---

title: Language learning platform using relevant and contextual content
abstract: A method and system for displaying translated text for language learning having content in a first language and a translation thereof in a second language. A user can hover over the content with a mouse to display a popup box containing a content component in the second language corresponding to a content component in the first language. The content components are highlighted as the user hovers over them with the mouse to identify corresponding content components between the first language and the second language. Also provided is an electronic flashcard generated by the user from the content.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09229928&OS=09229928&RS=09229928
owner: NULU, Inc.
number: 09229928
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130313
---
The present application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 610 374 filed on Mar. 13 2012 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety for all purposes.

The systems and methods of the disclosure relate to providing an educational environment for learning foreign languages. In particular but not by way of limitation the disclosure relates to systems and methods that enable user interaction with content in two or more languages.

Tools and aids for learning a foreign language are numerous and well known in he art. Translation systems for websites are also known in the art such as U.S. Pat. No. 5 765 131 directed to Language Translation System and Method to Stentiford et al. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 784 727 directed to Dynamic Language Translation of Web Site Content to Travleso et al. and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 020 496 directed to Method and System for Providing Translated Dynamic Web Page Content to Jurach et al.

Such automatic website translation systems rely on computer translations on the fly and are generally known in the art to be inaccurate or otherwise unreliable. Computer based translations such as the ones referenced above generally are inadequate in distinguishing and translating nuances of a language that a human would otherwise readily grasp.

Popup language translations for computers are also known in the art as described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 481 635 directed to Dynamic Screentip Language Translation to Fitzpatrick et al. Also in the art there exists services such as Voxy http www.voxy.com which focuses primarily on machine translations of small fragments of content. However none of these tools are believed to provide the immersion necessary to facilitate comprehensive and expeditious language learning.

Systems and methods described herein are directed to solving a deficiency in the art of language learning. Such deficiencies include the lack of immersion into the language sought to be learned or inadequate context. The disclosed method contemplates that a user read written content such as a news article in a first language. The content can be sourced from any number of content sources such as a news outlet or other Internet websites. The content is then typically translated by a human translator into translated content in a second language. The translated content is stored alongside the content initially hidden from the user. In addition the translator can create digital audio tracks of the translated content and this audio content can also be stored alongside the other content and be available to the user upon request e.g. clicking on an audio icon .

The user typically has an input device such as a mouse or touchscreen to identify a content component in the first language to be displayed in the second language wherein the content component is a word or a phrase. A popup box may appear above or below the news article with the sentence translated in the second language. Within the popup box the previously identified content component in the second language is highlighted in and the word or phrase that the user has identified is also highlighted to show the correspondence between the two languages and to provide a contextual translation. Alternatively the translation may appear in a fixed box below the text.

In another aspect the systems and methods disclosed herein are also directed to the creation and utilization of electronic flashcards to further language learning. Within the content the user may use the input device to click onto the content component to identify what is to be kept in a flashcard database. The user may access the previously stored electronic flashcard and review the content component in the first language compared to the second language. The user can then designate the degree of difficulty of the content component on the electronic flashcard thereby allowing the program to know how often to show the user said electronic flashcard.

Further the systems and methods disclosed herein can also be directed to a social network allowing users to communicate with other language learners including through platforms like Facebook. Users may practice the language skills they have acquired by discussing the content they have read in a language exchange style discussion with anyone including users who have read the same content and or listened to related audio of the same content. This language exchange style discussion can lead to more efficient and faster learning of a target language.

Finally the systems and methods disclosed herein can also be directed to increasing user engagement in language learning through predicting and recommending content a user may prefer to read or hear as well as recommending other language learners with whom the user may prefer to interact. Such a recommendation system can be used to ensure that users get content that is interesting to them based on what they interact with in one embodiment taking into account how users who have interacted with similar sets of content interacted with the rest of the content in the system.

An exemplary method in accordance with the disclosure includes receiving first content information in a first language. The first content information includes at least one paragraph the at least one paragraph includes at least one sentence and the at least one sentence includes a first plurality of words. The method further includes receiving input specifying a phrase included within the first content information where the phrase includes ones of the first plurality words receiving a translated phrase corresponding to the phrase the translated phrase comprising a second plurality of words in a second language storing within a memory correspondence information mapping one or more of the second plurality of words to one or more of the first plurality of words and storing within the memory the first content information and the translated phrase in association with the correspondence information so as to form dual language content associated with the first content information.

An exemplary method of presenting dual language content in accordance with the disclosure includes retrieving digital content from a memory the digital content including textual information in a first language. The method further includes rendering by a display of a device an image of the digital content in the first language receiving from an input device coupled to the display an indication that a specified portion of the textual information is to be displayed in a second language the specified portion comprising at least one of a word within a phrase and the phrase retrieving from the memory correspondence information stored in association with the specified portion the correspondence information identifying at least a translated phrase in a second language corresponding to the specified portion and rendering an image of the translated phrase on the display in proximity to the specified portion. The correspondence information includes information mapping one or more of a plurality of words in the translated phrase to respective one or more words in the specified portion of the digital content.

Another exemplary method in accordance with the disclosure includes retrieving digital content from a memory the digital content comprising textual information in a first language rendering by a display device an image of the digital content in the first language receiving from an input device an indication that a specified portion of the textual information is to be included in a flashcard database and retrieving from the memory correspondence information stored in association with the specified portion. The correspondence information indicates a translated phrase in a second language corresponding to the specified portion and stored in the memory in association with the correspondence information. The method further includes retrieving from the memory and based on the correspondence information translation information representing the translated phrase in the second language and storing in a flashcard database first information representing the specified portion in the first language and the translation information. The correspondence information includes first correspondence information identifying a paragraph number and a sentence number in the paragraph to which the translated phrase corresponds and second correspondence information mapping one or more of a plurality of words in the translated phrase to respective one or more words in the specified portion of the digital content.

Another exemplary method in accordance with the disclosure includes rendering on a display device content in a first language receiving user input indicating that a specified portion of the content is to be displayed in a second language retrieving correspondence information stored in association with the specified portion retrieving from a memory and based upon the correspondence information a translated content portion in the second language and rendering on the display device the translated content portion in proximity to the specified portion.

Another exemplary method in accordance with the disclosure includes rendering on the display device at least one question regarding the content in the first language receiving a user input response to the at least one question and rendering on the display device additional content in the first language wherein the additional content is of a difficulty level determined based on correctness of the user input response to the at least one question.

Yet another exemplary method in accordance with the disclosure includes rendering on a display device content in a first language receiving user input indicating that a specified portion of the content is to be included within a flashcard database retrieving correspondence information stored in association with the specified portion retrieving from a memory and based upon the correspondence information a translated content portion in a second language and storing in the flashcard database flashcard information representative of the specified portion and the translated content portion.

An exemplary system in accordance with the disclosure includes memory and a processor coupled to the memory. The processor is configured to receive first content information in a first language the first content information including at least one paragraph the at least one paragraph comprising at least one sentence the at least one sentence comprising a first plurality of words receive input specifying a phrase included within the first content information wherein the phrase includes ones of the first plurality words receive a translated phrase corresponding to the phrase the translated phrase comprising a second plurality of words in a second language store within the memory correspondence information mapping one or more of the second plurality of words to one or more of the first plurality of words and store within the memory the first content information and the translated phrase in association with the correspondence information so as to form dual language content associated with the first content information.

Another exemplary system in accordance with the disclosure includes memory and a processor coupled to the memory. The processor is configured to retrieve digital content from the memory the digital content comprising textual information in a first language cause a display of a device to render an image of the digital content in the first language receive from an input device coupled to the display an indication that a specified portion of the textual information is to be displayed in a second language the specified portion comprising at least one of a word within a phrase and the phrase retrieve from the memory correspondence information stored in association with the specified portion the correspondence information identifying at least a translated phrase in a second language corresponding to the specified portion and cause the display to render an image of the translated phrase in proximity to the specified portion. The correspondence information includes information mapping one or more of a plurality of words in the translated phrase to respective one or more words in the specified portion of the digital content.

Another exemplary system includes a memory and a processor coupled to the memory. The processor is configured to retrieve digital content from the memory the digital content comprising textual information in a first language cause a display device to render an image of the digital content in the first language receive from an input device an indication that a specified portion of the textual information is to be included in a flashcard database retrieve from the memory correspondence information stored in association with the specified portion the correspondence information indicating a translated phrase in a second language corresponding to the specified portion and stored in the memory in association with the correspondence information retrieve from the memory and based on the correspondence information translation information representing the translated phrase in the second language and store in a flashcard database first information representing the specified portion in the first language and the translation information. The correspondence information includes first correspondence information identifying a paragraph number and a sentence number in the paragraph to which the translated phrase corresponds and second correspondence information mapping one or more of a plurality of words in the translated phrase to respective one or more words in the specified portion of the digital content.

Another exemplary system in accordance with the disclosure includes a memory and a processor coupled to the memory. The processor is configured to cause a display device to render content in a first language receive user input indicating that a specified portion of the content is to be displayed in a second language retrieve correspondence information stored in association with the specified portion retrieve from the memory and based upon the correspondence information a translated content portion in the second language and cause the display device to render the translated content portion in proximity to the specified portion.

Yet another system in accordance with the disclosure includes a memory and a processor coupled to the memory. The processor is configured to cause a display device to render content in a first language receive user input indicating that a specified portion of the content is to be included within a flashcard database retrieve correspondence information stored in association with the specified portion retrieve from the memory and based upon the correspondence information a translated content portion in a second language and store in the flashcard database flashcard information representative of the specified portion and the translated content portion.

A non transient computer readable medium in accordance with the disclosure stores program code which when executed by a processor causes the processor to cause a display device to render content in a first language receive user input indicating that a specified portion of the content is to be displayed in a second language retrieve correspondence information stored in association with the specified portion retrieve from the memory and based upon the correspondence information a translated content portion in the second language and cause the display device to render the translated content portion in proximity to the specified portion.

Yet another non transient computer readable medium in accordance with the disclosure stores program code which when executed by a processor causes the processor to cause a display device to render content in a first language receive user input indicating that a specified portion of the content is to be included within a flashcard database retrieve correspondence information stored in association with the specified portion retrieve from the memory and based upon the correspondence information a translated content portion in a second language and store in the flashcard database flashcard information representative of the specified portion and the translated content portion.

As is discussed below in one aspect the present disclosure relates to systems and methods that enable translators to create multiple representations of content in multiple languages and link translations of contextual phrases of the multiple representations to each other such that users can read content in a first language and selectively display a translation of the phrases in a second language. These systems and methods enable a user to learn a language by interacting with content e.g. a news article hereafter digital content rendered by a website. The content may be acquired through a content source which can provide written content such as blog posts entertainment media news articles educational texts technical papers or any type of digital information relating to any number of topics including but not limited to current events politics science or the media. In addition the digital content may be obtained from music videos songs and or other video and audio content by first creating transcribed text which is then translated into lyrics or a discussion in the case of a non music video or audio clip . This allows for better content based learning by allowing the user to become immersed in the first language through use of actual content that could be normally read by a native speaker of the first language.

The systems and methods also provide for a user to customize electronic flashcards to further language learning. Within the content the user may use the input device to click or tap onto the content component to identify what is to be kept in a flashcard database. The user may access the previously stored electronic flashcard and review the content component in the first language compared to the second language. The user can then designate the degree of difficulty experienced in recalling the content component in the second language thereby allowing the program to determine how often to show the user said electronic flashcard.

Before further describing various aspects and functionality of the language learning methods described herein it may be helpful to describe the general context and systems and devices on which embodiments may be implemented as shown in .

For example illustrates details of a system on which various embodiments may be implemented. System includes one or more typically many mobile user devices which may be netbooks smart phones personal digital assistants PDAs tablets or other similar or equivalent mobile devices. As shown in user device A is a smart phone and user device B is a tablet device each of which includes a client application which may be a customized application configured to utilize an operating system of the smart phone A or the tablet device B. The client application enables the smart phone A or the tablet device B to gain access to a central server system such as backend server system . In addition to mobile user devices the system includes non mobile devices . Such non mobile devices may include desktop or notebook computers for example. Non mobile user device uses a standardized web browser application such as the Internet Explorer Firefox or Chrome browsers. Each of user devices A B and non mobile device may communicate with the server system via connections with a network such as the Internet and or another network such as a cellular data network to server system .

Server system may include or be connected to one or more databases. The exemplary system includes a representations database a user database and a flashcard database . The representations database includes various representations of content such as news articles stories etc. The representations are generally dual language representations created using methods described below although in other embodiments the representations may be comprised of content corresponding to more than two languages. The dual language representations are each configured to display respective textual content in a first language and selectively display translated portions of the content upon request by a user using an input device such as a mouse or touch screen display. The representations for a particular news article or story can include individual representations for a plurality of first and second languages e.g. a first representation where the first language is English and correspondence information points to portions of a second representation in Spanish and the second representation where the first language is Spanish and correspondence information points to portions of the first representation in English and or to portions of a third representation in German .

In addition to storing multiple different first and second language representations the representations database may store multiple representations of a particular news article or story for a particular pair of languages in multiple complexities such as for example an easy representation and a difficult representation. The multiple level of difficulty representations may be prepared by a translator by removing content from a news article or story or by using simpler vocabulary and or sentence structures when translating the content.

The user database stores information regarding individual users of the system . The user information can include content preferences such as likes and dislikes that the user has selected. The user information can also include other users that the user has communicated with.

The flashcard database stores information representing the user selected flashcards that an individual user has previously created from the dual language representations that the user has previously read. Each user can access the previously created flashcards on a daily basis or more or less frequently in order to practice the first language. Details of an exemplary implementation of the flashcard method are described below.

Server system will generally include other data storage devices as well as associated hardware software memory peripheral interface devices and the like including modules to receive and store data and information receive and process input from user devices and associated browsers or client applications and receive and configure information from translators to create the dual language representations using the methods described below.

At user devices A and B the client application program may be downloaded and stored on the user device to allow customized access to data and information on the server system . The client application program is stored in memory . The memory can also store previously downloaded representations and user created flashcards. Alternately or in addition the standardized browser application as shown in non mobile user device may be provided to allow standardized web access and associated functionality in some implementations. Previously downloaded representations and previously created flashcards are stored in a database coupled to or included in the non mobile device .

Client application module may further include a user interface module configured to receive input from a user such as user selections search data or information or other information provided from a user. In addition the client application module may include a display interface module configured to provide output information to a user on a display device not shown of a user device such as an LCD or other display screen.

Additional interface modules may be included in server system either configured separate or integrated in functionality with other modules. For example a user may access the system through a user device interface which may be operated in conjunction with a client application executing on a user device and or a web browser. In addition a translator can access the backend server applications module via the user interface module in order to create the dual language representations of content. A display interface module provides data and graphics information to be displayed on a display device of a user device or a display device used by a translator.

The backend system applications module may comprise non transitory computer readable storage media such as memory devices or other storage components to store instructions for execution by computer processors. The instructions may be used to implement the various functions described subsequently herein.

Referring to a flowchart illustrating an exemplary process for creating dual language content in accordance with the disclosure is shown. The process can be performed by a central system such as the backend server systems or referred to collectively as the server system from herein . The process could also be performed on one of the mobile devices A or B using the client application or or by the non mobile device using the web browser . When being performed by one of the mobile devices A or B or by the non mobile device referred to collectively as user devices from herein information can be communicated to and from the backend server system or when a connection is available via the network .

The process starts at stage where a communication device e.g. one of the mobile devices a non mobile device such as the non mobile device or the server system or operating the client application receives digital content in a first language also referred to as the target language that a user is learning. The digital content comprises textual information or other media with which textual content may be associated such as the aforementioned songs music videos and other video clips in the first language. The textual information includes at least one paragraph. Each of the paragraphs includes at least one sentence and each sentence includes one or more phrases each phrase comprising one or more words.

At stage the content in the first target language is translated to a second language which is referred to as the source language. The second source language is typically a language that that a user speaks fluently or at least at a level higher than the user speaks the first target language. The content is translated by a translator typically a human and this translated content is received as input to the client application at the communication device. Similar to the content that is received at stage the translated content is made up of at least one paragraph wherein the at least one paragraph comprises at least one sentence. The at least one sentence is further broken down to a plurality of content components which can either be a word or a phrase. A word is a string of characters terminated by whitespace in most but not all languages and a phrase is a string of the words wherein the string need not necessarily be continuous within the context of a sentence. When the communication device is one of the mobile devices or the non mobile device the translated content is communicated to the server system and is stored within the representations database in association with a user account that is identified in the user database .

At stage the client application determines first correspondence information matching paragraphs and sentences between the original content in the first target language and the translated content in the second source language. The first correspondence information is typically simply a numerical index indicating the numerical order of appearance of paragraphs and sentences within each of the paragraphs between the contents of the first target and second source languages.

At stage the application receives second correspondence information input by the translator. The second correspondence information may for example map words within phrases from the first target language to the second source language. In contrast to the first correspondence information matching the paragraphs and sentences the second correspondence information is not a simple numerical order of appearance. This is due to the different grammatical constructs of different languages. For example in English adjectives often appear prior to a noun whereas in Spanish adjectives follow the noun.

Referring to there is shown a screen shot of a user interface screen usable to input the second correspondence information at stage . The screen shot shows a first sentence pair that includes a Spanish language sentence and a corresponding English language sentence. These sentences have been linked to each other via the first correspondence information determined at stage .

The translator selects one or more words in the Spanish sentence by highlighting the words using a mouse and cursor not shown or using a touch screen for example. In the example screen shot the translator has selected the words de Costa Rica in the Spanish sentence and the words Costa Rica s in the English sentence. After selecting both sets of words the translator activates a Match button in order to link the selected sets of words via with the second correspondence information. This second correspondence information includes a position in each sentence of the selected words. This second correspondence information is then stored in memory in association with the first correspondence information for the sentence pair which includes a paragraph number and a sentence number indicating the order of appearance.

The translator continues to select and match one or more words of the sentence in the first target language to one or more words of the sentence in the second source language until all the words are matched. An Unmatch button can be used to remove a matching correspondence between a set of already matched words in order to correct an error. A Clear button can be used to remove all matching correspondences for a pair of sentences or . The screenshot can illustrate different correspondences between a sentence pair using different colored highlights. An unmatched word is indicated by having no color or by having a designated color such as red for example.

In addition to matching words from one language to another at stage the translator also matches phrases from a sentence in the first target language to phrases in the sentence of the second source language. A sentence is made up of at least one phrase. This matching of phrases is also represented by the second correspondence information.

Upon matching all the words within phrases and all the phrases from the first target language to the second source language at stage the process continues to stage . At stage the client application stores the original content in the first target language the translated content in the second source language and the first and second correspondence information in a memory such as the representation database . This combination of content in two languages and the first and second correspondence information is referred to as a representation of the original content received at stage . This representation is referred to as a dual language representation of a piece of content. In one embodiment the representations are stored in a relational database which is described below.

By creating the dual language representation as described herein a user can read the original content in the first target language and then choose to see the translated content in the second source language by simply hovering a cursor over a word or phrase or by selecting using a touch screen. In one embodiment when the content component is hovered over with the mouse or selected with a touch screen the original content component in the first target language is highlighted and a popup box appears above the content component providing a translation of the content component in context of the sentence in the second source language. is a screenshot showing content in the first target language Spanish in this example and a popup box featuring a translated content in the second source language English in this example . The popup box appears in response to a cursor hovering over on or more words in a phase that corresponds to the translated phrase in the popup box . In this example the cursor is hovering over para in the Spanish content.

Presenting the popup box in the second source language above the content in the first target language allows the user to compare the text in the first target language to the text in the second source language. This allows users of varying levels of proficiency to use the same content to learn a language. The content can also be kept up to date at stage with current events or relevant information. Information can be obtained at stage from several sources including but not limited to social media and news media sources. Information can be determined to be relevant based on a popularity of a story across these social media and news media sources.

At decision block the translator indicates via an input device whether there are more languages to translate the original content into so as to form more representations. If the translator indicates that there are more languages the process continues back to stage to repeat the stages for a second source language. If the translator indicates that there are no more languages to translate the process terminates.

In addition to creating multiple representations for a given piece of content received at stage the process can be repeated multiple times for different difficulty levels associated with the same original content. For example the process can receive a linguistically simpler version or more complex version of the content at stage and repeat the process with the simpler or more complex version of the content. This allows for creation of a plurality of representations at different difficulty levels e.g. easy medium difficult . The different difficulty level versions of content can be created by a translator removing sentences portions of sentences or by substituting simpler vocabulary for more complex vocabulary. Other methods of creating multiple difficulty levels of content can also be used at stage .

The process is performed in one embodiment by a translator. The translation performed by a human translator will almost always be a better translation than a computer based translation provided through automated means. The human translator will be able to recognize and identify the nuances of the first target and second source languages allowing the translation to be effective in language learning. In other embodiments a machine translator can be used for at least a part of the process .

The process is exemplary only and modifications to the process can be made without departing from the scope of the methods described herein. For example stages may be omitted added or rearranged.

As discussed above in reference to stage of the process the dual language representation including content in the first target language translated content in the second source language and the first and second correspondence information is stored in a relational database. Referring to an entity relationship diagram ERD is shown. The ERD uses crow s foot notation. The ERD illustrates an exemplary relational database that is defined by the following database schema code 

The ERD shows a series of related tables including a story table a story representation table a paragraph table a sentence table a sentence word table and a phrase table . The story table includes an id variable that stores a numerical identifier for each piece of content i.e. a story that uniquely identifies a single piece of content. The story table also includes for each unique story id a created at variable storing the date and time in DATETIME format that the story was first created an updated at variable storing the date and time the story was last modified or updated a publish at variable storing the date and time the story was first published to the website of the backend server or a source id variable storing a numerical identifier indicating a source from which the story was obtained and a category id variable storing a numerical identifier indicating a category in which the story is classified.

A crow s foot association indicates that one and only one story is linked to one or more representations of that story in the story representations table . This indicates that each unique story in the story table can be related to multiple dual language representations and level of difficulty representations identified in the story representation table . Each representation in the representation table is identified by a representation id variable. Each representation is also characterized by a created at and an updated at variable. A story id variable indicates which story in the story table a particular representation is related to. A locale id variable indicates a language regional dialect that the representation is written. A difficulty variable indicates to which of a plurality of difficulty levels e.g. easy and difficult a representation is classified. A title id variable relates each representation to an index of titles.

The representation table is linked by a one and only one to one or more association to the paragraph table . This association indicates that each representation includes one or more paragraphs where each paragraph is identified by a paragraph id variable in the paragraph table . Some representations e.g. easy representations may be missing some of the paragraphs that are in the original story and or the difficult representation of the original story. The paragraphs are each characterized by a paragraph id identifier a created at variable and an updated at variable. In addition each paragraph is indicated to be related to a particular representation in the story representation table by a representation id variable. Further a numerical order of appearance of the paragraph within the representation is identified by a position variable.

The paragraph table is linked by a one or none to one or more association to the sentence table . This association indicates that each sentence in the sentence table is related to one or none of the paragraphs as indicated by a paragraph id variable in the sentence table . Some sentences may be omitted from one representation but not another. For example a difficult representation may include more sentences in a given paragraph at a given location than an easy representation. The sentences are each characterized by a paragraph id identifier indicating to which paragraph in the paragraph table a sentence belongs and a position variable in the sentence table indicates a numerical order of appearance of the sentence in the indicated paragraph. The sentences are also characterized by a created at variable and an updated at variable. Further a numerical order of appearance of the paragraph within the representation is identified by a position variable.

The sentence table is linked by a one and only one to one or more association to the sentence words table . This association indicates that each sentence in the sentence table is related to one or more words in the sentence words table . Different sentences in the sentence table can be related to the same words in the sentence words table . Each word in the sentence word table is identified by a word id variable. Each word is also characterized by a created at and an updated at variable. The letters or text of each unique word is stored in a text variable. Each word is also related to a unique sentence and a unique phrase in the phrases table as indicated by a sentence id variable and a phrase id variable respectively.

The sentence words table is linked by a one or more to one and only one association to the phrase table . This association indicates that each phrase as indicated by the phrase id variable in the sentence word table and an id variable in the phrase table includes one or more words in the sentence words table . Each phrase is also characterized by a created at variable and an updated at variable.

The sentence table is also linked to the story representation table by a one and only one to one or more association . This association indicates that one or more story representation in the story representation table is related to one and only one sentence in the sentence table . This association links the title id variable in the story representations table to one sentence in the sentence table the one sentence being the title of the one or more representations. For example an original story in the story table may be related to multiple representations multiple first target and second source language pairs and or multiple difficulty levels in the story representations table and each of the multiple representations can be related to the same title sentence or a different title sentence in the sentence table .

Each word of the content and the translated content has an index and a position in the sentence words table . The index and the position can be transformed into a hash and stored in a hashmap. The index and the position of the word can be extrapolated from the hash stored in the hashmap. The client application identifies specific translations using the first and second correspondence information determined at stage and input by the translator at stage of the process . Whether identified individually or as a group the hashes are stored in the hashmap and placed in the phrase table as a phrase hash. The phrase hash identifies the content component taking into account it may be possible that not all of the words within the content component are in an uninterrupted string of words.

The plurality of matches input by the translator using the user interface shown in the screenshot of are maintained as part of the hashmap with corresponding hashes being related. This method allows content components that appear in different parts of the sentence in the original text and the translation to be matched.

The user can modify their preferences as to what is displayed in the popup box. The user may additionally specify whether just the content components are displayed or whether a definition of the content component in the first target language is displayed in the first target language to provide a more advanced approach to language learning.

Examples of different representations of the same content story are shown in . shows a first representation of a story where the first target language is English and the second source language is Spanish. A second representation is shown where the first target language is Spanish and the second source language is English. In the first representation a popup box shows a sentence with the word com n highlighted in response to a user positioning a cursor over the corresponding English word regular. The second representation shows a popup box that lists an English version of the sentence with the word regular highlighted in response to the user positioning a cursor over the Spanish word com n. 

At stage an image of the retrieved content in the first target language is rendered on a display of the communication device that retrieved the content. At stage the client application receives an indication of input from the user of the communication device specifying a portion of the content to display in the second source language. As discussed above the input can be a cursor hovering over a word or phrase or the input can be a tap on a touch screen display.

Upon receiving the indication at stage the client application at stage retrieves correspondence information stored in a relational database such as the relational database illustrated in and discussed above in association with the specified portion of the content. At stage the client application retrieves a translated portion of content in the second source language from memory storing the relational database based on the correspondence information.

At stage the client application causes a rendering of the translated portion to be displayed on the display in proximity to the specified portion of the primary content. The stages to are repeated until the user is finished reading the content and discards the dual language content.

The process is exemplary only and modifications to the process can be made without departing from the scope of the methods described herein. For example stages may be omitted added or rearranged.

The present system also provides a user with an opportunity to create an electronic flashcard based on the content components in the content for improved language based assessment. Turning now to there is shown a flowchart illustrating an exemplary process for utilizing dual language content created by the process of to create flashcards. The process can be performed on one of the mobile devices using the client application or by the non mobile device using the web browser . The process starts at stage where the client application retrieves a dual language content with primary text the text displayed first in a first target language and translated text in a second source language. The dual language content can be retrieved from the representations database via the backend server . The dual language content can be one of a plurality of representations that can include different target and source languages as well as different difficulty levels. The dual language content could also be retrieved from memory of one of the mobile devices or from the database of the non mobile device .

At stage an image of the retrieved content in the first target language is rendered on a display of the communication device that retrieved the content. At stage the client application receives an indication of input from the user of the communication device specifying a portion of the content to include as a new flashcard in a flashcard database. The input can be a cursor hovering over a word or phrase accompanied by a right click command of a mouse or the input can be a tap on a touch screen display. Alternatively a variety of gestures could be used by a user to add flashcards to a deck. For example a user could hold down their finger on a touch screen over a word or phrase the content component for an extended period of time. If the extended period of time exceeds a threshold time the client application causes a button with a label such as Add Flashcard to appear immediately above the content component. The user could then tap the Add Flashcard button in order to create the flashcard with the associated phrase.

Upon receiving the indication at stage the client application retrieves correspondence information stored in a relational database such as the relational database illustrated in in association with the specified portion of the content. At stage the client application retrieves a translated portion of content in the second source language from memory storing the relational database based on the correspondence information. Alternatively the client application could simply retrieve the hash of the content corresponding to the correspondence information that is stored in the relational database.

At stage the client application stores information representing the specified portion in the first target language and the translated portion in the second source language in memory e.g. the flashcard database the memory or the database . The stored information can be the actual text of the specified and translated portions or a hash code linking the portions in the relational database as discussed above. The data stored in the flashcard database is stored in association with an identifier identifying a user in the user database . In this way the user can later retrieve any flashcards that they have previously created using the process in order to practice learning.

The process is exemplary only and modifications to the process can be made without departing from the scope of the methods described herein. For example stages may be omitted added or rearranged.

The flashcard database can be any type of computer database such as a SQL database so long as its contents are accessible by the user in some manner. The user can then use the electronic flashcard to test his or her knowledge about the key word or phrase identified previously.

The present electronic flashcard allows the user to create the electronic flashcard from existing content. Alternatively the user can create the electronic flashcard independently of the content. The electronic flashcard can not only contain the content component and its translation but also the sentence that originally contained the content component and its translation to provide context to the user. In addition the electronic flashcard can contain a link to audio that has been created and stored in association with the sentence that appears in the flashcard. The flashcard is stored with correspondence information that points to a phrase id in a phrase table in a relational database and the phrase id is stored with correspondence information that points to the sentence in a sentence table. The sentence includes correspondence information that points to the audio.

The screenshot also shows input buttons and that the user uses to rate the ease or difficulty in understanding the sentence in the screenshot . The level of difficulty buttons include a very easy button an easy button a hard button and a very hard button .

At stage the client application causes a display to render an image of one of the flashcards that is scheduled for display. The rendering of the flashcard initially renders a portion of content in the first target language see that a user is learning without displaying the second source language that the user reads fluently. At stage the client application receives an indication of an input by the user the input requesting display of a translation in the second source language. At stage the client application causes rendering of the translation in the second source language on the display. At stage the client application receives an indication of a difficulty of understanding input by the user. The electronic flashcard can be graded by the user for example on a scale of 1 to 4 based on its difficulty according to the user 1 being very hard 2 being hard 3 being easy and 4 being very easy. Alternatively the difficulty can be calculated based on the amount of time it takes for the user to identify that the electronic flashcard is answered.

The difficulty rating then allows repeat use of the electronic flashcard to be scaled either more frequently or less frequently based on the difficulty according to the user. At stage the client application stores an indication of the difficulty of understanding in the flashcard database or the memory or the database . The client application uses the difficulty of understanding information to determine a due date to display the current flashcard again.

The electronic flashcard is assigned a due date interval I n derived from the number of times a user has reviewed a given electronic flashcard and the difficulty the user had in understanding the flashcard as indicated by the difficulty measure provided by the user. By way of example if the electronic flashcard has 0 or 1 repetitions the due date is adjusted by 1 day. If there are 2 repetitions the due date is adjusted by 6 days. If there are greater than 2 repetitions an easiness factor EF or E Factor can be calculated based on the following recursive equation wherein the equation and associated default values are by way of example and not limiting the scope of the claimed method 2 1 0.1 5 0.08 5 0.02 

The stages to of the process are repeated for each flashcard in the flashcard database that is associated with the user and is due for display the day that the process is being executed. The process is exemplary only and modifications to the process can be made without departing from the scope of the methods described herein. For example stages may be omitted added or rearranged.

The electronic flashcard created by the process and displayed by the process can be used in a number of modes depending on how the user is studying the first target language. A first mode provides for a contextual translation between the first target language and the second source language. The contextual translation includes a word or phrase within the context of the sentence which allows the user to determine the context of the translated word to better understand what the word means in light of the entire sentence as described above. A second mode provides for a word or phrasal translation from the first target language to the second source language without translations of the rest of the sentence surrounding the word or phrase. The word or phrasal translation limits the translation to just the content component to make the user s experience more challenging. A third mode provides for an explanation of select words or phrases in the first target language. Both the explanation and the word would be of the first target language to allow the user to learn the word while in the context of the first target language as a whole. The third mode allows for a deeper immersion into the first target language that cannot be achieved by simple word to word language translations.

A further aspect of the language learning systems and methods described herein is presentation of tests of comprehension and understanding. shows three screenshots presented to a user as part of a test of comprehension after the user has read and or listened to content created by the process of . A screenshot includes a question area that presents a question regarding content contained in a dual language content . A screenshot shows a user selected multiple choice answer which is correct and a notification reading Correcto or the associated phrase in the user s preferred interface locale is displayed in the question area . In this example the question and the notification are both in the targeted language that the user is learning. A screenshot shows an incorrect answer and an explanation as to why the answer was incorrect. Again the question and the explanation are in the targeted language.

The language learning system and methods described herein can provide the user with a history of progress in the tests of comprehension that the user has completed. shows a screenshot that shows a view of a history of results of tests of comprehension completed by a user. The screenshot shows a user ID and a number of tests that the user has completed 10 tests in this example . For each of the completed tests the screenshot shows a title of the content that a test is associated with a percentage of correct answers a number of questions in the test a date of the test and a fraction showing the number of correct answers and the number of questions answered. In the first test shown in the screenshot the user answered only 2 out of 5 questions and got only 1 of the two answered questions correct thereby resulting in a percentage of 20 and a fraction of where the fraction is the number of correct responses divided by the total responses. The language learning system and methods described herein can suggest content to the user with a prescribed difficulty level where the difficulty level is determined based on the performance history of the user.

A further aspect of the language learning systems and methods described herein involves third party websites that utilize the dual language content created by the process of . shows an exemplary third party website which includes embedded code configured to allow a viewer of the website to utilize dual language content using the process of . A third party publisher can provide the dual language content created using the process of on its own website through means of embedded content retrieved from the backend server for example through an IFRAME. A publisher can communicate content to be transformed into dual language content to the backend server through an application programming interface API or other means such as email communication. The content can be transformed at the backend server into multiple language representations audio and other features described herein. A publisher may then embed code in its website that will enable a user of its website to view the publisher s content with all of the support features as described in reference to through means of embedded content. From a user s perspective the publisher s content can be used for language learning through an embedded version of the systems and methods described herein on the publisher s website.

A further aspect of the language learning systems and methods described herein is a social network for connecting with others learning the same language including use of a platform such as for example Facebook. A user may interact with friends and others learning the foreign language through the same content. This will allow the program to better recommend content for users to study as well as act as a learning aid to keep the user engaged through producing content in the user s target language.

Finally another aspect of the language learning systems and methods described herein is the incorporation of algorithms to suggest content for a user based on the user s preferences and skill levels as determined by prior user usage of the program. These content suggestion algorithms can incorporate machine learning classification techniques to help classify content effectively across a wide set of users. For example Support Vector Machines could be used to classify content as to how likely a user would be to interact with the content to spend time reading and listening to a story for example . An algorithm can be produced which uses histories of other users as training data. The algorithm can then analyze the current user s reading history as a dataset to be classified. The algorithm can then determine how probable a user would be to spend time reading and listening to a particular novel story. Further the program will be able to incorporate algorithms to suggest other language learners either learners targeting the same language as a user or native speakers of the user s target language with whom the language learner may want to interact based on attributes of the other language learners. These attributes include users skill level the types of content they read most often and other attributes of their user profile within the system including demographic attributes.

Specific details are given in the above description to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments. However it is understood that the embodiments may be practiced without these specific details. For example circuits may be shown in block diagrams in order not to obscure the embodiments in unnecessary detail. In other instances well known circuits processes algorithms structures and techniques may be shown without unnecessary detail in order to avoid obscuring the embodiments.

Implementation of the techniques blocks steps and means described above may be done in various ways. For example these techniques blocks steps and means may be implemented in hardware software or a combination thereof. For a hardware implementation the processing units may be implemented within one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs digital signal processors DSPs digital signal processing devices DSPDs programmable logic devices PLDs field programmable gate arrays FPGAs processors controllers micro controllers microprocessors other electronic units designed to perform the functions described above and or a combination thereof.

Also it is noted that the embodiments may be described as a process which is depicted as a flowchart a flow diagram a data flow diagram a structure diagram or a block diagram. Although a flowchart may describe the operations as a sequential process many of the operations can be performed in parallel or concurrently. In addition the order of the operations may be re arranged. A process is terminated when its operations are completed but could have additional steps not included in the figure. A process may correspond to a method a function a procedure a subroutine a subprogram etc. When a process corresponds to a function its termination corresponds to a return of the function to the calling function or the main function.

Furthermore embodiments may be implemented by hardware software scripting languages firmware middleware microcode hardware description languages and or any combination thereof. When implemented in software firmware middleware scripting language and or microcode the program code or code segments to perform the necessary tasks may be stored in a machine readable medium such as a storage medium. A code segment or machine executable instruction may represent a procedure a function a subprogram a program a routine a subroutine a module a software package a script a class or any combination of instructions data structures and or program statements. A code segment may be coupled to another code segment or a hardware circuit by passing and or receiving information data arguments parameters and or memory contents. Information arguments parameters data etc. may be passed forwarded or transmitted via any suitable means including memory sharing message passing token passing network transmission etc.

For a firmware and or software implementation the methodologies may be implemented with modules e.g. procedures functions and so on that perform the functions described herein. Any machine readable medium tangibly embodying instructions may be used in implementing the methodologies described herein. For example software codes may be stored in a memory. Memory may be implemented within the processor or external to the processor. As used herein the term memory refers to any type of long term short term volatile nonvolatile or other storage medium and is not to be limited to any particular type of memory or number of memories or type of media upon which memory is stored.

Moreover as disclosed herein the term storage medium may represent one or more memories for storing data including read only memory ROM random access memory RAM magnetic RAM core memory magnetic disk storage mediums optical storage mediums flash memory devices and or other machine readable mediums for storing information. The term machine readable medium includes but is not limited to portable or fixed storage devices optical storage devices wireless channels and or various other storage mediums capable of storing that contain or carry instruction s and or data.

Many alterations and modifications may be made by those having ordinary skill in the art without departing from the spirit and scope of the language learning systems and methods described herein. Therefore it must be understood that the illustrated embodiments have been set forth only for the purposes of example and that it should not be taken as limiting the following claims. For example notwithstanding the fact that the elements of a claim are set forth below in a certain combination it must be expressly understood that the invention includes other combinations of fewer more or different elements which are disclosed in above even when not initially claimed in such combinations.

Insubstantial changes from the claimed subject matter as viewed by a person with ordinary skill in the art now known or later devised are expressly contemplated as being equivalently within the scope of the claims. Therefore obvious substitutions now or later known to one with ordinary skill in the art are defined to be within the scope of the defined elements.

While the particular Method and System for Displaying Translated Text for Language Learning as herein shown and disclosed in detail is fully capable of obtaining the objects and providing the advantages herein before stated it is to be understood that it is merely illustrative of the presently preferred embodiments of the invention and that no limitations are intended to the details of construction or design herein shown other than as described in the appended claims to be added upon conversion .

