---

title: One motor finger mechanism
abstract: A mechanical finger comprises a plurality of phalanges coupled to a single actuator using a kinematic linkage and a differential linkage arranged in parallel. The mechanical finger is capable of exhibiting consistent predictable motion when moving in free space or when contacting an object at the fingertip, and of curling in order to conform to an object when the contact is at other locations on the finger.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09211200&OS=09211200&RS=09211200
owner: HDT Expeditionary Systems, Inc.
number: 09211200
owner_city: Solon
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130624
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 965 362 filed Dec. 10 2010 now assigned U.S. Pat. No. 8 470 051 which claims priority from and benefit of the filing date of U.S. provisional application Ser. No. 61 286 345 filed Dec. 14 2009 and the entire disclosure of each of said prior applications is hereby expressly incorporated by reference into the present specification.

This invention was made with government support under Contract No. N66001 06 C8005 awarded by Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency. The government has certain rights in the invention.

A mechanical finger refers to an elongated articulating mechanical appendage. Like a human finger a mechanical finger has one end joined to a structure that acts as a base and an opposite end that is not anchored or connected. A mechanical finger used for grasping typically has two or more rigid sections and preferably at least three connected end to end by articulating joints. Terminology used to describe the anatomy of a human finger is used to describe a mechanical finger. As in the human finger each section of the finger is referred to as a phalanx. A finger extends from a base and is comprised of at least two and preferably three phalanges joined end to end by pivoting or articulating joints. A first articulating joint joins a proximal phalanx to a base such as a palm of a hand. A second articulating joint joins the proximal phalanx to an intermediate or middle phalanx and a third articulating joint joins the intermediate phalanx to a distal phalanx. The first joint is referred to as the metacarpophalangeal MCP joint the second as the proximal interphalangeal PIP joint and the third as the distal interphalengeal DIP joint.

In a mechanical finger the phalanges are coupled to one or more motors to cause flexion and extension of the finger. When using a kinematic mechanism for coupling a single motor to the phalanges the position of the actuator fully determines the position of the joints but the torque at each joint is unknown. With a differential mechanism the torque at the actuator determines the torque at each of the driven joints but neither the velocity nor the position of the individual joints are specified by the actuator velocity or position alone. A kinematic mechanism produces consistent predictable motion of the finger joints but it does not allow the finger to curl around an object. Differential mechanisms allow curling and grasping but often deviate from the desired motion due to forces at the fingertip causing buckling or due to friction in the joints causing undesirable curling behavior when not conforming.

According to one aspect of an exemplary embodiment of a mechanical finger comprising at least two phalanges driven by a single actuator and a differential transmits torque in parallel from the actuator to the MCP joint and the PIP joint.

According to another aspect the mechanical finger further includes a variable stop that limits rotation of the PIP joint based on the angle of rotation of the MCP joint. Such a mechanical finger is capable of exhibiting consistent predictable motion when moving in free space or when contacting an object at the fingertip and curling in order to conform to an object when the contact is at other locations on the finger.

The illustrated examples of mechanical finger comprise at least a proximal phalanx a medial or middle phalanx and in the embodiments of a distal phalanx . Phalanx refers to an elongated rigid section of the finger and phalanges to multiple sections of the finger. The phalanges are sometimes also referred to herein as first second and third sections respectively of the mechanical finger. Articulating joints which are not expressly indicated in the figure permit joined phalanges to pivot with respect to each other around an axis of the joint. The X axis of the figure represents the angle of extension and flexion of the phalanges relative to each other and to a reference ground . A greater angle indicates flexion of the finger and a smaller angle indicates extension of the finger. The length of arrow represents the angle designated by the variable between the proximal phalanx and a ground . Similarly the lengths of arrows and represent the relative angles between the proximal phalanx and the middle phalanx and between the middle phalanx and the distal phalanx respectively. These angles are designated in the figure by the variables and respectively.

The angular position and torque transmitted by an output of a single actuator or drive which output is represented by line controls the flexion and extension of the finger. Any type of suitable motor can power the actuator or drive. The type of the motor will depend on the application. The angular position of the output is represented by line and is designated by the variable . Torque applied to an object by a joint is represented as a linear force in the figure. The torque delivered by the output of the drive is represented by line . Variable Trepresents the magnitude of the torque from a motor connected to the drive. Note that the motor is not expressly illustrated in the figures. Torque on the metacarpophalangeal MCP joint not shown designated T which is generated by force applied to the proximal phalanx is represented by line . Similarly torque on the proximal interphalangeal PIP joint not shown is designated Tand is represented by line . Torque on the distal interphalangeal DIP joint not shown is designated Tand is represented by line .

A hybrid mechanism comprising a kinematic linkage and differential enables conformal grasping by the finger due to the differential but at the same time curling behavior can be precisely defined during application of forces to the distal phalanx only. In the examples illustrated by the schematics of a differential coupled to ground applies the torque Tfrom the motor to the proximal phalanx . The differential also applies the torque to linkage in the embodiments of B D or to medial phalanx in the two phalanx embodiment of or to a second differential in the embodiment of . The differential couples the drive output with the MCP joint and the PIP joint. Thus the drive applies torque to both the PIP and MCP joints in the embodiments of and E. In the embodiment of the combination of differential and differential applies torque applied to the MCP PIP and DIP joints.

Linkage in B and E functions as a kinematic linkage coupling the motion of PIP and DIP joints through an algebraic relationship. Linkage couples the PIP and DIP joints not shown so that both joints rotate together in a fixed relationship resulting in the medial and distal phalanges curling together in a natural curling motion. Movement of link relative to the proximal phalanx causes the middle phalanx to rotate about the PIP joint not shown and the distal phalanx to rotate with respect to the middle phalanx around the DIP joint not shown . This coupled curling relative to the proximal phalanx occurs even while motion of proximal phalanx is blocked such as when conformal grasping is occurring.

As shown in the embodiment illustrated only in the linkage may optionally include a compliant element in series with ground represented in the figure by spring . The compliant element is for example comprised of an elastic element that generates a spring force. The spring provides compliance for series elasticity and shock mitigation by allowing linkage to stretch a little when forces are applied to it. Elasticity and shock mitigation or dampening can be desirable in certain applications such a prosthetics. Movement of the linkage relative to the proximal phalanx such as during curling when the proximal phalanx is blocked also results in compression of a compliant member represented in the figure by a spring coupled between the proximal phalanx and the link . The spring acts to extend the PIP joint.

Referring only to in each of the illustrated examples a linkage adjusts the position of stop based on rotation of the MCP joint. Stop limits the range of motion of the PIP joint. The linkage sets the position of the hard stop based on the degree of rotation of the MCP joint from ground. Stopping rotation of the PIP joint limits extension of the medial phalanx as well as the distal phalanx beyond a predetermined angle relative to the proximal phalanx. The angle of rotation of the MCP joint is represented in the figure as the distance between ground and the proximal phalanx . The angle of the PIP joint relative to the phalanx is indicated by the length of line in the figure. The stop rotates with respect to the PIP joint as the MCP joint rotates and thus it depends on the angle of the MCP joint. When the proximal phalanges motion is not blocked the stop linkage enforces natural simultaneous curling of all three joints the MCP PIP and DIP joints. Linkage also enables the finger to resist forces on the distal phalanx without the differential allowing the PIP and DIP joints to straighten and the MCP joint to flex. Despite the system having a differential the posture of all three joints can thus remain fixed not against stops irrespective of the magnitude of a single external force applied to the distal phalanx.

Because of the use of a differential linkage to couple torque from the drive to the MCP and PIP joints the positions of the MCP and PIP joints are not fully determined by the position of the drive. For any given position of the drive output the finger mechanism has one free motion available which is an extension of the proximal phalanx and a flexing of the PIP and DIP joints. Preferably linkage dimensions and moment arms are chosen so that external forces applied to the finger distal to a point near the fingertip act to straighten the finger and forces applied proximal to this point act to curl the finger. The point at which the behavior changes from straightening to curling is referenced as the focal point of the differential. For external forces that act proximal to the focal point the MCP joint will extend and the PIP joint will flex.

Referring now to the linkage is also used to move the endpoint for return spring . The return spring acts to straighten the finger and to keep the mechanism pushed over to one side of this free range of motion. In the absence of any external forces pushing on the finger the return spring makes the finger act as though the differential is not present. The return spring can also provide some resistance to curling of the fingers when forces are applied to the dorsal side of the finger. Any compliance in the differential will result in some motion but this will occur in all three joints and is not due to the differential coupling.

As illustrated by the embodiment of adjustable stop for the PIP joint may be omitted for an application not requiring it or in which it is desirable not to have it. In this example the linkage controls only the position of the end point of the PIP joint return spring . The linkage thus becomes a spring centering linkage.

Referring now only to this embodiment of a mechanical finger includes a differential comprising differential linkage in place of a kinematic linkage. The differential couples the medial and distal phalanges using a differential relationship. This embodiment also optionally includes an adjustable stop for the DIP joint and return spring for placing a torque on the DIP joint that tends to extend the distal phalanx relative to the medial phalanx. Linkage is connected to proximal phalanx and adjusts the position of DIP stop based on the angle of rotation of the PIP joint. It also sets the endpoint of return spring .

Prosthetic finger is comprised of proximal phalanx medial phalanx and distal phalanx . Distal phalanx has been omitted from for purposes of illustration. Metacarpophalangeal MCP joint connects the finger to a base element for example an artificial palm or hand which is not shown. Proximal interphalangeal PIP joint joins the proximal and medial phalanges. Distal interphalangeal DIP joint joins the medial and distal phalanges.

In the embodiment shown in FIGS. and A C the proximal phalanx houses a differential linkage comprised of a connecting rod a pivot link and another connecting rod . Connecting rod is joined by pin to an arm extending from drive output and thus connects the output drive to one end of the pivot link . Although not shown a motor a stepper motor for example located in the base element rotates a drive input which in this example is pin which in turn rotates the drive output. Drive output is fixed to the pin . Pin joins the connecting rod to the spring. Connecting rod connects the other end of the pivot link to plate of the medial phalanx . Pin joins the pivot link to the connecting rod and pin joins the connecting rod to the plates and which comprise the primary structural elements for medial phalanx . The midpoint of the pivot link is fixed by pin to plates and . The pivot link will rotate within the proximal phalanx about the axis of pin as indicated by comparing when the drive output rotates. During flexion rotation of the drive output pulls the connecting rod which pulls on the pivot link which pulls on a second connecting rod which pulls on plates and of the medial phalanx.

In an alternate embodiment shown in the pivot link is replaced by an in series compliant element for giving the finger compliance for series elasticity and shock mitigation. In this example the compliant element comprises spring . Except for the added compliance and elasticity provided by the spring the differential with spring performs in a substantially similar manner as the pivot link . In another alternate embodiment shown in the pivot link and the connecting rods and are replaced with a linkage comprising a single connecting rod that is connected by pins and to the drive housing and plate of the medial phalanx . As can be seen in the figure the connecting rod must extend beyond the envelope of the proximal phalanx .

In each of the embodiments shown in plates and are the primary structural elements of medial phalanx . Plates and are the primary structural elements comprising the proximal phalanx . The differential linkage of and A C described above is housed between the plates. To these plates can be attached shells to give the proximal phalanx its desired exterior shape in the particular prosthetic or other application.

The pins used to join components in the differential linkage as well as in other linkages described below permit relative rotation of the joints that are joined. The location of pin is eccentric to the axis of the PIP joint to form a moment arm. The axis of the PIP joint is defined by pin which pivotally connects the clevis formed by plates and of the proximal phalanx with plates and of the medial phalanx. For a given rotation of the drive output either the MCP joint or the PIP joint can rotate. Rotation of the drive output not only applies torque to the MCP joint by causing the pivot link to push against pin but it also rotates the link causing the other part of the link to transmit a force that is applied to pin . Even if the proximal phalanx is blocked the link will nevertheless pivot and apply torque to the PIP joint. Thus torque from the drive is applied to both the MCP joint and the PIP joint.

Referring now to and the medial phalange houses a kinematic linkage for coupling rotation of the PIP joint to the DIP joint so that both curl simultaneously. The kinematic linkage comprises a connecting rod that spans between the proximal phalanx and the distal phalanx . Pin at a proximal end of the connecting rod engages hole on plate of the proximal phalanx. Pin on the distal end of the connecting rod engages hole in the distal phalanx. The distal phalanx is linked to the medial phalanx by a hinge formed by pins and . These pins cooperate respectively with a hole on plate and hole on plate of the medial phalanx and with holes and on opposite forks of a clevis extending from a shell forming distal phalanx . Although in this embodiment the linkage is comprised of a single connecting rod it could comprise multiple links. Furthermore a differential could be substituted for the kinematic linkage as described in connection with .

Referring now only to A and B the mechanical finger includes in this embodiment fixed stop that stops rotation of the PIP joint to prevent hyperextension of the medial phalanx. In this embodiment a movable PIP stop part rotates on the same axis as the PIP joint to reduce the permitted range of motion of the medial phalanx by limiting further rotation of the PIP joint based on the degree of flexion of the MCP joint. The centerline of pin defines the axis of rotation. The PIP stop part stop includes a stop portion that interferes with of plate of the medial phalanx to prevent the medial phalanx from extending. The position of the PIP stop part is based on the degree of rotation of the MCP joint and is accomplished in this embodiment by a linkage comprising connecting rod between a housing for a drive not shown and PIP stop part . The linkage may also be implemented using multiple links. A pin connects the distal end of connecting rod to arm portion of the PIP stop part . The proximal end of connecting rod is connected by another pin to the drive housing. As the MCP joint rotates due to flexion of the proximal phalanx the connecting rod pulls on the arm causing the PIP stop part to rotate in the same direction.

With the PIP stop linkage the medial phalanx is stopped either by the fixed stop on the proximal phalanx when the proximal phalanx is fully extended or by the movable stop of PIP stop part when the MCP joint is rotated during flexion of the proximal phalanx. If the MCP joint rotates then the PIP joint is forced to rotate as well by the PIP stop part. During free motion or when forces are applied to the fingertip movement of the PIP stop part helps to produce predictable curling like a fully kinematic mechanism.

In this embodiment the rotational position of the PIP stop part also controls the endpoint of the return spring . This spring which is normally compressed has the effect of extending the medial phalanx thus pushing the PIP joint against the PIP stop. If no external forces act on the finger the force generated by the spring causes the motion of the finger joints to be controlled by the PIP stop. If however an object blocks the motion of the proximal phalanx then the differential linkage continues applying torque to the PIP joint causing PIP and DIP joints to curl and further compressing the return spring.

The kinematic linkage for controlling the position of the PIP stop based on the motion of the MCP joint could also be used to limit or affect the motion of the PIP and DIP joints in other ways. For example the PIP stop can be removed permitting the linkage to be for controlling the end point of the return spring without limiting the motion of the PIP joint.

Although not necessary for operation of the finger as described above joint positions can be measured using potentiometers coupled with the joints and feedback to a controller for the drive motor in order to drive the finger to desired position subject to the limitations of being able to do so caused by the differential. Similarly strain gauges can be placed on for example the drive housing to measure torque on the finger and feed the measured torque back to a controller to change the impedance of the finger.

Although the particular components forming the linkages and the phalanges illustrated in have advantages when used in a prosthetic application the structures are intended to be illustrative only of the linkage mechanisms illustrated by . These components can be adapted or substituted for when implementing a differential mechanism in parallel with a kinematic mechanism in accordance with . For example linkages may be replaced with belts or cables or other passive mechanical mechanisms to achieve the same general purpose. Although it is common to use linkages for kinematic mechanisms and cables for differential mechanisms but either type can be used for either purpose. In addition to being implemented as a linkage as exemplified by the differentials described above may also be implemented using a belt or cable for example one linking the drive output to a drum or pulley at the PIP joint a gear train or a toggle.

Furthermore applications in which a mechanical finger in accordance with can be used include any type of application involving grasping and include many different types of robotic applications that are not limited to those attempting to mimic a human hand or prosthetic applications. For instance an anthropomorphic grip may have benefits in many diverse or unstructured or unforeseen contexts just as human hands are so successfully versatile including industrial grippers rovers or mobile robots entertainment home robots surgery or minimally invasive surgery massage patient transfer or stabilization and many others.

The foregoing description is of exemplary and preferred embodiments. The invention as defined by the appended claims is not limited to the described embodiments. Alterations and modifications to the disclosed embodiments may be made without departing from the invention. The meaning of the terms used in the claims are unless expressly stated otherwise intended to have ordinary and customary meaning and are not intended to be limited to the details of the illustrated structures or the disclosed embodiments.

