---

title: Systems and method for providing information to a recipient of a physical mail object
abstract: A system and method is provided for transmitting information over a wide area network, such as the Internet, in response to receiving at least a portion of mail data. In one embodiment of the present invention, information is stored in a memory. Mail data is then affixed to a mail object. The mail object is then manually delivered to a recipient. The mail data is then provided to a reception device. The reception device then uses the mail data to retrieve the information from a mail device in communication with the memory. In a preferred embodiment, the mail data includes data corresponding to the recipient of the mail object, and the information includes data on a content of the mail object (e.g., data that is included inside an envelope portion of the mail object).
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08910860&OS=08910860&RS=08910860
owner: 
number: 08910860
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20130321
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 560 306 filed Jul. 27 2012 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 297 515 filed Nov. 16 2011 and issued on Sep. 4 2012 as U.S. Pat. No. 8 260 629 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 454 052 filed May 11 2009 and issued on Dec. 6 2011 as U.S. Pat. No. 8 073 787 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 271 471 filed Oct. 15 2002 and issued on Oct. 19 2010 as U.S. Pat. No. 7 818 268 which claims the benefit pursuant to 35 U.S.C. 119 e of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 330 031 filed Oct. 16 2001 which applications are specifically incorporated herein in their entirety by reference.

The present invention relates to mail verification and more particularly to a system and method of authenticating at least one mail object by providing at least a portion of mail identification data over a wide area network such as the Internet in order to receive mail verification data.

Currently there are two ways to provided mail objects e.g. letters documents packages etc. to an end user that being electronically e.g. email etc. and through traditional mail services e.g. U.S. Postal Service Federal Express UPS Courier etc. . However because certain mail objects cannot be delivered electronically either because its impossible or impractical they are delivered using traditional mail services.

There are several problems with delivering mail objects through traditional mail services. First the mail object is typically secured inside packaging e.g. envelops boxes etc. before it is provided to the mail service. Thus neither the mail service nor the recipient is aware of the contents of the package until such package is opened by the recipient. This creates a problem in that hazardous mail objects i.e. Anthrax explosives etc. are not detected until they are opened by the recipient thus exposing the recipient to the hazardous material. It also creates a problem in that mail objects in general are not known until they are opened by the recipient thus making it difficult for the recipient or his designee to properly screen sort or avoid certain mail objects e.g. offensive mail annoying mail etc .

Second a manually delivered mail object is limited to a one way production of a finite set of information and or products. This becomes problematic when the sender of the mail object is interested in providing or receiving additional information e.g. product instructions warranty information etc. . Finally contents that can be delivered electronically e.g. advertisements software etc. are often included in mail objects that are delivered via traditional mail services. The drawback with this is that it increases the cost associated with producing and or delivering the mail object and increase the size of the mail object. For at least these reasons a need exists in the industry for a system and method of providing mail verification data in response to receiving mail ID data over a wide area network such as the Internet.

The present invention provides a system and method for providing mail verification data over a wide area network such as the Internet in response to receiving and authenticating at least a portion of mail identification ID data. Preferred embodiments of the present invention operate in accordance with at least one reception device a mail identification ID device a memory and a mail verification application adapted to communicate with the reception device over a wide area network such as the Internet. Specifically the mail verification application is adapted to store at least a verifying portion of mail ID data in memory. In one embodiment of the present invention the verifying portion of the mail ID data includes an identifiable code portion e.g. an alpha code a numeric code an alphanumeric code a symbolic code a digital code etc. a shipping portion e.g. ship date shipping location shipping method etc. and or a recipient portion e.g. the recipients name address email address IP address account number social security number etc. . The mail ID data is then affixed to a mail object. The mail object which may further include a mail to address a return mail address and or postage is then manually delivered to a recipient. In one embodiment of the present invention the mail ID data further includes mail to address data return mail address data and or postage data.

At least an authenticating portion of the mail ID data is then provided to the reception device. The reception device which communicates with the mail ID device over a wide area network transmits at least the authenticating portion of the mail ID data to the mail verification application operating on the mail ID device. The mail verification application then compares the authenticating portion of the mail ID data with the verifying portion stored in memory. If the authenticating portion corresponds to the verifying portion e.g. matches is reasonably related etc. then mail verification data is sent to the reception device. In one embodiment of the present invention at least a portion of the mail verification data includes authenticating data indicating that the mail ID data has been authenticated securing data indicating who secured the mail object sender data indicating who sent the mail object recipient data indicating the intended recipient of the mail object and or additional data e.g. the contents of the mail object downloadable product data sender web page information third party advertisements etc .

In one embodiment of the present invention the mail ID device further includes an input device adapted to provide at least a verifying portion of the mail ID data to the mail verification application and or an output device adapted to affix the mail ID data on the mail object. In another embodiment of the present invention the reception device includes an input device for receiving at least an authenticating portion of the mail ID data from the mail object and or a mail authenticating application adapted to receive at least the authenticating portion of the mail ID data from the input device and provide at least the authenticating portion of the mail ID data to the mail ID device. In another embodiment of the present invention the U.S. Postal Service or an interim authenticating or screening entity is the recipient of the mail object thus interacting with the reception device to receive mail verification data.

A more complete understanding of the system and method for providing mail verification data in response to receiving at least a portion of mail ID data will be afforded to those skilled in the art as well as a realization of additional advantages and objects thereof by a consideration of the following detailed description of the preferred embodiment. Reference will be made to the appended sheets of drawings which will first be described briefly.

The present invention provides a system and method for providing mail verification data over a wide area network such as the Internet in response to receiving and authenticating at least a portion of mail identification ID data. In the detailed description that follows like element numerals are used to describe like elements illustrated in one or more figures.

Preferred embodiments of the present invention operate in accordance with at least one reception device a mail identification ID device a memory and a mail verification application adapted to communicate with the reception device over a wide area network such as the Internet. illustrates one embodiment of the mail verification system which includes a mail ID device and a reception device communicating through a wide area network such as the Internet. It should be appreciate as depicted in that the reception device s includes but is not limited to personal computers set top boxes personal digital assistances PDAs mobile phones land line phones televisions bar code readers and all other physically and wirelessly connected reception devices generally known to those skilled in the art. It should further be appreciated that the number of reception devices depicted in are merely to illustrate how the present invention operates and are not intended to further limit the present invention.

As shown in the mail ID device further includes a mail verification application and a memory . The mail verification application is adapted to store at least a portion i.e. a verifying portion of mail ID data in the memory receive at least a portion i.e. an authenticating portion of mail ID data from the reception device and provide mail verification data if the portion of the mail ID data received from the reception device is authenticated. It should be appreciated that the mail verification application may further be adapted to generate the mail ID data and provide it to an external device e.g. a printer etc. or receive at least a verifying portion of the mail ID data from an external device e.g. a scanner etc. . It should also be appreciated that the mail verification application may exist as a single application or as multiple applications locally and or remotely stored that operate together to perform the verification functions as described herein. It should further be appreciated that the location of the memory device depicted in is not intended to further limit the present invention. Thus a memory device that is for example external to the mail ID device is within the spirit and scope of the present invention.

Referring back to where the dashed arrows indicate data transactions and the solid arrow indicates physical movement mail ID data is affixed to a mail object as used in its broader sense to include but is not limited to the packaging that surrounds the mail object . It should be appreciated that mail ID data can be encoded encrypted e.g. using bar code data digital data etc. to prevent fraudulent usage. It should further be appreciated that affixing the mail ID data on the mail object includes but is not limited to printing or attaching mail ID data directly on the outer surface of the mail object or printing storing the mail ID data on labels ICs smart cards RFID tags or any other data storage devices or materials generally known to those skilled in the art and attaching them to the outer surface of the mail object . It should also be appreciated that the location of the mail ID data on the mail object in is merely to exemplify how the invention operates and is not intended to further limit the present invention. Thus affixing the mail ID data in some other location such as over the sealing flap of an envelope is within the spirit and scope of this invention.

At least a portion i.e. a verifying portion of the mail ID data either before or after the mail ID data is affixed is stored in the mail ID device or more particular as shown in in a memory located within the mail ID device . Specifically the mail verification application either receives or generates at least the verifying portion of the mail ID data . The verifying portion is then stored in the memory . In one embodiment of the present invention the verifying portion of the mail ID data includes a identifiable code portion e.g. an alpha code a numeric code and alphanumeric code a symbolic code a digital code etc. a shipping portion e.g. ship date shipping location shipping method etc. and or a recipient portion e.g. the recipients name address email address IP address account number social security number etc. . The mail object which may further include a mail to address a return mail address and or postage can then be manually delivered to a recipient. It should be appreciated that the mail ID data can also be encoded e.g. in a bar code etc. to include mail to address data return mail address data and or postage data. In other words for example mail ID data could be encoded to include both coded data and postage account data.

Once the recipient or their designee receives the mail object at least an authenticating portion of the mail ID data is provided to the reception device . The reception device which communicates with the mail ID device over a wide area network transmits at least the authenticating portion of the mail identification data to the mail verification application operating on the mail ID device . The mail verification application then compares the authenticating portion of the mail ID data with the verifying portion stored in memory . If the received portion is authenticated or corresponds to the verifying portion e.g. matches is reasonably related etc. then mail verification data is sent to the reception device .

In one embodiment of the present invention at least a portion of the mail verification data includes authenticating data e.g. image data audio data etc. indicating that the mail ID data has been authenticated. This would allow for example the reception device to produce at least one authenticating image on a display and or perform at least one authenticating sound on a speaker. In another embodiment of the present invention at least a portion of the mail verification data includes securing data indicating who secured the mail object sender data indicating who sent the mail object recipient data indicating who is to receive the mail object and or additional data e.g. the contents of the mail object downloadable product data sender web page data third party advertisements etc .

In another embodiment of the present invention the mail ID device and or the reception device further include an input device e.g. adapted to receive at least a portion of the mail ID data. It should be appreciated that that the input devices depicted and discussed herein e.g. include but are not limited to scanners e.g. bar code scanners etc. keyboards RFID readers smart card readers IC readers and all other input devices generally known to those skilled in the art.

In another embodiment of the present invention the mail ID device further includes an output device adapted to affix e.g. print store etc. the mail ID data on the mail object. It should be appreciated that affixing the mail ID data on the mail object includes but is not limited to printing or attaching mail ID data directly on the outer surface of the mail object or printing storing the mail ID data on labels ICs smart cards RFID tags or any other data storage devices or materials generally known to those skilled in the art and attaching them to the outer surface of the mail object. It should further be appreciated that the output device depicted and described herein e.g. includes but is not limited to printers data storage device e.g. device capable of storing data on ICs smart cards RFID tags etc. and all other output devices generally known to those skilled in the art.

In another embodiment of the present invention as shown in the reception device further includes a mail authenticating application adapted to receive at least the authenticating portion of the mail ID data from the input device and provide at least the authenticating portion of the mail ID data to the mail ID device. It should be appreciated that the mail authenticating application may exist as a single application or as multiple applications locally and or remotely stored that operate together to perform the authenticating functions as described herein.

In one embodiment of the present invention the mail ID data further includes software booting data adapted to boot the mail authenticating application an email application and or a browser application. Either one of these applications could then be used to provide at least an authenticating portion of said mail ID data to said mail ID device provide additional information to said mail ID device or the sender of the mail object and or receive additional information from either the mail ID device the sender of the mail object or a third party. In another embodiment the mail verification data further includes software booting data adapted to boot an email application and or a browser application. Either one of these applications could then be used to provide additional information to the mail ID device and or receive additional information from either the mail ID device the sender of the mail object or a third party.

In another embodiment of the invention the reception device or more particularly the mail authenticating application is adapted to provide a reply email to the mail ID device or the sender of the mail object. This reply email may either be sent automatically to acknowledge the reception of the mail ID data and or mail verification data or manually to allow the recipient to communicate with the mail ID device and or sender of the mail object. In another embodiment of the invention the mail verification application is adapted to provide the mail verification data to the reception device via an email.

In another embodiment of the present invention the U.S. Postal Service or an interim authenticating or screening entity is the recipient as defined by this application of the mail object thus interacting with the reception device to receive mail verification data. If mail is authenticated or approved in the case of screening the mail object is forwarded on to the actual intended recipient.

Having thus described multiple embodiments of a system and method of providing mail verification data in response to receiving mail ID data it should be apparent to those skilled in the art that certain advantages of the system have been achieved. It should also be appreciated that various modifications adaptations and alternative embodiments thereof may be made within the scope and spirit of the present invention. The invention is further defined by the following claims.

