---

title: Gesture keyboard with gesture cancellation
abstract: In one example, a method includes outputting, for display at a presence-sensitive display, a graphical user interface comprising a graphical keyboard that includes a group of keys, wherein each key in the group of keys is associated with a respective, different region of the presence-sensitive display. The method further includes receiving an indication of a gesture to select a sequence of one or more keys in the group of keys of the graphical keyboard. The method further includes determining, based at least in part on the indication of the gesture, that the gesture includes at least one feature associated with a cancellation of the selected sequence of one or more keys. The method further includes, in response to determining that the gesture includes the at least one feature associated with the cancellation, omitting the selected sequence of one or more keys from entry to a text input field.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09569107&OS=09569107&RS=09569107
owner: Google Inc.
number: 09569107
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130419
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 714 715 filed Oct. 16 2012 the entire content of which is incorporated by reference herein.

Some computing devices e.g. mobile phones tablet computers etc. may provide a graphical keyboard as part of a graphical user interface for composing text using a presence sensitive display e.g. a screen . The graphical keyboard may enable a user of the computing device to enter text e.g. an e mail a text message or a document etc. . For instance a presence sensitive display of a computing device may output a graphical or soft keyboard that enables the user to enter data by indicating e.g. by tapping keys displayed at the presence sensitive display.

In some cases a computing device may present a continuous gesture graphical keyboard sometimes referred to as a combo gesture keyboard or gesture keyboard with which a user can interact by inputting a continuous gesture that indicates a word to be input to the computing device e.g. by sliding his or her finger over various regions of the presence sensitive screen associated with desired keys of the keyboard . In this way continuous gesture graphical keyboards allow a user to enter a word or group of words with a single gesture. As such a continuous gesture graphical keyboard may allow the user to achieve a certain degree of input efficiency.

However some continuous gesture keyboards have certain drawbacks. For example some computing devices generate touch events when a user performs a gesture at a presence sensitive screen at which a gesture graphical keyboard is currently displayed. The touch events may include for example representations of different locations of the presence sensitive screen that have been traversed by the user s finger as she performs the gesture. However in some examples when the user performs tap and or non tap gestures with a high degree of speed and or without high precision the user s continuous gesture input may intersect some keys in the graphical keyboard that are not part of the user s intended input or may not intersect all the keys that are part of the user s intended input. Accordingly the computing device may detect and enter gesture inputs corresponding to detections of user inputs that do not correspond with the user s intended inputs. As such gestures including a high degree of speed and or lacking precision may result in text entry inconsistent with the user s intended inputs thereby reducing the speed at which the user is able to interact with the computing device.

In one example a method includes outputting by a computing device and for display at a presence sensitive display a graphical user interface comprising a graphical keyboard that includes a group of keys wherein each key in the group of keys is associated with a respective different region of the presence sensitive display. The method further includes receiving by the computing device an indication of a gesture to select a sequence of one or more keys in the group of keys of the graphical keyboard. The method further includes determining by the computing device and based at least in part on the indication of the gesture that the gesture includes at least one feature associated with a cancellation of the selected sequence of one or more keys. The method further includes in response to determining that the gesture includes the at least one feature associated with the cancellation omitting by the computing device the selected sequence of one or more keys from entry to a text input field.

In another example a computing system includes at least one processor. The at least one processor is configured to output for display at a presence sensitive display a graphical user interface comprising a graphical keyboard that includes a group of keys wherein each key in the group of keys is associated with a respective different region of the presence sensitive display. The at least one processor is further configured to receive an indication of a gesture to select a sequence of one or more keys in the group of keys of the graphical keyboard. The at least one processor is further configured to determine based at least in part on the indication of the gesture that the gesture includes at least one feature associated with a cancellation of the selected sequence of one or more keys. The at least one processor is further configured to in response to determining that the gesture includes the at least one feature associated with the cancellation omit the selected sequence of one or more keys from entry to a text input field.

In another example a computer readable storage medium is encoded with instructions executable by at least one processor to output for display at a presence sensitive display a graphical user interface comprising a graphical keyboard that includes a group of keys wherein each key in the group of keys is associated with a respective different region of the presence sensitive display. The instructions are further executable by the at least one processor to receive an indication of a gesture to select a sequence of one or more keys in the group of keys of the graphical keyboard. The instructions are further executable by the at least one processor to determine based at least in part on the indication of the gesture that the gesture includes at least one feature associated with a cancellation of the selected sequence of one or more keys. The instructions are further executable by the at least one processor to in response to determining that the gesture includes the at least one feature associated with the cancellation omit the selected sequence of one or more keys from entry to a text input field.

The details of one or more embodiments are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features objects and advantages will be apparent from the description and drawings and from the claims.

The various described features are not drawn to scale and are drawn in a simplified form in which one or more features relevant to the present application are emphasized. Like reference characters denote like elements throughout the figures and text.

In general this disclosure relates to systems methods techniques and devices for providing a graphical keyboard configured to receive continuous gesture inputs and to enable features for gesture cancellation. In some examples the computing device may determine whether features of a continuous gesture indicate cancellation of the gesture. In other words the computing device may be configured to determine one or more gesture features of a continuous gesture input as an indication to cancel that gesture input or to cancel one or more gesture input features entered prior to the cancellation gesture feature. As used herein any gesture input may include a gesture component or gesture feature that is simply a gesture or a portion of a longer or more complex gesture. A gesture may include any user gesture detectable by an input device included in communicatively coupled to or operatively coupled to a computing device.

For example a computing device may be configured to interpret as a cancellation gesture feature a gesture feature e.g. a portion of a gesture that extends outside a graphical keyboard. As another example a computing device may be configured to interpret a gesture feature that extends to one or more selected keys of a graphical keyboard such as the space bar or other non character keys as a cancellation gesture feature. As yet another example a computing device may be configured to interpret a gesture feature that includes a wiggle or zigzag shape within a graphical keyboard as a cancellation gesture feature. As yet another example a computing device may be configured to interpret a gesture feature that includes a path over time that extends back and forth repetitively within a confined area within a graphical keyboard as a cancellation gesture feature. In various examples the computing device may interpret a gesture feature to be incompatible with an indication of an intended key selection gesture input or to be below a probability threshold in a user gesture input model for an intended key selection gesture input. In any of these examples a computing device may then respond to the cancellation gesture feature by omitting a selected sequence of one or more keys indicated by preceding gesture features from entry to a text field or other input field. Therefore in various examples the cancellation gesture may be a portion of a continuous gesture that initially specifies a sequence of one or more keys to enter or the cancellation gesture may be a continuous portion of a text entry gesture. In various examples the cancellation gesture may effectively cancel an entry of a selected sequence of one or more keys prior to the selected sequence of one or more keys being entered to a text entry field.

A computing device may thereby in some examples enable a user to cancel a gesture input with a part of the gesture without interrupting the process of gesture inputs. In some examples the techniques enable a user to cancel the gesture without having to perform a separate cancellation input in a separate input mode such as tapping in a text input field after completing a gesture input in the graphical keyboard. A computing device enabled to respond to gesture input cancellation features may enable easier and more efficient correction of erroneous gesture keyboard inputs.

As depicted in the example of user traces a touch gesture at graphical keyboard from a first position along an input gesture path to a second position . The first position is within the area of the key for the letter L in the graphical keyboard and the second position is within the area of the key for the letter E in the graphical keyboard . Computing device may detect the user s gesture along input gesture path intersecting the areas of several other keys within graphical keyboard . Computing device may process the gesture path using gesture keyboard interpretation tools such as a language model a comparison with adjacent keys a model of gesture input motions and the like. Computing device may determine one or more candidate words in response to the gesture input along gesture input path from position to position . Computing device outputs graphical representations of one or more determined candidate words in input candidate field in this example and outputs an indication mark indicating one of the candidate words as a primary or default candidate word. Computing device may also output the primary candidate word for display in text input field at least initially or on a contingent basis as shown in .

After user enters the gesture along input gesture path the user may change the user s mind about what the user wants to input. User may therefore decide to cancel the input of the current gesture. Computing device implementing techniques of this disclosure may enable the user to cancel the preceding gesture using a subsequent gesture such that the user may cancel the preceding gesture in a single fluid set of gestures. Computing device using responses to inputs defined as cancellation gestures may therefore potentially free the user from having to stop making gestures and interact with computing device in a different interface mode to cancel a gesture input.

In particular user may continue to enter a gesture from position back and forth along gesture path within a confined area of the graphical keyboard which computing device is configured to process as a cancellation gesture in this example. Cancellation gesture path has a zigzag shape with narrow vertices and near parallel lines within a confined area and may be analogized as a scratching out gesture that a user might intuitively associate with canceling a gesture or erasing an input. Computing device may then respond to determining that the gesture includes a gesture cancellation feature along cancellation gesture path by omitting the primary candidate word from entry to a text input field in this example. Computing device may omit a sequence of characters such as the primary candidate word from entry to text input field by removing or deleting a graphical representation of a word from text input field after initially outputting the graphical representation of the word for example. In another example computing device may omit a sequence of characters such as the primary candidate word from entry to text input field by not entering the word to text input field in the first place or not outputting a graphical representation of the word in text input field .

Omitting a selected sequence of one or more keys from entry to a text input field may also in some examples include removing or deleting the selected sequence of one or more keys from a tentative text entry field a suggestion text entry field or a candidate text entry field which may or may not be rendered in a display prior to entering the selected sequence of keys to another text entry field such as a displayed text entry field for a text message an email a social networking post or other particular text entry field for a particular application or function. Omitting a selected sequence of one or more keys from entry to a text input field may also in some examples include initially entering the sequence of one or more characters to a displayed text entry field for a text message an email a social networking post or other particular text entry field for a particular application or function and then removing or deleting the sequence of one or more characters from the displayed text entry field for the text message the email the social networking post or other particular text entry field for a particular application or function.

Computing device may be configured to use various criteria to distinguish between the zigzag shape of a cancellation gesture and other zigzag shapes of input gestures to select a sequence of keys that happen to lie along a zigzag shaped path. For example if computing device determines that multiple line segments of a zigzag shaped gesture all lie within a relatively tightly confined area e.g. confined area or that multiple vertices of a zigzag shaped gesture are positioned within relatively short distances of each other or that the line segments of a zigzag shaped gesture are positioned within relatively short distances of each other or overlap computing device may determine that the gesture is a cancellation gesture rather than an input gesture to select an additional sequence of keys. Computing device may also combine some or all of the example criteria described above and or additional criteria to determine that a gesture component is a cancellation gesture rather than an input gesture.

As another example computing device may use techniques to evaluate probabilities of a gesture being an input gesture or a cancellation gesture. For example a gesture may include an initial gesture component e.g. a portion of a gesture to select a sequence of one or more keys corresponding to at least one potential word. For example this initial gesture component may include a user s swipe gesture that touches or contactlessly indicates a path intersecting sequence of keys at the graphical keyboard. The gesture may then include a feature or portion i.e. a cancellation gesture feature associated with a cancellation of a prior portion of the gesture in accordance with this disclosure. The cancellation gesture feature may include a gesture component subsequent to the initial gesture component that indicates a portion of GUI that doesn t indicate additional keys for key inputs. In some examples the cancellation gesture feature may indicate an area of GUI outside of any of the keys of graphical keyboard such as text input field . In some examples the cancellation gesture feature may indicate an area of GUI that is still within graphical keyboard but that does not form any likely text entries in combination with the prior gesture input such as by indicating space bar .

In various examples the cancellation gesture feature may indicate an area of graphical keyboard that forms a sequence of keys that in combination with the initial gesture component is below a threshold of probability for selecting a sequence of letters to complete any potential word as further described below. For example a gesture input may include a scribbling out motion that indicates a repeating sequence of a small number of keys such that the sequence of keys would form a repetitive sequence of letters that does not form a word. Determining that a gesture is a cancellation gesture may further include determining that a subsequent gesture component is below the threshold of probability for selecting in combination with the initial gesture component a sequence of letters to complete any potential word such as in accordance with one or more language models for one or more given languages. That is computing device may compare a probabilistic model of the sequence of indicated keys with a language model and determine that there is no potential word in the language model that corresponds with any interpretation of the sequence of keys within a nominal probability threshold. Determining that a gesture is a cancellation gesture may further include determining that a subsequent gesture component indicates or intersects a determined location of GUI a determined key of graphical keyboard or repeatedly extends back and forth within a confined area of graphical keyboard for example.

Computing device may also be configured to process various other gestures as cancellation gestures in addition to a back and forth or zigzag shaped gesture as described with reference to . Some additional examples of computing device processing gestures as cancellation gestures are described below with reference to .

In the example of computing device outputs GUI for display at presence sensitive display such that GUI includes graphical keyboard . Graphical keyboard includes a group of keys wherein each key in the group of keys is associated with a respective different region of presence sensitive display . Computing device receives an indication of a user s gesture along input gesture path from position to position and then along cancellation gesture path to select a sequence of one or more keys within the group of keys of graphical keyboard . Computing device then determines based at least in part on the indication of the gesture that the gesture includes at least one feature associated with a cancellation of the selected sequence of one or more keys such as the gesture feature along cancellation gesture path . In response to determining that the gesture includes the at least one feature associated with the cancellation computing device omits the selected sequence of one or more keys from entry to text input field .

Computing device may be configured to determine that a gesture component having a determined path over time includes a gesture cancellation feature. Determining that the gesture includes a feature associated with the cancellation may include determining that the gesture includes the gesture component having a determined path over time. The determined path over time may constitute a sequence of detected gesture positions with corresponding indications of a time for each of the positions or at least for some of the positions. The determined path over time may include a path that extends back and forth more than once within a confined area within the graphical keyboard such as cancellation gesture path extending back and forth more than once within confined area within graphical keyboard . Computing device may evaluate whether the area corresponding to the cancellation gesture path is a confined area for purposes of processing as a gesture cancellation feature by various criteria such as whether the confined area is substantially the same width or narrower than a width of one of the keys in graphical keyboard for example.

Computing device may be configured to determine that a gesture component having a determined shape includes a gesture cancellation feature. Determining that the gesture includes the gesture cancellation feature associated with the cancellation may include determining that the gesture includes the gesture component having the determined shape. The determined shape may include a zigzag having first and second groups of vertices wherein the first group of vertices are within a first confined area and the second group of vertices are within a second confined area within the graphical keyboard such as the vertices of cancellation gesture path being grouped within two smaller confined areas proximate to opposite ends of confined area within graphical keyboard . Computing device may evaluate whether the areas corresponding to the two groups of vertices of cancellation gesture path are confined areas for purposes of processing as a gesture cancellation feature by various criteria such as whether the confined areas are substantially the same size or smaller than an area of one of the keys in the graphical keyboard graphical keyboard for example.

For instance in the example of the zigzag shape of cancellation gesture path includes one group of vertices within a portion of the area of the graphical key for the letter R where the portion of area surrounding the vertices is smaller than the area of the graphical key. Similarly the other group of vertices of the zigzag shape of cancellation gesture path are positioned within a portion of the area of the graphical key for the letter A where the portion of area surrounding this group of vertices is also smaller than the area of the graphical key. The vertices may also be spread across the boundaries between two or more keys while still being grouped within an area that is smaller than the area of any one key such that computing device processes a zigzag shaped gesture with this group of vertices as a cancellation gesture.

While these examples illustrate some implementation details with which computing device may be configured to process gestures as cancellation gestures and respond by omitting selected sequences computing device may also use many other sets of criteria or techniques for processing particular gestures as gesture cancellation features. While the techniques above and other implementations may include details such as determining whether the area of a gesture is a confined area in accordance with selected criteria or whether the shape of a gesture has components or characteristics that qualify for the shape of a cancellation gesture these implementation details may not necessarily be apparent to a user and instead may enable a user to use cancellation gestures intuitively and rapidly in the process of interacting with graphical keyboard .

The input device for detecting a gesture and communicating an indication of the gesture to a computing device may include a touchscreen or other presence sensitive display e.g. presence sensitive display of an acoustic sensor a video camera sensitive to visible infrared or other wavelengths of electromagnetic radiation or other type of sensing device. The input device may communicate the indication of the gesture in any of various forms of encoded data. The computing device that receives the indication of the gesture from the input device may be interpreted as an entire device such as computing device or a component of a device such as a set of processors or an individual processor that may be within or local to or separate or remote from the input device. A computing device may detect an input in that an input device detects the input and communicates an indication of the input to the computing device for example.

Computing device in various examples may be a smartphone a tablet computing device a laptop or desktop computer a computing device in a wearable form factor such as a wristwatch or glasses computing device or other type of computing device. Computing device includes a presence sensitive display in this example. Computing device outputs GUI which may incorporate outputs from applications executing on computing device including graphical keyboard module and gesture cancellation module for display at presence sensitive display . Additional applications or application processes may also be executing on computing device without corresponding GUI s. Additional details of example computing devices are described in further detail below with respect to subsequent figures including the example of .

Computing device may include various components including one or more processors memory one or more communication unit s e.g. network interface one or more data storage devices power source one or more microphones one or more speakers and one or more user interface devices such as presence sensitive display . Each of the components and may be interconnected physically communicatively and or operatively in any of a variety of physical and or communicative connection means for inter component communications and each one may refer to one or more components.

User interface devices may include one or more input devices and one or more output devices. Presence sensitive display microphone and speakers are illustrative examples of user interface devices included in computing device . Presence sensitive display in some examples may generate a signal corresponding to the position or positions of the input unit potentially including how the position changes over time. Presence sensitive display may include one or more input and or output devices such as a touchscreen or other touch sensitive display a proximate gesture sensitive display sensitive to gesture inputs that are proximate but not necessarily in contact a display device and one or more cameras or other implementations. Presence sensitive display may include a liquid crystal display LCD display screen or display screen that uses another type of graphical output technology. Presence sensitive display may also be a touchscreen that may include an electrically capacitive layer sensitive to the presence of user contacts and configured to translate the positions of user contact touch gesture inputs and the motions of touch gesture inputs as they change position over time into signals to provide to a driver for the touchscreen or other feature for receiving information on the gesture inputs. Presence sensitive display may also include a portion of a computing device having a wearable form factor such as a glasses or wristwatch form factor for example. Presence sensitive display may also be another type of presence sensitive display in other examples.

In some examples presence sensitive display may detect an object at and or near the screen of presence sensitive display . In various examples presence sensitive display may detect contact gestures on a touchscreen or non contact gestures proximate to or remote from a gesture detection device. As one non limiting example range presence sensitive display may detect an object such as a finger or stylus which is within two inches or less of the physical screen of presence sensitive display . Presence sensitive display may determine a location e.g. an x y coordinate of presence sensitive display at or near which the object was detected. In other non limiting example range presence sensitive display may detect an object six inches or less from the physical screen of the display or six feet or less from the physical screen of the display or at any distance within detection range of an optical acoustic capacitance or other type of gesture input detection device. Presence sensitive display may determine the location selected by the object e.g. user s finger using capacitive inductive and or optical recognition techniques. In some examples presence sensitive display provides output using tactile audio or video stimuli.

Presence sensitive display may be or include both an input device and an output device that generates one or more signals corresponding to a location selected by a gesture input performed by the user at or near the presence sensitive screen . In some examples presence sensitive display may detect a presence of an input unit e.g. one or more fingers a pen or a stylus that may come in contact with presence sensitive display or that may be proximate to but not in physical contact with presence sensitive display . A gesture input may therefore refer to a proximate presence that is detected by presence sensitive display or to a physical contact with presence sensitive display e.g. in the case of a touch sensitive screen. Various embodiments may include various types of presence sensitive display such as a device that reads gesture inputs by visual acoustic remote capacitance or other type of signals and which may also process user gesture inputs detected by visual acoustic remote capacitance etc. signals with pattern recognition software or other means to derive program inputs from user input signals.

Presence sensitive display may provide signals it generates based on user gesture inputs as data to user graphical keyboard module and or gesture cancellation module and or to other application modules executing on computing device or components of computing device . One or more intermediary applications or operating system components of computing device may also filter or process the signals generated via presence sensitive display before conveying filtered or processed input signals to the graphical keyboard module and or gesture cancellation module or another one or more applications or components.

Computing device has operating system stored on one or more storage devices which may be executed by one or more processors . Operating system in various examples may control aspects of the operation of components of computing device and facilitate operation of higher level software application modules . Computing device in this example has application modules that may include a graphical keyboard module and or gesture cancellation module that is executable by computing device . Graphical keyboard module and or gesture cancellation module may include executable instructions to perform or facilitate any or all of the gesture cancellation and other gesture keyboard features and behavior discussed in this disclosure or any other aspects of this disclosure. Operating system in one example may facilitate the interaction of graphical keyboard module and or gesture cancellation module with any or all of processors memory communication unit s e.g. network interface data storage device power source one or more microphones one or more speakers and presence sensitive display .

Graphical keyboard module and or gesture cancellation module may include executable instructions to receive gesture inputs and to generate text outputs based on the gesture inputs. Graphical keyboard module and or gesture cancellation module may include executable instructions to receive gesture cancellation inputs and to respond to gesture cancellation inputs by cancelling candidate text strings instead of entering the candidate text strings to a text display GUI or a text input feature of an application. Graphical keyboard module and or gesture cancellation module may also include executable instructions to perform or facilitate any or all of the gesture keyboard features or behavior discussed in this disclosure or any other aspects of this disclosure.

Graphical keyboard module and or gesture cancellation module may each be an independent application or application process and graphical keyboard module and or gesture cancellation module may each also collect or receive data from other applications from among application modules in some examples. Graphical keyboard module and or gesture cancellation module may also be portions of executable code within a single application or application process in some examples. Graphical keyboard module and or gesture cancellation module may also be an add on that is integrated with one or more of application modules . Part or all of the functions of graphical keyboard module and or gesture cancellation module may also be performed supported or facilitated by portions of the operating system as further described below.

Graphical keyboard module and or gesture cancellation module may include program instructions and or data that are executable by computing device or by at least one of the one or more processors of computing device . For example graphical keyboard module and or gesture cancellation module may include computer executable software instructions that cause computing device to perform any one or more of the operations and actions described in the present disclosure. In various examples operating system and graphical keyboard module and or gesture cancellation module may include code and or data that are stored on one or more data storage devices and that are read and executed or processed by one or more processors and may in the process be stored at least temporarily in memory .

In the illustrative example of computing device depicted in operating system may include an operating system kernel which may include various device drivers kernel extensions and kernel modules for example. Operating system may also include or interact with a set of libraries which may include various more or less standard specialized open source and or proprietary libraries. These may include a specialized library such as graphical keyboard framework that may perform or support graphical keyboard functions e.g. gesture cancellation in accordance with any of the examples described herein. Performing or supporting graphical keyboard functions in the operating system such as with graphical keyboard framework rather than only at the level of a top layer application may potentially enable gesture input interactions including gesture inputs and gesture cancellations with faster or more computationally efficient performance closer or more reliable integration with other applications from among application modules or other advantages in some implementations.

In an illustrative example of computing device such as that depicted in operating system may also include or interact with a runtime which may include various core libraries and or a virtual machine such as the Dalvik virtual machine in an example implementation. Virtual machine may abstract certain aspects and properties of computing device and allow higher level application modules to execute in the environment of virtual machine so that software code in the higher level application modules may be compiled into bytecode to be executed by the virtual machine . Virtual machine may then compile the instructions into native machine code of any one or more processors of computing device which may include optimizations specific to those processors . Computing device may also have an application framework that executes on top of runtime and libraries and that may include resources to facilitate the execution of application modules that execute on top of application framework . Other embodiments may include other elements of a software stack between the operating system kernel and the top level application modules .

Application framework may for example include a graphical keyboard manager that itself may include executable instructions to perform or facilitate any or all of gesture cancellation functions in a gesture keyboard or any other aspects of this disclosure. Performing or supporting gesture keyboard functions in the application framework such as with graphical keyboard manager whether or not in combination with graphical keyboard framework may also enable gesture input interaction including gesture cancellation with faster or more computationally efficient performance or other advantages in some implementations. Computing device may perform or facilitate any graphical keyboard functions described herein with any one or all of the graphical keyboard module gesture cancellation module graphical keyboard manager in the application framework graphical keyboard framework in the libraries or any other element of a software stack included in or operatively accessible to computing device .

In various examples executable instructions for applications or software elements such as graphical keyboard module and or gesture cancellation module may be written in executable instructions that may be executable as native code by computing device . In various examples executable instructions for applications or software elements such as graphical keyboard module and or gesture cancellation module may be written in a high level programming language then compiled to virtual machine executable bytecode to be executed by virtual machine ultimately to be executed as native code by computing device under the abstraction of virtual machine as another example. In another illustrative example executable instructions for applications or software elements such as graphical keyboard module and or gesture cancellation module may be compiled from a higher level language such as JavaScript directly into native machine code for execution by one or more processors. In another illustrative example libraries may include the Standard C Library libc or another C library which provides native support for C functions and graphical keyboard module and or gesture cancellation module may be written in C and be supported by libc in libraries .

In different implementations the operating system and or the virtual machine may be able to execute code written in various other languages such as C Go JavaScript Dart Python Ruby or Clojure to name only a few non limiting examples either natively or compiled into a virtual machine executable bytecode or an intermediate language or compiled into an assembly language or machine code native to one or more of the processors of computing device potentially using just in time JIT compilation for example. Various examples may not use a virtual machine or an intermediate language and may use applications that execute natively on the computing device or that use some other technique compiler interpreter or abstraction layer for interpreting a higher level language into code that executes natively on computing device .

Graphical keyboard framework libraries or other aspect of operating system or the software stack underlying the application modules may include code for providing any or all of the functionality for performing gesture cancellation for graphical keyboard inputs in accordance with any of the examples described herein and may abstract this functionality at an underlying level for application modules . Code for implementing the functionality of any of the aspects of this disclosure may therefore be included in any level or portion of the entire software stack that executes on computing device or that is operatively accessible to computing device such as in a web application or other program executing on resources outside of computing device but that interact with computing device such as via Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP over a wireless connection for example.

In various examples computing device may also have various application programming interfaces APIs that are native to operating system and that execute on top of operating system and which are intended to provide resources that automate or facilitate higher level applications that access the one or more APIs. These one or more APIs may include object libraries or other libraries toolsets or frameworks and may be associated with a native programming environment for writing applications. Computing device may also have a different specific organization of APIs libraries frameworks runtime and or virtual machine associated with or built on top of operating system other than the example organization depicted in .

Higher level applications such as graphical keyboard module and or gesture cancellation module may therefore make use of any of various abstractions properties libraries or lower level functions that may be provided by any of operating system OS kernel libraries graphical keyboard framework runtime core libraries virtual machine application framework graphical keyboard manager or other compilers interpreters frameworks APIs or other types of resources or any combination of the above with which computing device is configured to enable functions such as gesture cancellation functions in a graphical keyboard and other functions as described herein.

The one or more processors in various examples may be configured to implement functionality and or process instructions for execution within computing device . For example processors may be capable of processing instructions stored in memory or instructions stored on data storage devices . Computing device may include multiple processors and may divide certain tasks among different processors. For example processors may include a central processing unit CPU which may have one or more processing cores. Processors may also include one or more graphics processing units GPUs and or additional processors. Processors may be configured for multi threaded processing. Processors and or operating system may divide tasks among different processors or processor cores according to various criteria and various tasks or portions of tasks may also be divided among different layers of software and hardware.

Memory in various examples may be configured to store information within computing device during operation. Memory in various examples may include a computer readable storage medium. In various examples memory is a temporary memory and computing device may rely more on one or more data storage devices than memory for long term storage. Memory in various examples may be a volatile memory meaning that memory does not maintain stored contents for a long duration of time once it is powered down such as when computing device is turned off. Examples of volatile memories that may characterize memory include random access memories RAM dynamic random access memories DRAM static random access memories SRAM and other forms of volatile memories. In various examples memory may be used to store program instructions for execution by processors . Memory in various examples may be used by software or applications executing on computing device to temporarily store data and or software code during execution of an application.

One or more data storage devices in various examples may include a computer readable storage medium or multiple computer readable storage media. Data storage devices may be configured to store larger amounts of information than memory . Data storage devices may further be configured for long term storage of information. In various examples data storage devices include non volatile storage elements. Examples of such non volatile storage elements include magnetic hard discs optical discs floppy discs flash memories or forms of electrically programmable memories EPROM or electrically erasable and programmable EEPROM memories. In other examples memory may also be configured for long term data storage and any of a variety of technologies may blur the lines between memory and data storage and between volatile and non volatile. Memory and data storage devices may also include different levels of caches and any of various buffers or other temporary memories that may be incorporated at any of various levels of a processing architecture and with various latency and capacity profiles including dedicated caches exclusive to specific processing cores or processing chips for example.

Computing device in various examples may also include one or more communication unit s e.g. network interface . Computing device in some examples use communication unit s to communicate with external devices such as servers or data centers via one or more networks which may include one or more wireless networks. Network interface may be or include a network interface card such as an Ethernet card an optical transceiver a radio frequency transceiver or any other type of component that is configured to send and receive information. Other examples of such network interfaces may include Bluetooth 3G 4G LTE and WiFi radios configured for mobile computing devices as well as Universal Serial Bus USB . In various examples computing device may use communication unit s to communicate wirelessly with an external device such as a server or data center that may provide data to computing device .

Computing device may also include or be configured to connect with any of a variety of other input and or output devices such as speakers microphones physical buttons a virtual or physical keyboard or keypad a mouse a touchpad a trackball a voice user interface system an acoustic vibration sensor a sound card a video graphics adapter card a video camera connected to a video gesture input interpretation system or any other type of device for detecting and or interpreting inputs from a user or for converting a signal into a form of graphical audio tactile or other form of user output that can be sensed by a user. These may be included in user interface devices as part of computing device and may also include separate and or remote devices operatively connected to computing device .

Computing device in various examples may include one or more power sources which may be rechargeable and provide power to computing device . Power source in various examples may be a lithium ion battery a nickel cadmium battery a nickel metal hydride battery or other suitable power source.

Computing device is thus one illustrative example of a computing device to implement a graphical keyboard with gesture cancellation features in the form of graphical keyboard module gesture cancellation module graphical keyboard manager and or graphical keyboard framework of hereafter collectively module and as illustratively shown in operation in . Computing device or other computing device implementations may have one or more applications executing thereon that may implement any or all features of a graphical keyboard with gesture cancellation features.

Computing device processes the gesture portion along gesture path proceeding up into the area of text input field as a cancellation gesture in this example. This is one example of various implementations in which computing device may process a gesture extending outside of graphical keyboard as a cancellation gesture. Computing device determines based at least in part on data from presence sensitive display indicating information about the gesture that the gesture includes the gesture portion extending along gesture path into text input field which computing device processes as a cancellation gesture in this example. Computing device then responds to determining that the gesture includes the cancellation gesture extending along cancellation gesture path by omitting the candidate word formed by the preceding selected sequence of keys from entry to text input field such as by removing or deleting the candidate word from text input field .

In various examples a computing device may cancel a gesture input in response to an indication that the gesture indicates a path e.g. an input gesture path from within a graphical keyboard to an edge of the keyboard or to outside of the keyboard. For example gesture path shown in is a path that extends from within the graphical keyboard to outside the graphical keyboard. Computing device may determine that gesture path extends from within the graphical keyboard to outside the graphical keyboard and in response determine that gesture path has a cancellation feature and cancel the input of the selected keys determined from the earlier portion of gesture path . In other examples computing device may determine that a path that extends from within the graphical keyboard to an edge of the graphical keyboard constitutes a cancellation feature. In these examples computing device may determine that gesture path shown in extends from within graphical keyboard to the edge of graphical keyboard in particular at the top edge of the graphical key for the letter E as depicted in in this example . Computing device may then determine that gesture path has a cancellation feature because gesture path extends from within the graphical keyboard to an edge of the graphical keyboard.

In various examples a computing device may determine that a gesture input path that extends from within graphical keyboard to an edge of the graphical keyboard or to outside of the graphical keyboard has an input cancellation feature regardless of what part of the edge of the keyboard the path extends to or where outside of the graphical keyboard the path extends to. For example computing device may also receive an indication that the gesture path extends from within graphical keyboard to or outside of a top edge a left or right side edge or a bottom edge of graphical keyboard . Extending to an edge of or to outside of graphical keyboard may or may not also include extending to an edge of or extending outside of the area of a presence sensitive display or otherwise outside the range of a presence sensitive input device without affecting a determination by the computing device that the gesture input path has extended to an edge of or outside of graphical keyboard in various examples.

A computing device may implement any or all of the gesture cancellation features described with reference to and or other gesture cancellation features in execution of a graphical keyboard and enable a user to use any one or more gesture cancellation features to cancel a gesture. A computing device may enable one or more selected gesture cancellation features by default and may also enable one or more additional gesture cancellation features to be activated optionally by a user.

In process a device such as computing device or one or more processor s thereof for example may execute instructions such as those of graphical keyboard module and or gesture cancellation module . In the example below one or more processor s may execute graphical keyboard module and or gesture cancellation module as a representative example. In this example making reference to elements of the earlier figures a device such as one or more processor s may output for display at a presence sensitive display e.g. presence sensitive display a graphical user interface e.g. GUI comprising a graphical keyboard e.g. graphical keyboard that includes a group of keys wherein each key in the group of keys is associated with a respective different region of the presence sensitive display . The device such as one or more processor s may also receive an indication of a gesture to select a sequence of one or more keys within the group of keys of the graphical keyboard . The device such as one or more processor s may also determine based at least in part on the indication of the gesture that the gesture includes at least one feature associated with a cancellation of the selected sequence of one or more keys e.g. gesture cancellation features . The device such as one or more processor s may in response to determining that the gesture includes the at least one feature associated with the cancellation omit the selected sequence of one or more keys from entry to a text input field e.g. text input field . The device such as computing device or computing device components thereof e.g. one or more processor s or other processors or devices may further perform any of the functions and processes described with reference to and .

As shown in the example of computing device may be a processor or a set of processors e.g. a multiple core processor a chipset an arbitrarily distributed group of processors that are at least temporarily communicatively coupled etc. that includes functionality as described with respect to processor s of . In such examples computing device may be operatively coupled to an input and or output device such as presence sensitive display by a communication channel which may be a system bus communication fabric or other suitable connection from any proximate or remote location. Computing device may also be operatively coupled to communication unit further described below by a communication channel which may also be a system bus or other suitable connection. Although shown separately as an example in computing device may be at least temporarily operatively coupled to presence sensitive display and communication unit by any number of one or more communication channels.

In other examples such as illustrated previously with computing device in computing device may be an integrated device or system that includes both one or more processors and an input and or output device such as presence sensitive display as integrated or otherwise operatively coupled components of computing device . In examples such as these one or more processors of computing device may include functionality as described with respect to processor s of and may receive data from and send data to the presence sensitive display component of computing device . In various examples computing device may be or include a portable or mobile device such as a mobile phone e.g. a smartphone a tablet computer a laptop computer etc. In other examples computing device may be or include a desktop computer a tablet computer a smart television platform a camera a game console a personal digital assistant PDA a mainframe a data center a real or virtual server one or more devices executing a virtual server etc. In other examples computing device may include both a local device containing both one or more processors and an input and or output device e.g. a presence sensitive display as well as one or more processors that are operatively connected to but separate or remote from the local device or the input and or output device.

Presence sensitive display as shown in may be an implementation of presence sensitive display as shown in . Presence sensitive display may include display device and presence sensitive input device . Display device may for example receive data encoding graphical content from computing device and display the graphical content. In some examples presence sensitive input device may determine one or more user inputs e.g. continuous gestures multi touch or non contact multi indication gestures single touch or non contact single indication gestures etc. at presence sensitive display . In some examples presence sensitive input device may be physically positioned adjacent to e.g. in a transparent overlay with display device . As described above with reference to presence sensitive input device may be configured to detect touch gesture inputs and or contactless gesture inputs by visual infrared acoustic remote capacitance or other type of signals using capacitive inductive optical recognition and or other techniques. Presence sensitive input device may send indications of such contact or contactless user input gestures to computing device using communication channel . When a user makes an input gesture indicating the position of a graphical element displayed by display device presence sensitive input device may detect that the input gesture indicates the location of display device at which the graphical element is displayed.

As shown in computing device may also include and or be operatively coupled with communication unit . Communication unit may include functionality of communication unit s including network interface as described in reference to . Examples of communication unit may include a network interface card an Ethernet card an optical transceiver a radio frequency transceiver or any other type of device that can send and receive information. Other examples of such communication units may include Bluetooth 3G and WiFi radios Universal Serial Bus USB interfaces etc. Computing device may also include and or be operatively coupled with one or more other devices e.g. input devices output devices memory storage devices etc. that are not shown in for purposes of brevity and illustration.

Projector screen in some examples may include a presence sensitive display . Presence sensitive display may include a subset of functionality or all of the functionality of presence sensitive display as described in this disclosure. In some examples presence sensitive display may include additional functionality. Projector screen e.g. an electronic whiteboard may receive data encoding graphical content from computing device and display the graphical content. In some examples presence sensitive display may determine one or more user inputs e.g. continuous gestures multi touch gestures single touch gestures etc. at proximate to or within detection range of projector screen using capacitive inductive and or optical recognition techniques and send indications of such user input using one or more communication units to computing device .

As described above in some examples computing device may output graphical content for display at presence sensitive display that is coupled to computing device by a system bus or other suitable communication channel. Computing device may also output graphical content for display at one or more remote devices such as projector projector screen tablet device and visual display device . For instance computing device may execute one or more instructions to generate and or modify graphical content in accordance with techniques of the present disclosure. Computing device may output the data that encodes the graphical content to a communication unit of computing device such as communication unit . Communication unit may send the data to one or more of the remote devices such as projector projector screen tablet device and or visual display device . In this way computing device may output the graphical content for display at one or more of the remote devices. In some examples one or more of the remote devices may output the graphical content at a presence sensitive display that is included in and or operatively coupled to the respective remote devices.

In some examples computing device may not output graphical content at presence sensitive display that is operatively coupled to computing device . In other examples computing device may output graphical content for display at both a presence sensitive display that is coupled to computing device by communication channel and at one or more remote devices. In such examples the graphical content may be displayed substantially contemporaneously at each respective device. For instance some delay may be introduced by the communication latency to send the data that includes the graphical content to the remote device. In some examples graphical content generated by computing device and output for display at presence sensitive display may be different than graphical content display output for display at one or more remote devices.

Computing device may send and receive data using any suitable communication techniques. For example computing device may be operatively coupled to network using network link A. Each of the remote devices illustrated in may be operatively coupled to network by one of respective network links B C and D. Network may include network hubs network switches network routers etc. that are operatively inter coupled thereby providing for the exchange of information between computing device and the remote devices illustrated in . In some examples network links A D may include Ethernet Asynchronous Transfer Mode ATM or other network connections. Such connections may include wireless and or wired connections. Computing device e.g. all or a portion of a real or virtual server a data center etc. may be operatively coupled to remote devices of via network from any arbitrarily proximate or remote location.

In some examples computing device may be operatively coupled to one or more of the remote devices included in using direct device communication . Direct device communication may include communications through which computing device sends and receives data directly with a remote device using wired or wireless communication. That is in some examples of direct device communication data sent by computing device may not be forwarded by one or more additional devices before being received at the remote device and vice versa. Examples of direct device communication may include Bluetooth Near Field Communication NFC Universal Serial Bus USB Wi Fi Wi Gig infrared etc. One or more of the remote devices illustrated in may be operatively coupled with computing device by communication links A D. In some examples communication links A D may be connections using Bluetooth NFC USB Wi Fi Wi Gig infrared etc. Such connections may include wireless and or wired connections.

In accordance with techniques of the disclosure computing device may be operatively coupled to projector projector screen tablet device and or visual display device using network and or direct device communication . Computing device may output a graphical user interface including various graphical content at presence sensitive display of projector screen presence sensitive display of tablet device and or presence sensitive display of visual display device . Computing device may send data implementing a graphical keyboard enabled with gesture cancellation features to be outputted at presence sensitive display of projector screen presence sensitive display of tablet device and or presence sensitive display of visual display device collectively presence sensitive displays with gesture cancellation features based at least in part on receiving indications of user input gestures indicating cancellation of prior gesture inputs in accordance with one or more aspects of this disclosure. Presence sensitive displays are illustrative of any one or more presence sensitive displays of any arbitrary number of any kind of devices that may be operatively coupled to computing device .

In these examples corresponding to computing device may receive an indication of a user input gesture detected at a presence sensitive display e.g. presence sensitive display of projector screen presence sensitive display of tablet device and or presence sensitive display of visual display device operatively coupled to computing device such that the user input gesture comprises a motion with respect to the presence sensitive display. Presence sensitive displays may be operatively coupled to computing device via network or via direct device communication as described above. Projector projector screen tablet device and or visual display device may transmit data that includes an indication of a user input gesture including a gesture cancellation feature detected at presence sensitive displays respectively via network and or direct communication device to communication unit . Communication unit may receive the data including the indication of the gesture and communicate this data to computing device . In other examples another presence sensitive input device operatively coupled to computing device such as presence sensitive input device may remotely detect a user input gesture of a user interacting with projector screen tablet device and or visual display device . Presence sensitive input device may send data that includes an indication of a user input gesture including a gesture cancellation feature detected at presence sensitive input device to computing device .

Computing device may thus receive data that includes an indication of a user input gesture including a gesture cancellation feature detected at a presence sensitive input device. Computing device e.g. computing device or one or more processors forming part or all of computing device executing a gesture cancellation module e.g. gesture cancellation module described above with reference to may determine based at least in part on the indication of the gesture that the gesture includes at least one feature associated with a cancellation of the selected sequence of one or more keys e.g. gesture cancellation features . Computing device may in response to determining that the gesture includes the at least one feature associated with the cancellation omit the selected sequence of one or more keys from entry to a text input field e.g. text input field to be outputted at one or more of presence sensitive displays .

Computing device may then send data encoding a graphical user interface e.g. GUI incorporating gesture cancellation features to projector projector screen tablet device and or visual display device for output at presence sensitive display and or respectively. For example computing device may send this data to communication unit . Communication unit may then send the data via network and or direct device communication to projector projector screen tablet device and or visual display device . Projector projector screen tablet device and or visual display device may then output the graphical user interface modified in accordance with gesture cancellation features at presence sensitive displays and or respectively.

Various techniques described herein may be implemented in software that may be written in any of a variety of languages making use of any of a variety of toolsets frameworks APIs programming environments virtual machines libraries and other computing resources as indicated above. For example software code may be written in C C Go Python Ruby JavaScript Dart Clojure assembly language machine code or any other language. As one specific illustrative example aspects of the disclosure discussed above may be implemented in a software module written in a high level programming language that is executable on virtual machine of for example.

Aspects of the disclosure may be equally applicable and implemented in any computing device or any operating system and using any other APIs frameworks or toolsets. Aspects described herein for implementing a graphical keyboard with gesture cancellation may interact with any other data store or application. When implemented in software or firmware various techniques disclosed herein may be realized at least in part by a computer readable data storage medium comprising instructions that when executed cause a processor to perform one or more of the methods described above. For example the computer readable data storage medium may store such instructions for execution by a processor.

A computer readable medium may form part of a computer program product which may include packaging materials. A computer readable medium may comprise a computer data storage medium such as random access memory RAM read only memory ROM non volatile random access memory NVRAM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory magnetic or optical data storage media and the like. In various examples an article of manufacture may comprise one or more computer readable storage media.

In various examples the data storage devices and or memory may comprise computer readable storage media that comprise non transitory media. The term non transitory indicates that the storage medium is not embodied in a carrier wave or a propagated signal. In certain examples a non transitory storage medium may store data that can over time change e.g. in RAM or cache . Data storage devices may include any of various forms of volatile memory that may require being periodically electrically refreshed to maintain data in memory while those skilled in the art will recognize that this also constitutes an example of a physical tangible non transitory computer readable data storage device. Executable instructions may be stored on a non transitory medium when program code is loaded stored relayed buffered or cached on a non transitory physical medium or device including if only for only a short duration or only in a volatile memory format. In some examples executable instructions may not be stored permanently in the local data storage comprised in a computing device and may be received temporarily from an external resource such as from a web service data center and or other server side resource yet those executable instructions may still be buffered cached or otherwise stored temporarily in a buffer memory cache memory processor registers or other temporary memory comprised in the computing device. In these examples the computing device may still comprise a computer readable storage medium on which the executable instructions are stored even if only temporarily.

Machine readable code may be stored on the data storage devices and or memory and may include executable instructions that are executable by at least one processor. Machine readable code and executable instructions may refer to any form of software code including machine code assembly instructions or assembly language bytecode software code in C or software code written in any higher level programming language that may be compiled or interpreted into executable instructions that may be executable by at least one processor including software code written in languages that treat code as data to be processed or that enable code to manipulate or generate code.

The code or instructions may be software and or firmware executed by processing circuitry including one or more processors such as one or more digital signal processors DSPs general purpose microprocessors application specific integrated circuits ASICs field programmable gate arrays FPGAs or other integrated or discrete logic circuitry. Accordingly the term processor as used herein may refer to any of the foregoing structure or any other structure suitable for implementation of the techniques described herein. In addition in some aspects functionality described in this disclosure may be provided within software modules or hardware modules.

The various embodiments described above and depicted in as well as additional embodiments are within the scope of one or more of the following claims.

