---

title: In situ calibration of a light source in a sensor device
abstract: A sensor device is described herein, wherein the sensor device includes an optical measurement system, such as an interferometer. The sensor device further includes a low-power light source that is configured to emit an optical signal having a constant wavelength, wherein accuracy of a measurement output by the sensor device is dependent upon the optical signal having the constant wavelength. At least a portion of the optical signal is directed to a vapor cell, the vapor cell including an atomic species that absorbs light having the constant wavelength. A photodetector captures light that exits the vapor cell, and generates an electrical signal that is indicative of intensity of the light that exits the vapor cell. A control circuit controls operation of the light source based upon the electrical signal, such that the light source emits the optical signal with the constant wavelength.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09222810&OS=09222810&RS=09222810
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 09222810
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130919
---
This invention was developed under Contract DE AC04 94AL85000 between Sandia Corporation and the U.S. Department of Energy. The U.S. Government has certain rights in this invention.

Various sensor devices when used in certain applications must output measurement signals e.g. that describe a parameter such as temperature vibration etc. with high accuracy and resolution. For example a seismometer that is utilized to detect seismic events to be useful in many applications must output a measurement signal that is as accurate as possible with relatively high resolution.

Sensor devices configured to generate relatively accurate measurement signals often include an optical measurement system that is configured to measure displacement of an optical signal relative to a reference optical signal. For example a sensor device may include an interferometer which is generally configured to ascertain a difference between a reference optical signal and an optical signal that is indicative of a parameter that is desirably measured. Conventionally a light source corresponding to the sensor device that is utilized to generate the reference optical signal is calibrated offline e.g. in a laboratory environment prior to the sensor device being deployed. When the sensor device outputs measurements in the field an assumption is made that the operation of the light source has not changed. In other words an assumption is made that a wavelength of an optical signal emitted by the light source has not drifted or that the drift is accepted . This assumption is typically made for some period of time e.g. one month and thereafter the sensor device is removed from operation and the light source is recalibrated.

It can be ascertained that operation of a sensor device in this manner is less than ideal. Specifically immediately after the sensor device is deployed an assumption is made pertaining to measurement signals output by the sensor device e.g. that the wavelength of the signal emitted by the light source has not changed since the light source was calibrated . Furthermore when recalibration of the light source is undertaken the sensor device is removed from the field thereby requiring redundant sensor devices or a time period where no measurements are being generated.

The following is a brief summary of subject matter that is described in greater detail herein. This summary is not intended to be limiting as to the scope of the claims.

Described herein are various technologies pertaining to in situ calibration of a light source in a sensor device wherein the sensor device comprises an optical measurement system such as an interferometer or an optical resonator such as an etalon etc. As used herein the term interferometer is intended to encompass an interferometer and an optical resonator. The sensor device can be for example a microphone a magnetometer an accelerometer a gyroscope a seismometer a gravimeter or other suitable sensor device that comprises an optical measurement system that is configured to output a relatively high accuracy high resolution measurement. It can therefore be ascertained that the sensor device employs a stable reference optical signal in connection with outputting a measurement of a particular parameter such as pressure temperature humidity or any other parameter that can be related to an accurate stable reference signal.

In the sensor device a monochromatic light source e.g. such as a vertical cavity surface emitting laser VCSEL is configured to emit an optical signal. The sensor device further includes a calibration system that receives the optical signal wherein for example the calibration system can include at least one beam splitter that splits the optical signal into a reference signal and a second optical signal wherein the reference signal desirably has a wavelength that remains constant over time. The optical measurement system receives the reference signal and can output a relatively highly accurate highly resolute measurement of a parameter based at least in part upon the reference signal.

The calibration system further includes a filter that receives at least a portion of the second optical signal. The filter is configured to absorb light having the constant wavelength and as such may perform a filtering function. For example the filter can be a vapor cell that comprises an atomic species that is configured to absorb light having the constant wavelength accordingly the constant wavelength can be an absolute reference. A photodetector can be positioned to capture an optical signal that exits the vapor cell. At least one value can be read from the photodetector wherein the at least one value is indicative of intensity of the optical signal captured by the photodetector. If the optical signal emitted by the light source has drifted and thus the reference signal has drifted the intensity of the optical signal captured by the photodetector will be higher when compared to the intensity of the optical signal captured by the photodetector when the light source emits the optical signal having the constant wavelength. Accordingly the light source can be controlled based upon the at least one value read from the photodetector such that the light source is calibrated in situ.

The above summary presents a simplified summary in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects of the systems and or methods discussed herein. This summary is not an extensive overview of the systems and or methods discussed herein. It is not intended to identify key critical elements or to delineate the scope of such systems and or methods. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

Various technologies pertaining to in situ calibration of a light source included in a sensor device are now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of one or more aspects. It may be evident however that such aspect s may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing one or more aspects.

Moreover the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or. That is unless specified otherwise or clear from the context the phrase X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is the phrase X employs A or B is satisfied by any of the following instances X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from the context to be directed to a singular form.

With reference now to an exemplary sensor device that is configured to output a relatively high resolution and highly accurate measurement with respect to a particular parameter is illustrated. For example the sensor device can be a microphone a magnetometer an accelerometer a thermometer a gyroscope a seismometer a gravimeter etc. The sensor device is configured to output a sensor signal wherein such signal can be a measurement of the parameter. Accordingly the sensor signal can be indicative of temperature corresponding to the sensor device pressure corresponding to the sensor device vibration corresponding to the sensor device etc.

In connection with outputting a high resolution measurement the sensor device can include an optical measurement system such as an interferometer . Although the sensor device is shown in the figure as including the interferometer it is to be understood that the sensor device may include an alternative or an additional optical measurement system. The sensor device additionally includes a light source that is configured to output an optical signal a portion of which is received by the interferometer as a reference signal. In an exemplary embodiment the light source may be any suitable microscale light source and or monochromatic light laser such as a vertical cavity surface emitting laser VCSEL . The interferometer can include suitable optics that facilitate outputting a measurement signal based upon the reference signal. The interferometer can include a beam splitter not shown in the figure that splits the reference signal into two light waves. The interferometer can further include a mirror physical displacements of which are indicated by the measurement signal in response to changes in the optical interference between the two light waves. Errors in the measurement signal can occur however if the amplitude or frequency of the reference signal changes. Thus it is desirable to stabilize the light source and or identify frequency and amplitude changes of the reference signal thereby allowing for correction of the measurement signal.

It is advantageous to employ stabilizing techniques to assure that the light source will output the optical signal with a constant wavelength over time referred to herein as the constant wavelength . More specifically the interferometer can as explained above receive a reference signal which is at least a portion of the optical signal emitted from the light source . It will be understood from the preceding discussion that stabilization is desirable so that the reference signal emitted by the light source will have the constant wavelength. As noted above the interferometer utilizes conventional techniques to measure a displacement of a mirror based upon the reference signal.

The sensor device additionally includes a calibration system that receives the optical signal emitted from the light source and calibrates the light source and or the measurement signal in situ responsive to receiving the optical signal from the light source . In an exemplary embodiment the calibration system can calibrate the light source based upon an absolute reference. For instance it may be desirable for the light source to output an optical signal having a constant wavelength that corresponds to the absorption frequency of a particular atomic species e.g. about 842 nm regardless of operating conditions pertaining to the sensor device .

Generally based upon the optical signal output by the light source the calibration system can control at least one parameter pertaining to the light source that stabilizes the light source e.g. that causes the light source to emit optical signals at the constant wavelength. In an exemplary embodiment the calibration system can be configured to control a drive signal of the light source wherein a wavelength of the optical signal emitted by the light source is a function of the drive signal. The drive signal can be a drive current that is configured to heat or cool a stage upon which the light source e.g. laser is mounted a drive current that is configured to cause the light source to generate more or less light a voltage that is applied to alter an electric field corresponding to the light source or the like. In another exemplary embodiment the calibration system can be configured to control a temperature corresponding to the light source wherein a wavelength of the optical signal emitted by the light source is a function of the temperature corresponding to the light source .

The sensor device exhibits many advantages over conventional sensor devices and calibration techniques. For instance it can be ascertained that the light source and the calibration system can be integrated into the sensor device . In contrast in conventional approaches a light source and or calibration system are external to the sensor device. Furthermore conventionally a calibration system resides in a laboratory environment such that to calibrate a light source of a sensor device the sensor device is removed from the field. Additionally conventional sensor devices and or calibration systems tend to consume relatively large amounts of power. Pursuant to an example a conventional calibration system can employ a large benchtop laser that consumes a watt or more of power to emit optical signals. In contrast since the light source can be a microscale light source such as a VCSEL power consumed by the light source to emit an optical signal may be between 1 mW and 20 mW. Further the calibration system may be included in a housing that fits within an envelope of lateral dimensions between 0.5 and 3 inches or less which is about one fourth the lateral extent of conventional calibration systems. The relatively small size of the calibration system allows the calibration system to be readily incorporated in the sensor device .

In another exemplary embodiment in addition to controlling the parameter related to the light source or as an alternative to controlling the parameter related to the light source the calibration system can be employed to correct measurement signals output by the interferometer. For example the calibration system can be configured to detect changes in frequency and or changes in amplitude of the optical signal emitted by the light source and can correct a measurement signal output by the interferometer based upon the detected changes in frequency and or changes in amplitude.

With reference now to an exemplary depiction of the calibration system is illustrated. As noted above the light source emits an optical signal wherein the optical signal desirably has a constant stabilized wavelength and amplitude. The calibration system can include a first beam splitter that is configured to split the optical signal into a reference signal and a second optical signal . The interferometer receives the reference signal and outputs a measurement signal based at least in part upon the reference signal .

The calibration system may further optionally include a second beam splitter that splits the second optical signal into a first test signal and a second test signal . In an exemplary embodiment the second test signal can be a relatively small portion of the optical signal emitted by the light source . For example the second test signal may be between 2 and 7 of the optical signal emitted by the light source . Accordingly between 2 and 7 of power driving the light source is used to generate the second test signal .

The calibration system can optionally include a first photodetector that is positioned relative to the second beam splitter to capture the first test signal and emit an electrical signal responsive to capturing the first test signal . In an exemplary embodiment the first photodetector can be employed to measure an amplitude of the first test signal and thus an amplitude of the optical signal and the reference signal . A noise reduction circuit can receive the electrical signal from the first photodetector and can reduce mode noise in a measurement generated by the interferometer based upon the electrical signal received from the first photodetector . With more particularity the noise reduction circuit can receive a measurement signal from the interferometer and the electrical signal from the first photodetector and compute a ratio signal which is the measurement signal divided by the electrical signal from the first photodetector . The noise reduction circuit can thereafter subtract the ratio signal from the measurement signal thereby reducing mode noise in the measurement signal. Further alterations in the electrical signal from the first photodetector over time can be identified and used in connection with stabilizing the light source .

The calibration system may further optionally include a mirror that reflects the second test signal . A filter is positioned relative to the mirror to receive the second test signal subsequent to the second test signal being reflected by the mirror . The filter is intended to encompass any suitable system that can at a relatively high resolution be used in determining whether the second test signal has the constant wavelength. In an example the filter can include a vapor cell that comprises an atomic species that absorbs light photons at a particular wavelength that has been designated to be the constant wavelength. For instance the vapor cell may include a cesium atomic species having an absorption line of approximately 852 nm. In such an example the constant wavelength of light desirably emitted by the light source is the absorption wavelength of the cesium atomic species. While not shown the vapor cell may be included in a temperature controlled cavity thus allowing the constant wavelength to be absolute. With more particularity since the absorption frequency of the atomic species can vary as a function of temperature holding temperature of the vapor cell constant can cause the absorption frequency of the atomic species in the vapor cell to remain constant. In another example the filter may be or include an optical resonator such as a Fabry Perot etalon or a ring resonator. When the filter is an optical resonator light having a particular resonant frequency e.g. having a constant wavelength is selectively transmitted from the optical resonator. That is if light provided to the optical resonator has the particular resonant frequency the optical resonator selectively transmits such light. Moreover amplitude of the light exiting the optical resonator depends upon amplitude of the light entering the optical resonator.

The calibration system further includes a second photodetector that is positioned relative to the filter to capture light that exits the filter . The second photodetector generates a second electrical signal responsive to capturing light that exits the filter the second electrical signal being indicative of an intensity of the light captured by the second photodetector . Thus if the filter includes a vapor cell it can be ascertained that when the light source emits the optical signal at the absorption wavelength of the vapor cell the vapor cell will absorb such light causing the second photodetector to capture a relatively small amount of light. Thus a value of the second electrical signal output by the second photodetector is indicative of whether or not the light source is emitting the optical signal at the constant wavelength e.g. the absorption wavelength of the vapor cell . That is when the wavelength of the optical signal has drifted then at least a portion of the second test signal passes through the vapor cell and is captured by the second photodetector which generates the second electrical signal with a value that indicates that drift has occurred.

If the filter includes an optical resonator it can be ascertained that when the light source emits the optical signal at the resonant frequency of the optical resonator a relatively large amount of light will exit the optical resonator and be captured by the second photodetector . Accordingly a value of the second electrical signal output by the second photodetector is indicative of whether or not the light source is emitting the optical signal at the constant wavelength e.g. the resonant frequency of the optical resonator .

A control circuit is electrically coupled to the second photodetector and receives the second electrical signal generated by the second photodetector . The control circuit can also optionally be electrically coupled to the first photodetector and can receive the first electrical signal generated by the first photodetector . The control circuit controls at least one parameter pertaining to the light source based upon the second electrical signal received from the second photodetector and optionally the first electrical signal received from the first photodetector . For instance if the filter is an optical resonator alteration in amplitude of the optical signal can change a value of the electrical signal output by the second photodetector even if the frequency of the optical signal remains constant. Thus in an exemplary embodiment the control circuit can control the at least one parameter pertaining to the light source based upon the electrical signal output by the first photodetector and the second electrical signal output by the second photodetector .

In an example the control circuit can control a drive signal provided to the light source . Thus the control circuit can control the drive signal in connection with controlling temperature corresponding to the light source . In another example the control circuit can control the drive signal in connection with controlling an amount of light generated by the light source . In still yet another example the control circuit can control the drive signal in connection with controlling an amount of light generated by the light source and temperature corresponding to the light source . Generally then the control circuit controls the at least one parameter of the light source to mitigate drift corresponding to the optical signal emitted by the light source e.g. to maintain the optical signal at the constant wavelength .

In an exemplary embodiment the control circuit can be implemented as a general purpose processor e.g. CPU that is programmed to control operation of the light source as described above. In another example the control circuit can be implemented as a Field programmable Gate Array FPGA an Application specific Integrated Circuit ASIC an Application specific Standard Product ASSP a System on a chip SOC a Complex Programmable Logic Device CPLD etc.

In another exemplary embodiment the noise reduction circuit can correct a measurement signal output by the interferometer based upon the electrical signal output by the first photodetector and the electrical signal output by the second photodetector . For instance generally output of the first photodetector can be monitored to identify an alteration in amplitude of the first test signal over time and thus an alteration in amplitude of the reference signal over time and output of the second photodetector can be monitored to identify an alteration in frequency of the second test signal over time and thus an alteration in frequency of the reference signal over time . The noise reduction circuit can correct a measurement signal output by the interferometer based upon the identified alteration in amplitude and or frequency of the reference signal .

The first photodetector and or the second photodetector can be or include any suitable type of photodetector including but not limited to a complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS sensor a charge coupled device CCD sensor a photodiode a reverse biased light emitting diode LED a photoresistor a photovoltaic cell a phototube a phototransistor etc.

In an exemplary embodiment for purposes of ease of manufacturing and or assembly the first photodetector and the second photodetector may be coplanar in the sensor device . Further for instance the first photodetector and the second photodetector may reside on a common substrate. Additionally as indicated above the second beam splitter the first photodetector and the mirror are optionally included in the calibration system . Pursuant to an example the filter can be positioned relative to the first beam splitter to receive the second optical signal directly and the second beam splitter the first photodetector and the mirror can be removed from the calibration system . In another example the filter can be positioned relative to the second beam splitter to directly receive the second test signal so that mirror for example may be omitted from the calibration system .

With reference now to an exemplary depiction of the filter is illustrated wherein the filter is a vapor cell. As shown the vapor cell can receive the second test signal . A first mirror can be positioned to reflect any portion of the second test signal not absorbed by the vapor cell back through the vapor cell. A second mirror can be positioned to again reflect any portion of the test signal not absorbed during the first two passes therethrough back through the vapor cell. The second photodetector is positioned relative to the vapor cell to capture any portion of the second test signal that has not been absorbed after three traversals through the vapor cell. Inclusion of the first mirror and the second mirror with the vapor cell effectively extends the interaction length of the vapor cell. Therefore size length of the vapor cell can be reduced when the first mirror and the second mirror are positioned as shown in . In an exemplary embodiment the vapor cell can have a length L between 0.5 cm and 1 cm which can allow for further miniaturization of the calibration system . While the vapor cell is shown as having the two mirrors and associated therewith it is to be understood that more or fewer mirrors may be associated with the vapor cell depending upon a length of the vapor cell and a desired interaction length with the second test signal .

Now referring to an exemplary graph that depicts intensity of the light captured by the second photodetector when the filter is a vapor cell relative to a value of a control parameter e.g. drive signal used to control operation of the light source is illustrated. As shown as a value of the control parameter is changed an intensity of light captured by the second photodetector e.g. a value of the second electrical signal is likewise changed. Thus the control circuit can be configured to control operation of the light source based upon first order detection of lowest light throughput through the vapor cell thereby allowing wavelength of light emitted by the light source to be precisely adjusted.

Turning now to an exemplary graph that depicts a derivative of the intensity of light captured by the second photodetector when the filter is a vapor cell relative to the value of the control parameter is illustrated. In an exemplary embodiment a value of the control parameter that yields a minimum on the graph can be used by the control circuit to control operation of the light source .

Now referring solely to an exemplary methodology for calibrating in situ a light source of a sensor device that is configured to provide a reference signal to an interferometer is illustrated. The methodology starts at and at the light source is driven to emit an optical signal. At least a portion of the optical signal is directed to the interferometer as the reference signal wherein the reference signal desirably has a constant wavelength. For instance the constant wavelength can be an absolute reference. At it is identified that a wavelength of the reference signal has drifted from the constant wavelength.

At the light source is calibrated in real time and in situ responsive to identifying that the wavelength of the reference signal has drifted from the constant wavelength. Calibrating the light source includes causing the wavelength of the reference signal to have the constant wavelength. For instance a drive signal provided to the light source can be controlled to cause the light source to emit the optical signal with the constant wavelength. The methodology completes at .

With reference to an exemplary methodology that facilitates controlling a drive signal corresponding to a light source in a sensor device is illustrated. The methodology starts at and at the light source is driven to emit an optical signal. At the optical signal is split into a reference signal and a first signal. For example a first beam splitter can be employed to split the optical signal into the reference signal and the first signal.

At the first signal is split into a first test signal and a second test signal. At noise in a measurement signal output by an interferometer in the sensor device is reduced based upon the first test signal. For example a first photodetector can be configured to capture the first test signal and emit an electrical signal responsive to capturing the first test signal wherein the electrical signal is indicative of intensity of the first signal. The electrical signal can be used to reduce mode noise in a measurement signal output by the interferometer.

At the second test signal is directed through a vapor cell. For instance a mirror can be positioned to cause the second test signal to enter the vapor cell. Moreover several mirrors can be positioned relative to the vapor cell to extend the interaction length of light passing through the vapor cell. At light exiting the vapor cell is captured using a second photodetector. At a second electrical signal generated by the second photodetector is received wherein the second electrical signal is indicative of intensity of the light captured by the second photodetector. At the drive signal corresponding to the light source is controlled based at least in part upon the second electrical signal. The methodology completes at .

What has been described above includes examples of one or more embodiments. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable modification and alteration of the above devices or methodologies for purposes of describing the aforementioned aspects but one of ordinary skill in the art can recognize that many further modifications and permutations of various aspects are possible. Accordingly the described aspects are intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. Furthermore to the extent that the term includes is used in either the details description or the claims such term is intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as comprising is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim.

