---

title: Using cross-domain communication to serve cloud-based product catalog pages from a seller's domain
abstract: Methods, systems, computer-readable media, and apparatuses are presented for using cross-domain communication to allow manufacturers and other sellers to use cloud/Internet-based products catalog services without sacrificing the search-engine optimization benefit of catalog pages hosted within the manufacturer's domain. The Same Origin Policy used by many browsers may disallow direct communication to the manufacturer's domain for corporate web site and other functions, on the one hand, and an external domain for an efficiently hosted products catalog, on the other. Some embodiments present the use of the JSONP protocol for cross-domain retrieval of a Catalog Widget that is configured to retrieve product catalog information directly from the external domain. In these embodiments, search-engine optimization is furthered by the efficient production of numerous catalog pages that originate from the external domain yet appear to users and search engine crawlers to be within the manufacturer's domain.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09430792&OS=09430792&RS=09430792
owner: Catalog Data Solutions, Inc.
number: 09430792
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130315
---
The present patent application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 623 227 filed Apr. 12 2012 titled USING CROSS DOMAIN COMMUNICATION TO SERVE CLOUD BASED PRODUCT CATALOG PAGES FROM A SELLER S DOMAIN. The contents of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 623 227 are incorporated by reference herein.

Almost since the Internet has come into being businesses have been using it in an attempt to sell their merchandise. Using search engines people potential buyers can enter queries that will cause those search engines to return to those people references to web pages that are relevant to those queries. The references returned typically will be ranked based upon some ranking algorithm used by the search engine. Such an algorithm can involve some measure of relevance e.g. how many words of the query occurred within a web page and or a quantity of times that each such word occurred within the web page but it may also involve a measure of a quantity of web pages that are known to be associated with a particular Internet domain. As used herein an Internet domain comprises the last two parts separated by a period of a domain name in a Uniform Resource Identifier URL which comes before any single characters in the URL. For example in the URL www.catalogdatasolutions.com the top level domain is .com and the Internet domain is catalogdatasolutions.com. Many different web pages may be served by a web server that is owned and operated by the particular business to which this Internet domain is registered. Each of these web pages may have URLs that differ but which are prefaced by the same identifier of this Internet domain. A subdomain of a web page also can be relevant. For example catalog.acme.com is in a different subdomain than www.acme.com. The subdomain typically precedes the Internet domain in the URL. Some very well known and popular search engines give great weighting in their ranking algorithms to the quantity of web pages that have URLs that are prefaced by the same Internet domain identifier and that are in the same subdomain. Thus such search engines may place most foremost in their list of search results references to web pages having Internet domains and subdomains that are associated with the highest quantities of web pages and which are to some extent still relevant to the query . Unfortunately this can mean that smaller websites have a slimmer chance of having their web pages discovered by search engine users and the businesses that own and operate those websites may have a correspondingly slimmer chance of selling their products to those search engine users.

Certain embodiments are described that involve using cross domain communication to serve cloud based product catalog pages from a seller s supplier s domain. In one or more embodiments the seller supplier may be a manufacturer such as a product manufacturer. A typical seller supplier contracts with a catalog provider to implement and run an online catalog on the supplier s website. If the catalog provider is a running a SaaS or cloud implementation then the online catalog is not running on the seller supplier s website and the seller s suppliers main URL e.g. www.supplier.com is therefore not used when displaying the catalog pages. A typical implementation will use a CNAME DNS or alias record to display the catalog pages on the seller s supplier s website. The website www.supplier.com will typically use www.catalog.supplier.com to display catalog pages on their website. Because of this the seller supplier does not receive credit for the pages as the search engines know that DNS is an alias and the catalog pages resides on a separate site. As discussed in greater detail below the rank of a manufacturer s seller s supplier s website page in a web search engine s search results is in many situations directly proportional to the number of web pages hosted on the manufacturer s website s domain and or subdomain e.g. the total number of web pages making up the website the greater the number of pages the higher the rank. In some instances a manufacturer s website may serve one or more webpages that include an embedded Product Catalog Widget which may allow catalog pages that are dynamically generated by a cloud based catalog provider to be viewed e.g. in an end user s web browser . Embodiments of the disclosure cause search engine crawlers to see web pages provided by a Product Catalog Widget as being hosted on the manufacturer s website s domain and or subdomain rather than on an external domain e.g. a domain hosting a website of a Partner providing the Product Catalog Widget . This allows a manufacturer to increase the rank of their web pages in search results from various search engines while still allowing the manufacturer to use a third party partner to produce and host the pages that make up the Products Catalog. Embodiments of the invention allow a SaaS or a cloud based catalog provider to provide all the catalog pages on the supplier s seller s manufacturer s main domain e.g. www.supplier.com . This in turn provides a higher number of relevant pages on the supplier s seller s manufacturer s website and therefore a higher ranking by the search engines.

Certain embodiments of the invention use the JavaScript Object Notation with padding JSONP protocol. In some embodiments a request for a product locator catalog page may be received at a server computer hosting a website for a product manufacturer. Subsequently the server computer may request via a JSONP catalog service proxy the product locator catalog page from one or more cloud catalog servers. The server computer then may receive via the JSONP catalog service proxy the product locator catalog page and the product locator catalog page may include an embedded catalog widget. Subsequently the server computer may serve the product locator catalog page.

In some embodiments the embedded catalog widget may be configured to allow a user device receiving the product locator catalog page to search a products catalog hosted on the one or more cloud catalog servers.

In some embodiments the server computer further may receive a request for a product detail page. Subsequently the server computer may request via the JSONP catalog service proxy the product detail page from the one or more cloud catalog servers. The server computer then may receive via the JSONP catalog service proxy the product detail page from the one or more cloud catalog servers. Subsequently the server computer may serve the product detail page.

In some embodiments the product detail page may be dynamically generated by the one or more cloud catalog servers based on the request received from the server computer.

In the following description for the purposes of explanation specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the invention. However it will be apparent that various embodiments may be practiced without these specific details.

Certain embodiments of the present invention relate to using cross domain communication to serve cloud based product catalog pages from a seller s domain. As noted above in some instances a seller or manufacturer may serve one or more webpages that include an embedded Product Catalog Widget which may allow catalog pages that are dynamically generated by a cloud based catalog provider to be viewed e.g. in an end user s web browser . Such a Product Catalog Widget thus can manage querying and retrieval of products information from a cloud based Products Catalog. Before describing these aspects in greater detail an example of a typical Manufacturer s IT Landscape will be summarized. illustrates an example of this landscape.

In a Manufacturer s Networked IT Environment is shown. The Manufacturer s Networked IT Environment may include Ethernet connected servers data stores client computers and end users. The Manufacturer can use this environment for a variety of internal uses such as hosting customer facing Corporate Web Site pages. There may be advantages in cost and labor efficiency to the Manufacturer having the full control enabled by hosting such content and functions in a proximate location. At the same time it may be advantageous for the Manufacturer to offer customers within the context of their web site complex services that may be most efficiently produced and hosted by Partners externally in the cloud . These two environments can interact with one another via standard internet communication .

Another actor in the landscape is the Search Engine Crawler a program e.g. a bot that can access publically accessible web pages index them and assign them priority ranking in results of searches performed by end users. The cross domain communication techniques described herein allow for all web pages associated with the Manufacturer to be assigned high ranking in Search Engine search results.

In particular the rank of a manufacturer s website page in a web search engine s search results is in many situations directly proportional to the number of web pages hosted on the manufacturer s website s domain e.g. the total number of web pages making up the website . For example if a first webpage that includes information about a particular product is hosted on a first domain and a second webpage that includes similar information about the same product is hosted on a second domain that hosts more pages e.g. other webpages than the first domain then the second webpage may be ranked more highly by a search engine in a search for information about the particular product. Because embodiments of the disclosure cause search engine crawlers to see web pages provided by the Product Catalog Widget as being hosted on the manufacturer s website s domain rather than on an external domain e.g. a domain hosting a website of the Partner providing the Product Catalog Widget these embodiments enable a manufacturer to increase the rank of their web pages in search results from various search engines while still being able to use a third party partner to produce and host the pages that make up the Products Catalog.

This section describes techniques according to some embodiments of the invention by which a Manufacturer may source Product Catalog pages from an externally provided Partner Web Service while allowing those pages to appear to end users and Search Engine Crawlers to be within the Manufacturer s internet domain. In one embodiment the Products Catalog Widget implements this technique using JSONP cross domain communication to ensure that both Corporate Web Site pages and externally hosted Products Catalog pages are indexed within the Manufacturer s domain thereby optimizing the ranking of those pages within Search Engine search results. Other techniques may be used in alternative embodiments.

When the User is viewing Product categories served in a web page from the Manufacturer s Corporate Web Site he or she may select a category which indirectly requests that the Cloud Servers return a Product Locator catalog page containing the Product Catalog Widget . This Widget may be a set of scripts that enable the Product Locator to be used to search efficiently for products in the catalog e.g. by specifying product attributes using the Product Locator user interface on the Client Computer .

The Product Locator page and the Catalog Widget may be sourced from the external Cloud Catalog Web Servers domain using the JSONP protocol for cross domain communication. The initial request for a Product Catalog page may be received by the Manufacturer Site Services which request that the JSONP Catalog Service Proxy make a cross domain request to the Cloud Catalog Web Service application programming interface API for the Product Locator information and embedded Catalog Widget which are then retrieved from the Cloud Catalog Web Services . The Product Locator page information and Catalog Widget may be returned to the JSONP Service Proxy and then to the Manufacturer Web Site Services which may render the Product Catalog Locator page and serve it to the Client Computer web browser for display.

The User may then use the Catalog Widget user interface to specify attribute criteria in order to identify his or her preferred product. The Widget may send these criteria to the Cloud Catalog Web Service API which makes a request to the Cloud Catalog Web Service to get products satisfying criteria specified by the User using the Product Locator. The Cloud Catalog Web Service logic determines the product set conforming to the specified characteristics and returns a list of the products satisfying these criteria to the Catalog Widget which then renders the updated Product Locator page for display in the Manufacturer Site page . This process may be invoked iteratively as often as is needed for the User to identify the product satisfying his or her criteria. In an embodiment of the invention the criteria can include a part number a manufacturer identity a year of manufacture a part type screw bolt nut etc. a current price range for the product or part whether the product or part is in stock at a local store within a specified distance of a current location of User and or other criteria.

Once the User has identified a product satisfying his or her criteria he or she may request that a Catalog Product Detail page be shown for that product. The User can do this by selecting the appropriate link on the Product Locator page which requests this page from the Manufacturer Site Services which in turn request that the Catalog Service Proxy retrieve the appropriate Part Detail information via the Cloud Catalog Services API with a request to the Cloud Catalog Services. The appropriate Product Detail information may be assembled by logic in the Cloud Catalog Services and returned to Manufacturer Web Site Services which creates the Product Detail page using this returned product specific information and serves it to the browser for viewing by the User . The Product Detail information can include information such as an identity of a catalog in which the product or part appeared a page number on which that product or part appeared a year in which that product or part was manufactured a unique product or part identifier an identity of the manufacturer of that product or part a set of local stores and their street addresses phone numbers and or website URLs at which the product or part is currently in stock current real time prices of the product or part at those stores current real time quantities of the product or part in stock at those stores a list of related products or parts viewed and or purchased by others who viewed or purchased that product or part a link to information concerning a new product or part that has obsoleted the selected product or part attributes of the part etc. The Product Detail information can also include a three dimensional computer aided design CAD model of the product or part with which User can interact by zooming rotating or downloading or directly inserting a CAD file of the product in the correct format into their existing CAD design. Part attributes can include facts about a part such as length weight color maximum pressure etc. The attributes that a particular part has can vary based on the type of that part. For example a caster might have attributes such as wheel diameter tread width load weight etc. while a gear might have attributes such as number of grooves tooth pitch flange diameter etc. In an embodiment the Cloud Catalog Services can be queried for parts that have part attributes that are specified by the User . For example the Cloud Catalog Web Service logic can determine a product set that has the part attributes that are specified by the User .

In Configuration A both the Corporate Web Site Servers and the Catalog Servers are maintained by the Manufacturer and all pages may be served within its home domain .

In Configuration B both systems are hosted in the cloud by a Partner and again all pages for the Corporate Site and the Product Catalog may be served from the same domain .

In Configuration C the corporate web site is hosted by the manufacturer and the catalog system is hosted in the cloud by a Partner and pages from each of these systems may be delivered to the User from different domains .

In configuration D techniques according to some embodiments of the invention are used. In this configuration the Manufacturer maintained Servers may both deliver pages and act as an intermediary between the User s Client Computer and the Catalog Servers maintained by a Partner in the cloud.

Configuration A may provide the advantage of offering the manufacturer web site maintenance flexibility and the Search Engine Optimization SEO advantage of all catalog pages within the same internet domain owned by the manufacturer. However Configuration A may have the disadvantage that the manufacturer cannot gain the cost and maintenance efficiency advantages of having the complex catalog system hosted on Partner servers in the cloud.

Configuration B may be considered the reverse of Configuration A. It may have the same SEO advantage as Configuration A since both web site and catalog are in the manufacturer s domain. However because that domain is externally hosted by a cloud based Partner the solution can be less flexible and cost effective for the manufacturer.

In Configuration C the Manufacturer Web Site and Catalog Servers are hosted in different locations and their pages are in different domains. This configuration may allow the manufacturer needed flexibility and control in maintaining their corporate web site and at the same time may provide the cost efficiencies of an externally hosted catalog solution. However since the catalog pages are not in the manufacturer s domain they might not contribute to SEO page rank for the manufacturer.

Configuration D is similar to Configuration C but with a significant difference. The manufacturer s web site and catalog are hosted at different locations thereby providing the advantages cited for Configuration C. However because Configuration D uses cross domain JSONP based invocation of catalog services from a Partner the catalog pages appear to the user and to search engine indexing programs bots as being in the manufacturer s domain. This can contribute substantially to the manufacturer s search engine results page rank thereby conferring a major business advantage.

The configurations depicted in and described above are not intended to be limiting. Various other configurations are possible in alternative embodiments.

As seen in the computer system may include a processor which may be interconnected to other components of the computer system via system bus . This interconnection may enable processor to execute instructions stored in memory for example and control other components of the computer system such as network interface one or more input devices and one or more output devices . Network interface may facilitate communication with other computer systems and may include wired network interfaces such as an Ethernet interface and or wireless network interfaces such as an IEEE 802.11 interface. Input devices may include peripheral devices such as one or more keyboards mice microphones and or the like and output devices may include various output subsystems such as one or more displays speakers and or the like. Other components may be similarly coupled to and or otherwise implemented in computer system .

Although the invention has been described with respect to specific embodiments it will be appreciated that the invention is intended to cover all modifications and equivalents within the scope of the following claims. Any and or all of the techniques methods and or method steps discussed above can implemented in software e.g. programs code instructions hardware or combinations thereof. The software may be stored on a non transitory storage medium e.g. the memory discussed above and when executed by one or more processors may cause a computer system to perform one or more of the techniques methods and or method steps. Additionally or alternatively in some embodiments any and or all of the software may leverage a Software as a Service SaaS model in which one or more methods and or method steps are executed and or otherwise performed in the cloud e.g. at a web server in order to provide various functionality to a remote end user e.g. at the user s web browser .

