---

title: Technique for processing cartographic data for determining energy-saving routes
abstract: A technique is described for determining an energy-saving route between two geographic positions on the basis of predefined cartographic data, the cartographic data describing a real traffic route network in the form of route segments and route nodes. A method aspect comprises the steps of subdividing the route segments provided for a route calculation into route segment portions that each have a predefined speed profile, providing an energy consumption value to be expected for each of the route segment portions, on the basis of the respectively assigned speed profile, and calculating weights for the respective route segments on the basis of the energy consumption values provided for the route segment portions, wherein the weights can be used to determine the energy-saving route in the context of the route calculation.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09062984&OS=09062984&RS=09062984
owner: ELEKTROBIT AUTOMOTIVE GmbH
number: 09062984
owner_city: Erlangen
owner_country: DE
publication_date: 20130822
---
The present disclosure relates in general to the determination of energy saving routes. In particular it specifies a technique for determining energy saving routes on the basis of suitably processed geographic data.

Methods for calculating routes between two or more predefined geographic positions e.g. by input of start point destination point and or intermediate destinations are generally known. In these cases calculated routes are normally determined as graphs of nodes and route segments wherein frequently intersections or junctions correspond to the nodes and portions between adjacent intersections or junctions correspond to the route segments.

Route segments and nodes may be described more fully by additional attributes that indicate for example a length of portions a portion type a maximum allowable travel speed a direction of travel type of intersection etc. A route segment algorithm can use these attributes to determine weights for individual route segments on the basis of which the optimum route is calculated. However such weights can also be already fixedly assigned to the route segments and nodes in the cartographic data.

Frequently search algorithms implement various search options according to which it is possible to search for an optimized route between two selected positions. For example selection of the option fastest route results in searching for a route having the shortest travel time which does not necessarily at the same time have to be the route having the shortest distance. Such a refined search is made possible in that the route search algorithm gives preference for example to route segments for motorway portions over other route segments of the road network appropriately modifying the weights of these portions increasing or reducing them according to the algorithm . Depending on the search option selected a user can thus effect a search for a route between two or more positions that satisfies the quite particular travel criteria.

Known from DE 10 2010 027 777 A1 is a method for determining a consumption optimized route between a start point and a destination point in which energy consumption information is assigned to each route portion. The energy consumption information represents an additional consumption of energy relative to a minimum energy consumption the energy consumption information being able to comprise a plurality of energy consumption values which take account of a traffic flow characteristic on the assigned route portions. The energy consumption information is stored together with the route portions in a database.

The determination of a consumption optimized route is additionally known from DE 10 2010 053 489 B3. In that case a plurality of routes determined between a start point and a destination point are evaluated according to ecological criteria. The estimated fuel consumption for the routes is determined by means of a stored fuel consumption function which specifies a minimum consumption in dependence on the speed.

Common to the known methods for determining a consumption optimized route is the fact that they are based on partially simplified consumption models and therefore frequently give only a rough prediction relating to energy saving routes. On the other hand the implementation of detailed consumption models that take account of for example characteristics of the traffic route network driver habits vehicle parameters and a traffic situation requires large amounts of computing capacity.

A technique is therefore to be provided which in a manner that is flexible and sparing of resources makes it possible to determine an energy saving route that takes account of factors contributing to energy consumption without at the same time significantly impairing the speed of the search operation.

Specified for this purpose is a computer assisted method for processing cartographic data for the purpose of determining an energy saving route between two geographic positions the cartographic data representing a real traffic route network in the form of route segments and route nodes and the method comprising the following steps subdividing the route segments provided for a route calculation into route segment portions that each have a predefined speed profile providing an energy consumption value to be expected for each of the route segment portions on the basis of at least the respectively assigned speed profile and calculating weights for the route segments on the basis of the energy consumption values provided for the route segment portions wherein the weights can be used to determine the energy saving route in the context of the route calculation.

Within the scope of the present disclosure a weight is not necessarily to be understood in connection with its use in the context of a multiplication. Rather weights may also be processed on the basis of other computing operations. Furthermore an energy consumption value may denote quite generally a value having a relationship to the energy use for travelling a particular route segment portion.

The speed profile respectively constituting the basis of the route segments may represent the speed progression of a travel speed during travel along a route segment portion corresponding to the route segment. Each route segment of the cartographic data can therefore be linked to a speed profile that indicates a travel speed within the corresponding route segment the travel speed being able to change within the route segment. Thus the speed progression assigned to a route segment can represent a variable quantity having portions of increasing decreasing and or substantially constant speed. Portions of increasing speed can be linked to a vehicle acceleration operation portions of constant speed can be linked to a uniform non accelerated motion and portions of decreasing speed can be linked to a vehicle deceleration operation.

A route segment can be subdivided into route segment portions on the basis of its speed profile a speed profile portion having e.g. a predefined speed profile corresponding to each portion. Optionally a speed profile having either a constant speed progression or a steady for example even speed change according to a vehicle acceleration or a vehicle deceleration can correspond to each route segment portion. Thus each speed profile of a route segment portion can represent quite particular travel states e.g. travel with positive or negative acceleration or with a constant travel speed . The number of subdivisions of a route segment and therefore the number of route segment portions obtained can therefore depend on the number of speed profile portions representing a particular travel state that can be assigned to the speed profile of a route segment. Thus one two three or more route segment portions can be determined per route segment.

Each route segment portion can be defined by an initial and end speed of the predefined speed profile assigned to the route segment portion. In the case of a route segment portion having a constant speed profile the absolute values of the initial and end speed at the start and end of the portion are substantially equal in any case. In the case of an acceleration deceleration the absolute speed value at the start of the portion is sufficiently smaller larger than the absolute speed value at the end of the portion the speed being able to change evenly within the portion. It is also conceivable for the change in speed within a portion to have the same preceding sign corresponding to an acceleration or a deceleration but not to progress evenly e.g. linearly and to follow for example an exponential law.

The energy consumption value to be expected for a route segment portion can be provided in that an energy consumption value assigned to the speed profile of the portion is read out from at least one assignment table. For this purpose the at least one assignment table can comprise previously calculated energy consumption values for predefined speed profiles which can be unambiguously defined for example by a start speed and an end speed. It is therefore possible to dispense entirely or at least partially with an explicit calculation of energy consumption values during a route search operation on the basis of determined speed profiles and further model dependent parameters e.g. vehicle parameters .

The energy consumption values can be calculated in dependence on a multiplicity of predefined speed profiles and organized and stored in the at least one assignment table. Like the cartographic data the at least one assignment table can be stored beforehand in a database of a navigation device. As an alternative to this the at least one assignment table can be generated or updated upon startup of the navigation device. The at least one assignment table can then be buffered or stored in the database or a buffer for the calculation of weights.

Depending on the energy consumption model on which the calculation of the energy consumption is based the energy consumption values can comprise in addition to an energy component that comprises the energy consumption of a vehicle or vehicle engine in idling operation at least one kinetic energy component that is dependent on the predefined speed profile an air flow resistance energy component a frictional loss component and or a potential energy component. It is understood that the individual energy components can be organized in one or more assignment tables. It is also understood that energy components that are non dependent on a speed profile can have been determined directly during the search operation and therefore need not be stored beforehand in an assignment table.

The method can additionally comprise the determination of speed profiles on the basis of cartographic data assigned to the route segments and route nodes. For this purpose at least one parameter assigned to the route segments such as for example a length of the route segment a maximum allowable travel speed a segment type a traffic situation etc. can be used to calculate speed profiles. Further stop points information relating to descending gradients ascending gradients and or figures relating to the number and geometry of bends can be included in the calculation of speed profiles. It is also conceivable for previously calculated speed profiles to be provided with the cartographic data for each of the route segments.

The calculation of the speed profile can also include as a basis a driver profile that quantitatively reflects the driving habits of a driver. It is conceivable that the driver profile can be determined individually from collected travel data. Such travel data can include information relating to the acceleration behaviour e.g. the manner of deceleration and acceleration . It is also conceivable that a driver profile can be selected by a driver from a plurality of previously stored profiles. In this case it is possible to use for example pre set vehicle profiles that are used or provided by vehicle manufacturers in the course of an engine control operation or a brake system control operation.

The weight of a each route segment can be calculated from a sum of the energy consumption values provided for the respective route segment portions of the route segment. The weight can represent the sum of the energy consumption values or correlate with the calculated sum value. It is conceivable for example for the weight to increase proportionally or over proportionally with the sum value. An over proportional increase can have the effect that route segments that have a high energy consumption are penalized particularly highly and are therefore not taken into account in the calculation of a route. The thus calculated weight can represent a basic weight for each route segment. This basic weight can be calculated during the route calculation by means of a weighting algorithm . If information relating to vehicle parameters and a driver profile are known it is then also conceivable for the basic weights for the entire road network stored in the form of cartographic data or for parts thereof to be calculated in advance and stored. The weights calculated in advance can then be called up and processed further together with other cartographic data during calculation of a route.

It is additionally possible to add to the basic weight of a each route segment a weight component that indicates an energy consumption that must be additionally expended during the transition between the route segment and a route segment succeeding the route segment owing to possible differing speed values in the respective speed profile at the transition. For this purpose for example the speed values that are assignable to the two succeeding route segments or the respective end and start portions of the two succeeding route segments are first compared with each other. On the basis of the comparison it is then possible to calculate an energy consumption value that corresponds to an energy for accelerating a vehicle from a first speed of the corresponding route segment i.e. of the preceding route segment to a second speed of the subsequent route segment. On the other hand the calculation of the energy consumption value can be effected in that an energy consumption value corresponding to the difference in speed between the end portion of the preceding route segment and the start portion of the subsequent route segment is read out from a previously stored assignment table. An additional weight for the transition between a preceding and a subsequent route segment can thus then be calculated on the basis of the additionally calculated energy consumption value the additional weight being in each case added to the basic weight of the preceding route segment e.g. applied to the basic weight or subtracted from the basic weight .

It is understood that depending on the speed value of the preceding and subsequent route segment route segment portions at the route segment transition i.e. at the route node there may be an increase or a reduction in speed that in turn leads to a vehicle acceleration or a vehicle deceleration braking . If a vehicle comprises an energy recovery system then instead of an additional energy consumption energy may even be recovered in the case of a deceleration at a transition between adjacent route segments. Correspondingly the additional weight can then assume a negative value or be subtracted from the basic weight of the route segment.

Furthermore for the calculation of energy saving routes the route nodes can be provided with weights that take account of an energy consumption of manoeuvres at the route nodes. For example a manoeuvre at one node may be more favourable in respect of energy than another manoeuvre at the same node e.g. turning right as compared with turning left . In addition or as an alternative to this the type of road intersection e.g. crossroads with traffic lights roundabout etc. may directly affect the energy consumption. Accordingly each route node can be assigned at least one weight that takes account of the energy consumption of a possible manoeuvre at the road intersection and that is additionally taken into account in the calculation of a route.

Also provided is a computer program product having program code for executing the method described here the computer program product being implemented on a computer device e.g. a navigation device . For this purpose the computer program product can be stored on a computer readable recording medium e.g. a memory card or a fixed memory .

Additionally provided is an apparatus for processing cartographic data for the purpose of determining energy saving routes between two geographic positions the cartographic data representing a real traffic route network in the form of route segments and route nodes and the apparatus comprising a storage unit for storing at least the cartographic data a device for subdividing the route segments provided for a route calculation into route segment portions that each have a predefined speed profile a device for providing an energy consumption value to be expected for each of the route segment portions on the basis of at least the respectively assigned speed profile and a device for calculating weights for the route segments on the basis of the energy consumption values provided for the route segment portions wherein the weights can be used to determine the energy saving route in the context of the route calculation.

The apparatus can further comprise a device for determining an energy saving route on the basis of the cartographic data and the calculated weights. In addition or as an alternative to this the apparatus can comprise a device for providing speed profiles. Also provided is a navigation system which comprises the apparatus for determining an energy saving route.

The system comprises a core functionality in the form of a central processing unit CPU a microprocessor or in the form of a software module SW module a device for providing speed profiles a device for subdividing route segments a device for providing energy consumption values a device for calculating weights a device for determining an energy saving route and at least one interface via which data can be exchanged with the environment. The devices and can be realized as stand alone devices or as an alternative to this integrated as a sub unit or as software sub modules in the core functionality as indicated by the broken line in . According to the present embodiment the system further comprises a storage unit and an input device . It is also conceivable however that the input device and the storage unit are not part of the system and for navigation data or input data to be entered via the interface . The at least one interface the input device and the storage unit are communicatively connected to the core functionality .

The at least one interface is provided to communicatively connect the system to external control components storage components or computing components. For example the system can be integrated as a constituent part in a vehicle navigation device and via the interface be in communication with vehicle sensors an engine control unit and or a brake control unit in order to read out vehicle data and or data relating to driver habits acceleration data deceleration data . In particular the system as part of a navigation device can be in communication with data storage devices and processors of the navigation device in order for example to access cartographic data stored in the navigation device or to provide calculated weights to the navigation device. The at least one interface in this case can be realized as a hardware interface or as a software interface application programming interface API or as a mixed hardware and software interface.

In the storage unit cartographic data used as a basis for calculating a route between two or more predefinable positions e.g. a start point and a destination point with optional intermediate points are stored in at least one database DB see . The cartographic data comprise route segments having segment attributes and nodes having node attributes which can be organized in the form of relational tables. Stored attributes for the calculation of routes can in this case comprise information relating to the mean travel speed turning manoeuvres the road type the road environment e.g. urban or rural the traffic volume e.g. mean traffic volume according to times of day stop signals e.g. traffic lights and stop signs road inclines relative altitude differences and or the number and quality of road bends depending on the type of cartographic data set used. The data within the database in this case can be organized and structured according to a predefined data format. For example the data can be organized according to the navigation data standard NDS format or assume any other format.

The input device is realized to provide inputs relating to a start point e.g. from a position sensor and to a destination point with optional intermediate stops to the core functionality or to the devices . Further information relating to driving habits and or motor vehicle parameters e.g. average energy consumption figures can be provided.

The input device can also be used to perform selection operations. For example a user can be provided with previously stored navigation options for selection via an output device. Such selection operations can include information relation to search options. Thus a search algorithm can perform a search according to particular criteria such as for example according to the criterion of the shortest distance the fastest route or the most energy saving route between two or more positions. Inputs in this case can be effected by actuation of input keys or a touch sensitive screen and or acoustically such as for example by communication of place names road names etc. Further via an external position sensor or a position sensor belonging to the system which position sensor is not shown in the core functionality can receive current position information which can also define the start point.

The devices and which can be realized as software sub modules or as hardware modules having appropriate software routines are in mutual communication with each other and with the core functionality . The functioning of each individual device is discussed in greater detail in connection with the flow diagram represented in .

The flow diagram represented in shows an embodiment of a method for determining an energy saving route which method is now explained exemplarily on the basis of the system represented in .

In a first step S a speed profile for route segments is provided by the device . The device is realized to determine speed profiles for route segments on the basis of cartographic data and if appropriate on the basis of a driver profile. The speed profile on which the route segments are based represents the real or expected progression of the travel speed during travel along a portion of road corresponding to the route segments.

According to an embodiment the speed profiles can be calculated in advance by the unit stored in the storage unit and read out for the determination of a route. As an alternative to this the speed profiles can be determined during determination of a route and used for calculating a route according to the present method. The speed profiles determined during a route calculation can additionally be stored in the storage unit for subsequent route calculations.

Determined speed profiles for a road portion are represented exemplarily in and . shows a part of a real road network along which a route is guided between two points. The route to be travelled is located on road which is crossed by a road the traffic at the intersection of the two roads and being controlled by traffic lights. Represented in are two determined speed profiles for the route along road which represent the progression of the travel speed ordinate as a function of the course abscissa of road . The determination of such speed profiles can be effected with route segment attributes such as for example road length road type and the maximum allowable speed and intersection attributes being taken into account.

In the present example the determined speed profile in the direction of travel see arrows in which indicate the direction of travel along the road segments has a portion j j of constant speed a portion j j of a decrease in speed due to vehicle deceleration a portion j j of an increase in speed due to vehicle acceleration and a further portion j j of constant speed. The absolute speed values of the portions j j j j of constant speed can correspond to the maximum allowable speeds e.g. 50 km h or 70 km h assigned to the corresponding route segments. The deceleration and acceleration portions j j j j depend on the type of intersection and the driving habits it being assumed here that a vehicle is decelerated down to a standstill in the case of an intersection controlled by traffic lights. The length of the acceleration portions j j j j depends in particular on the driving behaviour of a driver driver profile . As known empirically in the case of a sports type driving style the braking distances and the acceleration distances are short cf. speed profile whereas in the case of a defensive driving style the acceleration and deceleration distances are longer. Short acceleration and deceleration distances are associated with a pronounced increase and decrease in speed respectively and a corresponding rise in the speed profile and associated therewith a relatively high energy consumption. Obviously the speed values for the portions of constant speed depend on the driving style and may assume values that may be higher or lower than the maximum allowable speed or than a recommended guideline speed. By taking account of driver profiles which quantitively describe the driving style of a driver it is thus possible to determine driver specific speed profiles. Driver parameters in this case can be determined from collected travel data. It is also conceivable however for driving parameters to be determined from a driving option e.g. normal sports type ecological etc. that is set in the vehicle.

In addition for the purpose of calculating speed profiles bend properties of a road portion can be taken into account. In this case for each route segment the course of the road can be analyzed in respect of its bend characteristic and the travel speed adapted according to the bend characteristic. Thus the travel speed can be reduced before the approach to a bend and increased again after a bend. In this way it is possible to create for each road portion route segment a realistic road segment dependent speed profile that consists of succeeding portions of constant speed and portions having a relative increase or decrease in speed. Such a profile is substantially more accurate than an average travel speed value calculated for a route segment.

Back to . In a second step S the route segments are subdivided into route segment portions according to the speed profiles provided by the device . The device in this case analyzes the speed changes occurring in the speed profile of the route segments and subdivides the route segments into route segment portions in such a manner that a speed profile portion j j j j j j j j which has either a speed progression that is substantially constant in any case or a decreasing or increasing speed progression can be assigned to each portion of a route segment. In respect of the road portions represented in and the associated speed profile the route segment that corresponds to the road portion is broken down into a portion having a constant speed progression portion j j and a portion having a decreasing speed progression portion j j . Likewise the route segment representing the road portion is subdivided into a portion having increasing speed portion j j and a portion having constant speed portion j j . In total each route segment can be subdivided into one or more portions depending on the speed profile taken as a basis a uniform motion or a decelerated or accelerated motion corresponding to each portion with all route segment portions belonging to a route segment representing the respective route segment in its total length.

The advantage of such a subdivision consists in that each route segment having a given speed profile can be broken down into portions having known speed profiles i.e. into portions having either an acceleration profile a deceleration profile or a profile of uniform motion . These portions can thus be described by means of a speed value at the start and end of a route segment portion. In the case of a portion having a constant speed profile the absolute values of the start and end speed v v v v at the start and end of the portion are equal the speed also not changing substantially within the portion. In the case of an acceleration deceleration the absolute speed value v v at the start of the portion is less greater than the absolute speed value v v at the end of the portion. For reasons of simplicity in the present embodiment even linear speed changes are assumed within each portion. It is also conceivable for the change in speed within a portion to have the same preceding sign i.e. acceleration or deceleration but not to change evenly. In this case the non linear progression could be approximately linearly by multiple subdivision. Overall each speed profile is unambiguously defined by its start and end speed v v v v.

In a succeeding third step S corresponding energy consumption values are provided for each route segment portion j j j j j j j having a predefined speed profile. The provision of the energy consumption values is effected by the device which on the basis of the start and end speeds v v v v of each portion reads out corresponding precalculated energy consumption values E v v from at least one two dimensional assignment table cf. . In the at least one assignment table energy consumption values are stored as a function of start and end speeds v v v v. The advantage of using an assignment table consists in that during the calculation of an energy saving route energy consumption values that are as realistic as possible can be determined on the basis of speed profiles that are as realistic as possible without a large computing resource requirement. In other words by means of the usual hardware resources even of a portable navigation device an energy saving route can be calculated just as rapidly or only insignificantly more slowly than a route calculated for instance only on the basis of the criterion of the shortest distance. For the purpose of calculating the weights it is necessary only for assignment tables which are stored or buffered in the storage unit to be loaded from the storage unit into a working memory of the system where they are then available to the device for the selection of appropriate energy values.

It is also conceivable for differing absolute values relating to the energy consumption to be stored in differing assignment tables . In order to ensure flexible and simple handling of the calculation of the energy consumption values absolute values relating to the kinetic energy the frictional loss the potential energy resulting from change of altitude and or absolute values relating to the air resistance loss can be stored in differing assignment tables according to the energy consumption model. In particular energy consumption values that can be assigned to portions of constant increasing or decreasing speed can be organized into differing assignment tables. For each route segment portion the device reads out from the at least to one assignment table the energy consumption values assigned to the speed profile and transfers these values to the device for the purpose of calculating weights.

According to in the succeeding step S weights for the route segments are calculated on the basis of the provided energy consumption values. For this purpose the device calculates weights of each route segment as a sum of the absolute energy consumption values of its route segment portions. Specifically the device determines the energy consumption of each route segment from the sum of the absolute energy values according to the step function

The weight calculated separately in such a manner for each route segment therefore corresponds to the sum over the energy consumption values calculated for the route segment portions of each route segment. As an alternative to this the weight calculated for each route segment can represent a value that has a predefined functional relationship to the calculated sum value. It is conceivable for example for the weight or the absolute value of the weight to increase proportionally or over proportionally with the sum value. An over proportional increase can have the effect that route segments that have a high energy consumption are penalized particularly highly. During a route calculation the weight assigned to a route segment determines whether the route segment is penalized or given preference as compared with adjacent route segments in the calculation of a route. In this case depending on the search algorithm used the calculated weight can have positive or negative values. It is not the actual calculation of the weights in dependence on the energy values assigned to the route segments that is important in this case. What is substantive is that the calculated weights scale with the calculated energy consumption values and route segments having an expected high low energy consumption are correspondingly penalized preferred by means of the determined weights.

The weights calculated on the basis of speed profiles assigned to the route segments can be calculated independently i.e. without taking account of possible succeeding route segments that could become possible for a route for each route segment. They represent a basic weight for each route segment. Such basic weights are route segment specific and can be calculated directly during the route calculation or also beforehand and stored together with the navigation data e.g. map data in a database. What is substantive however is that these basic weights do not take account of the energy that must be expended for example in order to accelerate a vehicle from a first speed in the following termed speed v to a second speed in the following termed speed v at an intersection or junction in the case of a transition from a travelled road portion in the following termed preceding route segment to a succeeding road portion in the following termed subsequent route segment .

It is understood in connection with this that irrespective of the preceding route segment from which an intersection is approached and of the subsequent route segment via which the intersection is exited quite different energy consumption values may be obtained for a transition effected at the intersection depending on the speed profiles provided for the individual route segments. For example if the value of the speed vassigned to the subsequent route segment or its start portion is greater than the speed value vassigned to the preceding route segment or its end portion energy is additionally required for a vehicle acceleration at the transition. On the other hand if the speed value vis less than the speed value v no additional acceleration energy is consumed in the case of a corresponding deceleration operation vehicle braking at the transition. Rather in the case of the corresponding braking operation kinetic energy is dissipated in the form of heat.

If the vehicle comprises an energy recovery system that for example can convert kinetic energy in the braking operation into electrical energy the braking operation can even result in the recovery of energy. Such an energy recovery can then be taken into account in route calculation in that a negative weight value corresponding to the energy recovery value is provided or is subtracted from the basic weight of the route segments.

In to the calculation of energy consumption values and weights for the route segments route segment  and route segment  in corresponding to the two road portions and is illustrated in greater detail with the energy consumption at the road transition at the intersection additionally being taken into account.

Irrespective of the speed progressions of adjacent route segments or the route segment portions thereof the devices and calculate a respective basic weight for each of the two route segments in that as already stated above for individual route segment portions on the basis of speed profiles energy consumption values are read out from assignment tables and added up. In the present case for the route segment  the devices and merely have to read out from the assignment table an energy consumption value E v v with v 12 m s and scale it with the length d in order to obtain the energy consumption value E and therefore a basic weight for the route segment  . The same applies correspondingly to the calculation of the basic weight of the route segment .

As can be seen from however at the intersection point there is a discontinuous transition in the speed progression between the route segment  and route segment . In other words at the transition from the road portion to the road portion a driver will wish to further accelerate the vehicle from the speed v 12 m s to the speed v 24 m s. According to the present invention the energy consumption that ensues in the transition from the route segment  to the route segment  in order to further accelerate the vehicle from the speed of 12 m s to the predefined speed of 24 m s is taken into account in that the additional energy consumption Efor the acceleration at the transition from route segment  to route segment  is added to the calculated energy consumption value or basic value of the route segment  cf. .

This is effected in that the devices and first taking account of the speed values of the route segment  and the route segment  at the intersection determine a speed difference v v and if appropriate taking account of a driver profile a route segment portion j which corresponds to a road portion length required for the provided acceleration or deceleration . The route segment portion j is added to the route segment  at the segment end thereof. As can be seen from the route segment  is now broken down into a segment portion j having a uniform speed progression and a portion j at the end of the route segment having an increasing speed progression increase from vto v . Further the device as in the case of calculation of energy components during an acceleration or deceleration phase within a route segment determines the energy consumption Eadditionally required for the transition in that it reads out corresponding energy values E v v from the assignment tables provided for the acceleration portions and deceleration portions.

The determined additional energy consumption Eis then added to the last route segment portion jof the route segment . Since the energy value read out from the assignment table already comprises the energy component Efor the basic weight in the portion j and the basic weight for the route segment  Ehas been calculated for the segment portions j and j cf. and the basic weight energy component Efor j is subtracted from the calculated basic weight E Cf. . The subtraction of the basic weight component Efrom the calculated basic weight Eis of particular interest if as mentioned briefly above the route segment specific basic weights have been precalculated and stored and then only the energy consumption values for the transitions between the route segments are calculated on the fly during the route calculation. If both basic weights and the transition weights are determined during the route calculation a basic weight for the route segment  which excludes the last route segment portion j can thus be calculated directly.

Overall for the route segment  an energy consumption value is obtained which takes account of the energy consumption resulting from a transition to a subsequent route segment and which is composed of a basic weight component and an energy consumption component that ensues from the transition between two adjacent route segments according to the relationship 

Irrespective of the example shown in the transition component for energy consumption occurring at route nodes or road intersections is in each case added to the preceding route segment of two succeeding route segments.

Further the device is realized to provide weights for route nodes. For this purpose the device reads out attributes assigned to the nodes that describe for instance approached intersections or junctions in greater detail e.g. crossroads with traffic lights roundabout etc. and assigns a weight to them. Thus owing to possible longer wait times because of a red signal intersections controlled by traffic lights may be penalized in comparison with a roundabout by corresponding weights. Further differing manoeuvres may be weighted differently at a route node. For example a right turn manoeuvre may be more favourable than a left turn manoeuvre at an intersection in respect of the energy consumption. Accordingly in comparison with a right turn manoeuvre the weight penalty is applied to a left turn manoeuvre. At least one weight that takes account of possible manoeuvres at the road intersections is thus assigned to the route nodes.

In a further step S finally an energy saving route is determined by the unit on the basis of the calculated weights. The unit reads out the route segments and route nodes together with their calculated weights and determines an energy saving route between at least two predefined positions in that it minimizes the sum of weights of possible route segment combinations.

In conclusion the calculation of an energy saving route on the basis of calculated weights that indicate an energy consumption is explained in greater detail on the basis of the exemplary implementation shown schematically in .

According to this figure the determination of an energy saving route is based on a combined use of a search algorithm which determines the shortest distance between two positions e.g. the Dijkstra algorithm and a weighting algorithm which performs a weighting of route segments and route nodes according to the expected energy consumption. The weighting algorithm as already explained above in connection with the method steps in FIG. divides route segments into portions to which a respective speed profile having either a constant decreasing or increasing speed can be assigned the speed profile of the portions being unambiguously defined by means of the start and end speed v v. The weighting algorithm then makes use of at least one assignment table which comprises precalculated energy consumption values these values can be precalculated with the aid of a vehicle model and or a driver profile in dependence on start and end speed values v v and selects assigned energy consumption values for the respective portions of a route segment. Further for each route segment the weighting algorithm calculates an energy consumption value from the energy consumption values of its route segment portions and from this energy consumption value calculates a route segment weight. The weight is transferred to the search algorithm which then determines an energy saving route on the basis of the cartographic data and the provided complementing weights.

A realistic energy consumption value can be determined on the basis of the speed profiles assigned to the individual route segments. An aspect in this case is that the calculated speed profile for route segments is broken down into predefined speed profiles of the route segment portions these predefined speed profiles being assignable to precalculated energy consumption values. The energy consumption values assigned or assignable to the portions are then used for calculating the weights of each route segment.

Overall the technique described here enables energy saving routes to be determined in rapid manner that is sparing of resources on the basis of energy consumption models that are as realistic as possible. The technique can be applied in ordinary navigation devices having standard hardware resources the calculation of energy saving routes being as rapid or only insignificantly slower than conventional route calculations on the basis of the criterion of the shortest distance.

