---

title: Dialog compatability
abstract: A contact center system can receive messages from consumers. The system can then interact with the consumer or customer using a dialog. Before conducting the session with the consumer, past interactions using the dialog are reviewed to determine words, phrases, and other information that caused the dialog to be successful. The information is stored as norms. Upon beginning a new interaction with the dialog, the norms and the past successful dialogs are retrieved and compared to the active dialog while the interaction is on-going. The comparison is then used to ensure that the present active dialog will lead to a successful outcome or to resolve any issued if the outcome is not likely to be successful.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09020135&OS=09020135&RS=09020135
owner: Avaya Inc.
number: 09020135
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130910
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application 61 809 737 filed Apr. 8 2013 entitled SENTIMENT FOR USE IN CONNECTION WITH CONTACT CENTER COMMUNICATIONS which is incorporated herein by reference for all that it teaches and for all purposes.

Communication with customers and the importance of addressing customer concerns continues to grow in importance. Customers expect businesses and organizations to provide specific and direct answers to their issues inquiries and comments. The range of possible questions and issues is endless requiring a highly skilled agent on the company end to handle the interactions. Unfortunately agents can veer from proscribed dialogs or conversations and can fail to deliver the appropriate feedback to customers. Furthermore consistency of answers and information is problematic. Incorrect information slow response and confusing replies are all dangers to the company when supporting customer interaction.

In general human beings lack the ability to evaluate outcomes with great precision. Memories can be subjective weak and unreliable. In a contact center where efficiency and directed outcome are of paramount importance a contact center supervisor needs tools to observe compare and redirect and or correct inappropriate agent behaviors. Rather than relying on subjectively collected and analyzed information and or anecdotal observation or discussion tools for dialog monitoring analysis and intervention are needed.

The company needs an efficient way to provide agents with proper relevant and informative suggestions and in some cases real time feedback as to their progress in resolving customer issues.

It is with respect to the above issues and other problems that the embodiments presented herein were contemplated. Embodiments presented herein provide a method for analyzing an agent dialog in a contact center the method comprising receiving by a processor a contact from a consumer starting an active dialog with the consumer receiving one or more of norms for the active dialog or a successful past dialog associated with the active dialog comparing the active dialog with one or more of the norms or the successful past dialog based on the comparison determining if the active dialog is deviating from a successful path if the active dialog is not deviating from the successful path continuing comparing the active dialog with one or more of the norms or the successful past dialog until the contact is terminated if the active dialog is deviating from a successful path determining a resolution and enacting the resolution.

An aspect of the above method further comprises receiving dialog choices from a supervisor retrieving past dialogs associated with the choices mapping dialogs for norms establishing the norms for each dialog providing the norms for analysis and providing successful dialogs for analysis.

An aspect of the above method further comprises determining a resolution state associated with the active dialog.

An aspect of the above method further comprises quantifying the deviation from a successful path based on one or more of the comparison the intent of the active dialog or the resolution state.

An aspect of the above method includes wherein the resolution state is a probability that the active dialog will end in a successful conclusion.

An aspect of the above method includes wherein the comparison to the norms can include one or more of determining if a time elapsed is within normal parameters determining if a word used has been successful determining if a phrase used has been successful and determining if an order of steps in the active dialog has been successful.

An aspect of the above method further comprises one or more of determining if a new dialog is required to address the contact determining if a new sequence of steps is successful and determining if a dialog variation is successful.

An aspect of the above method includes wherein the resolution is one or more of a warning to an agent that the agent is no longer on a successful path an adjustment to the active dialog to return the agent to a successful path and an alert to a supervisor that the agent is no longer on a successful path.

A computer readable medium having stored thereon processor executable instructions that cause a computing system to execute a method for analyzing an agent dialog the instructions comprising instructions to receive dialog choices from a supervisor instructions to retrieve past dialogs associated with the choices instructions to map dialogs for norms instructions to establish the norms for each dialog instructions to provide the norms for analysis instructions to provide successful dialogs for analysis instructions to receive by a processor a contact from a consumer instructions to start an active dialog with the consumer instructions to receive one or more of norms for the active dialog or a successful past dialog associated with the active dialog instructions to compare the active dialog with one or more of the norms or the successful past dialog based on the comparison instructions to determine if the active dialog is deviate from a successful path if the active dialog is not deviating from the successful path instructions to continue compare the active dialog with one or more of the norms or the successful past dialog until the contact is terminated if the active dialog is deviate from a successful path instructions to determine a resolution and instructions to enact the resolution.

An aspect of the above computer readable medium includes wherein the active dialog has two or more successful paths.

An aspect of the above computer readable medium further comprises instructions to determine intent of the active dialog and instructions to determine a resolution state associated with the active dialog wherein the resolution state is a probability that the active dialog will end in a successful conclusion.

An aspect of the above computer readable medium further comprises instructions to quantify the deviation from a successful path based on one or more of the comparison the intent of the active dialog or the resolution state and wherein the comparison to the norms can include one or more of instructions to determine if a time elapsed is within normal parameters instructions to determine if a word used has been successful instructions to determine if a phrase used has been successful and instructions to determine if an order of steps in the active dialog has been successful.

An aspect of the above computer readable medium further comprises one or more of instructions to determine if a new dialog is required to address the contact instructions to determine if a new sequence of steps is successful instructions to determine if a dialog variation is successful wherein the resolution is one or more of a warning to an agent that the agent is no longer on a successful path an adjustment to the active dialog to return the agent to a successful path and an alert to a supervisor that the agent is no longer on a successful path.

A communication system comprising a contact center server in communication with one or more agents the contact center server operable to receive a consumer contact from a customer wherein the contact center server comprises a dialog system the dialog system operable to analyze an active dialog associated with the consumer contact wherein the dialog system compromises an analysis tools component that is operable to receive and analyze the active dialog wherein the analysis tools component compromises a dialog analysis module operable to receive dialog choices from a supervisor retrieve past dialogs associated with the choices map dialogs for norms establish the norms for each dialog provide the norms for analysis provide successful dialogs for analysis an agent dialog analysis engine in communication with the dialog analysis module wherein the agent dialog analysis engine is operable to receive by a processor a contact from a consumer start an active dialog with the consumer receive one or more of norms for the active dialog or a successful past dialog associated with the active dialog compare the active dialog with one or more of the norms or the successful past dialog based on the comparison determine if the active dialog is deviate from a successful path if the active dialog is not deviate from the successful path continue compare the active dialog with one or more of the norms or the successful past dialog until the contact is terminated if the active dialog is deviate from a successful path provide the active dialog for resolution determination.

An aspect of the above communication system includes wherein the agent dialog analysis engine comprises an answer analyzer operable to determine one or more of if a time elapsed is within normal parameters if a phrase used has been successful if an order of steps in the active dialog has been successful an entrainment analyzer operable to determine one or more of a word used in the active dialog has been successful or an intent of the active dialog a resolution predictor operable to determine a resolution state associated with the active dialog wherein the resolution state is a probability that the active dialog will end in a successful conclusion a grading module operable to quantify the deviation from a successful path based on one or more of the comparison the intent of the active dialog or the resolution state a response router operable to determine a resolution is required.

An aspect of the above communication system includes wherein the response router sends a signal to an agent dialog response engine to determine a resolution wherein the agent dialog response engine comprises a dialog readjustment module operable to enforce an adjustment to the active dialog to return the agent to a successful path a warning module operable to send a warning to an agent that the agent is no longer on a successful path a new dialog module operable to one or more of determine if a new dialog is required to address the contact determine if a new sequence of steps is successful determine if a dialog variation is successful and a supervisor module operable to send an alert to a supervisor that the agent is no longer on a successful path.

An aspect of the above communication system includes wherein the answer analyzer is further operable to access a database including norms the norms including one or more of a time elapsed for at least a portion of past dialogs associated with the active dialog a word used in a past successful dialog and a phrased used in a past successful dialog.

An aspect of the above communication system includes wherein the active dialog has two or more successful paths.

In an implementation agent behavior is subject to mathematical and algorithmic analysis. A review of dialogs can allow a supervisor to choose dialogs that have been handled successfully. A set of norms can be mapped including the amount of time appropriate for a dialog typical words and phrases appropriate for the dialog and other measurable or repeatable parameters. An active agent dialog may then be compared to previous dialogs based on procedures scripts and word similarities. By reviewing and analyzing multiple successful dialogs a supervisor can quantify what a good answer to the dialog might contain. Additional analysis items that that may help quantify dialog success may include determining intent and resolution state.

The system may also notify alert the agent in real time when he or she deviates from a successful dialog path. In addition the system may be able to guide the agent back to a success path or bring in an expert who has previously used the successful dialog path. The analysis can include 

There may be two or more types of contact center scenarios to which the dialog analysis may apply. For example a first type of scenario may be for diagnostics problems and a second type of scenario may be for a purchase want to buy . Generally a scenario can include any situation where there are steps and an identifiable end state. Each scenario may lead down a different dialog path. The system can analyze past dialogs and scripts to determine if the current dialog is accurate and effective i.e. making the agent more efficient . Also the system can allow the supervisor and or agent to learn in real time what is successful in practice. The system may also correlate each side of a dialog to an amount of time the agent should be take to complete the portion of the dialog i.e. ensure agents do not dwell on a particular topic . Finally the system can search automatically for dialog incompatibility from determined norms.

As an example a sample dialog might be for a cable provider that services home Internet access. The system can monitor the interactions over the communication media between a customer with down Internet service and a cable provider s agent. During the course of monitoring dialogs the system can access an available pool of successful and unsuccessful dialogs. In this case a dialog is successful when service is restored. When the system determines that a successful dialog consists of steps A B C and D in that order the system can monitor the active dialog for the order and similar content to past dialogs.

If the agent attempts to tell a customer to try step D without first doing A B and C then the agent is not following a successful dialog interaction. When the agent asks the customer to perform Step D out of sequence the system may warn the agent and or a supervisor. It should be noted that the agent may have already completed some steps of a successful dialog. The analysis may identify successful steps but determine that the current step is out of order and indicative of an unsuccessful dialog path.

An additional embodiment includes the ability of the system to learn sequential steps and acceptable variations on processes. This learning function can allow the system to grow as new and or never before seen problems are resolved and as new techniques are developed. For example an unusual situation for fixing a modem can include the occurrence of a lightning strike or a storm. The customer may state an external condition that might be the influencing factor in their issue e.g. My internet connection is poor after last night s storm. There was a lightning strike fairly close to my house. Once the issue is resolved the influencing factor i.e. the lightning storm might become a question that the agent might ask if the standard dialog is not reaching success.

The phrases at least one one or more and and or are open ended expressions that are both conjunctive and disjunctive in operation. For example each of the expressions at least one of A B and C at least one of A B or C one or more of A B and C one or more of A B or C and A B and or C means A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together or A B and C together.

The term a or an entity refers to one or more of that entity. As such the terms a or an one or more and at least one can be used interchangeably herein. It is also to be noted that the terms comprising including and having can be used interchangeably.

The term automatic and variations thereof as used herein refers to any process or operation done without material human input when the process or operation is performed. However a process or operation can be automatic even though performance of the process or operation uses material or immaterial human input if the input is received before performance of the process or operation. Human input is deemed to be material if such input influences how the process or operation will be performed. Human input that consents to the performance of the process or operation is not deemed to be material .

The term computer readable medium as used herein refers to any tangible storage that participates in providing instructions to a processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media includes for example NVRAM or magnetic or optical disks. Volatile media includes dynamic memory such as main memory. Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape or any other magnetic medium magneto optical medium a CD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes a RAM a PROM and EPROM a FLASH EPROM a solid state medium like a memory card any other memory chip or cartridge or any other medium from which a computer can read. When the computer readable media is configured as a database it is to be understood that the database may be any type of database such as relational hierarchical object oriented and or the like. Accordingly the invention is considered to include a tangible storage medium and prior art recognized equivalents and successor media in which the software implementations of the present invention are stored.

The terms determine calculate and compute and variations thereof as used herein are used interchangeably and include any type of methodology process mathematical operation or technique.

The term module as used herein refers to any known or later developed hardware software firmware artificial intelligence fuzzy logic or combination of hardware and software that is capable of performing the functionality associated with that element. Also while the invention is described in terms of exemplary embodiments it should be appreciated that individual aspects can be separately claimed.

The term in communication with as used herein refers to any coupling connection or interaction using electrical signals to exchange information or data using any system hardware software protocol or format.

A user context an extended user context and or a user social context as used herein means information about a user of a social media network that can be used to determine a value of that user.

The term social media network or social media is a service provider that builds online communities of people who share interests and or activities or who are interested in exploring the interests and activities of others. Generally social media are web based and provide a variety of ways for users to interact such as e mail and instant messaging services.

The ensuing description provides embodiments only and is not intended to limit the scope applicability or configuration of the claims. Rather the ensuing description will provide those skilled in the art with an enabling description for implementing the embodiments. Various changes may be made in the function and arrangement of elements of the embodiment without departing from the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

A block diagram depicting components of a communication system is shown in . In particular the communication system can include a contact center . In general the contact center can be in communication with one or more customer endpoints or devices via one or more communication networks . Examples of customer endpoints can include one or more of but are not limited to smartphones desktop computers laptop computers or any other device capable of supporting communications between a customer and a customer service or other agent associated with the contact center using written oral and or electronic communications. Accordingly communications between the contact center and the customer endpoints can comprise email instant messaging a telephone call short message system or other real time or non real time communications. The communication network can include the Internet a local area network LAN wide area network WAN public switched telephone network PSTN wireless networks or a plurality of networks in any combination.

The contact center generally includes a call or contact center server such as an automatic contact or call distribution system ACD server . The ACD server is illustratively the Communication Manager enterprise communication based ACD system available from Avaya Inc. The ACD server is interconnected to a plurality of agent workstations or endpoints . For example the agent workstations may be connected to the ACD server by an enterprise network or networks .

The contact center server generally functions to connect agent workstations to customer devices or endpoints through the communication network to allow the agents to service customer contacts . The contacts can comprise written electronic communications. However contacts are not necessarily limited to written communications. For example the contact center can additionally handle voice contacts. As can be appreciated by one of skill in the art after consideration of the present disclosure the contact center server can maintain one or more queues for organizing and maintaining or holding contacts waiting for handling by a contact center agent . For example a plurality of queues can be provided to sort contacts according to various parameters. Agents associated with the agent workstations are assigned to provide services to contacts that have been placed within one or more of the queues based on availability and or weighting factors. Moreover the workstations which can comprise general purpose computers thin client devices or other devices generally support the delivery of customer contacts to associated agents and to receive replies to the customer contacts from the agents . In addition the agent workstations can include a user output in the form of a display that can present a determined sentiment or sentiment indicator for a contact or aggregation of contacts to associated agents .

In addition system as described herein can include one or more supervisor or administrator devices . The supervisor device is generally in communication with the contact center server via the communication network and or the enterprise network . For example if the supervisor device is on the premises of the contact center communications with the contact center server may be over a portion of the enterprise network comprising a wired or wireless network. As another example the supervisor device may be in communication with the contact center server over the communication network for example via a cellular telephony data network a wired or wireless connection outside of the enterprise network or the like. In general the supervisor device comprises functionality that allows a supervisor to monitor the health of the contact center and to control aspects of the operation of the contact center . Moreover the supervisor device can present a sentiment indicator for a contact or aggregation of contacts to a supervisor . Accordingly the supervisor device can comprise any device including a mobile device capable of presenting information to a supervisor . Accordingly examples of a supervisor device include but are not limited to a tablet computer a smartphone a laptop computer a desktop computer a netbook or the like.

A further embodiment of the communication system for interacting with persons using social media is shown in . The communication system can include a contact center a network and one or more types of social media networks or systems such as social media network 1 social media network 2 and or social media network 3 . Social media networks and or can be any social media including but not limited to networks websites or computer enabled systems. For example a social media network may be MySpace Facebook Twitter Linked In Spoke or other similar computer enabled systems or websites. The communication system can communicate with more or fewer social media networks and or than those shown as represented by ellipses .

The network s can be any network as described in conjunction with which allow communication between the contact center and the one or more social media networks and or . The network s can represent any communication system whether wired or wireless using any protocol and or format. The network s provides communication capability for the contact center to communicate with websites or systems corresponding to the one or more social media networks and or . The network s may be as described in conjunction with .

A contact center can be a system that can communicate with one or more persons that use social media networking sites and or . The contact center can be hardware software or a combination of hardware and software. The contact center can be executed by one or more servers or computer systems as described in conjunction with . The contact center can include all systems whether hardware or software that allow the contact center to receive service and respond to directed and non directed contacts. For example the contact center can include the telephone or email system an interface to human agents systems to allow human agents to service and respond to received contacts and one or more systems operable to analyze and improve the function of agent interaction.

The contact center may include a dialog system and a social media gateway . While the dialog system and the social media gateway are shown as being a part of the contact center system in other situations the dialog system and or the social media gateway are separate systems or functions executed separately from the contact center and or executed by a third party. The dialog system may process and receive messages. The social media gateway can receive and translate messages from the one or more social media networks and or . An embodiment of the dialog system is described in conjunction with . An embodiment of the social media gateway is described in conjunction with .

The contact center may also communicate with one or more communication devices . The communication devices can represent a customer s or user s cell phone email system personal digital assistant laptop computer or other device that allows the contact center to interact with the customer. The contact center can modify a non direct contact from a social media network and or into a directed contact by sending a response message directly to a customer s communication device .

An embodiment of the social media gateway is shown in . The social media gateway can include one or more components which may include hardware software or combination of hardware and software. The social media gateway can be executed by a computer system such as those described in conjunction with . However in other embodiments the components described in conjunction with are logic circuits or other specially designed hardware that are embodied in a field programmable gate array FPGA application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other hardware.

Herein the social media gateway can include one or more content filters and or . A content filter can receive all of the messages for the contact center from a social media network and or and eliminate or delete those messages that do not require a response. For example a message between two friends on a Facebook page if not pertaining to a product or a service of the company operating the contact center may not need a response. As such the content filter can filter out or delete the non suitable message from the messages that are received by the social media network application programming interface API 1 social media network API 2 and or social media network API 3 . With the content filter the social media network API only needs to translate those messages that should be received by the dialog system . Translation typically requires the conversion of the message into a different format.

The content filter is provided with one or more heuristics or filter rules from a filter database not shown . These filter rules can be created by the external customer or internal user e.g. agent or administrator of the communication system . Thus the user or customer of the communication system can customize the filtering of messages from social media networks and or . Further different rules may be applied to different social media networks and or as some social media networks and or may have different types of messages or postings than other types of social media networks and or . While the content filter is shown as part of the social media gateway it is to be appreciated that the content filter may be a part of the social media network API . The content filter may correspond to query terms used by the social media network API . The content filter or query terms are an argument to the social media network API call.

The social media network API can be an application which may be provided by the social media network and or to access the social media network s and or . Thus the social media network API is called and connects the social media gateway to the social media network and or . Any suitable filter criteria may be employed for social media API . Examples of filter criteria include positive content of the source of a posting an address field a destination or recipient address fields a time stamp field a subject matter field and or a message body field. For example a type of searchable content can be the name of the business enterprise running or employing the contact center and or the products or services of the enterprise.

The social media gateway can include one or more social media network APIs . As shown in the social media gateway may include a social media network API for each social media network and or . As such the social media gateway can interact with each social media network and or in the particular often unique format or protocol used by the social media network and or . Further when new social media networks are created the social media gateway can be easily expanded to interact with those social media networks by adding another social media network API . Where social media networks and or are more standardized or use substantially similar formats or protocols a single social media network API can be shared by multiple social media networks and or .

The social media network API can receive messages from and send messages to the social media network and or . The social media network API can translate a message received from a social media network and or and send the translated message to a message filter . The social media network API can translate the received message into a standard formatted file. For example the translated message may be represented by an extensible mark up language XML file or other file having a general format. As such each specific and particular social media network message can be translated into a standard format for use by the dialog system . Further the social media network API can receive a generally or standard format response message from the dialog system and translate that response into a particularly or specifically formatted response message that can be posted to the corresponding social media network and or .

Messages to the contact center are addressed to the contact center . For example a customer may become a friend of the contact center on a social media network and or such as Facebook . The customer may then address a message to the contact center on Facebook . This non direct contact is a message that is not sent directly to the contact center but to the contact center s Facebook page. In other circumstances the contact center receives messages not addressed to the contact center . For example the contact center can receive tweets from Twitter that are broadcast rather than addressed to the contact center . The contact center may also search for messages or content on the social media networks and or . Exemplary search criteria include customer name customer profession customer home address customer business address customer employer name customer educational or professional background customer hobby personal or business interests customer family profile and the like. Thus the social media gateway of the contact center can query gather or connect to a live feed of data from a social media network and or and then apply a filter to the indirect information.

Further the social media network API can also retrieve user context or other extended information from the social media networks and or . User context or other extended information can include historical posts historical tweets or other historical communications that a user may have received or sent. Further user context or other extended information can include but is not limited to account information for a user the user s followers or friends information on where historical messages were posted e.g. geo location time date what type of device etc. trending analysis that the social media network and or might provide the user etc. Thus the social media network API can retrieve information that is associated with a user and a social media network and or but not necessarily a part of a current message. The social media network API is a gatherer of data which can be used to determine a value for the user of the social media networks and or .

The translated messages from the social media network API can be received by a message filter . A message filter can perform some or all of the functions of the content filter and eliminate messages before being sent to the dialog system . However in other situations the message filter eliminates information from within the messages before the redacted messages are sent to the dialog system . For example a message from a social media network and or may have three or four interactions between two parties not associated with the contact center . Only one of the several postings may be pertinent to the dialog system . As such the message filter can eliminate or delete at least a portion of the other messages for the dialog system . Thus the dialog system receives a message where some of the content of the message has been deleted.

The message filter can retrieve heuristics or filter rules from a filter database not shown similar to the content filter . A substantial difference between the content and message filters and is that the content filter is specific to a particular message format associated with a corresponding social media network and or while the message filter is applied to a standardized or universal format and is therefore common to multiple social media networks and or . One skilled in the art will understand the type of rules that may be used to filter information from messages such that only pertinent questions facts requests or information is sent to the dialog system .

A message aggregator may also be included with the social media gateway . A message aggregator can in contrast to the message filter combine two or more messages into a packet or grouping that is sent to the dialog system . Therefore the message aggregator can interrelate or combine messages based on information within the messages. For example two messages may be combined based on any of the message fields referenced above such as the person that posted the message the subject the request or question asked the person the message was sent to or other information that may be pertinent to the dialog system . Thus the dialog system may be able to respond concurrently to two or more messages based on a grouping provided by the message aggregator . Regardless of whether the messages are aggregated each message or grouping of messages can be sent from the social media gateway to the dialog system .

The social media gateway can also send responses back to the social media networks and or . A response from an agent in the contact center can be sent to the social media gateway . The response may be received in a general format and then translated. The translated response may then be posted to the appropriate social media network and or by the social media gateway . In other embodiments the agent may post the response directly to the social media network and or without sending the response to the social media gateway .

An embodiment of the dialog system is shown in . The dialog system can include one or more components which may be hardware software or a combination of hardware and software. The dialog system can be executed by a computer system such as those described in conjunction with . However in other embodiments the components described in conjunction with are logic circuits or other specially designed hardware that are embodied in a FPGA or ASIC. The components contained within the dialog system can include a dialog core that is communication with a message history database an agent interface and a heuristic rules and dialogs database . Further the heuristic rules and dialogs database can be in communication with a dialog creator .

The dialog core can include one or more sub components. For example the dialog core can include a trend analysis component a text processing component and an analysis tools component . These components similar to the components for the dialog system can be hardware software or combination of hardware and software. The dialog core may step through the states of a dialog data structure. A dialog data structure can include a set of inputs and associated actions that can be taken which allow for the automatic and structured response to social media requests or messages. For example if a user asks for a manual the input of the text word manual can cause the dialog system in accordance with a dialog data structure to send information about one or more manuals. In turn the receiver of the response may respond in kind with the selection of a certain user manual. In which case the dialog data structure may then instruct the dialog core to send the user to a website where the user can retrieve an electronic version of the manual. As such the dialog data structure provides a script a dialog that allows the dialog core to automate the interaction between the contact center and a person. This automation eliminates the need for agent involvement in some situations and makes the contact center more efficient and more effective. Further the automation expands the contact center s ability to answer numerous messages from the plethora of postings on the numerous social media networks and or .

The dialog creator can create a dialog data structure that includes instructions for various states for each social media message that comes into the contact center . The first instruction might be to send the social media message to the trend analysis component then to the text processing component and then execute a query of a Customer Relationship Management CRM database to determine if this user has an existing order . A CRM database can be a database as described in conjunction with and can store information about customers or other data related to customer relations. Finally the dialog data structure may decide that the social media message should be sent to a human agent for processing. The instructions or node transitions are executed in the dialog core and make use of many different components that the dialog creator combines in any way the user desires to handle the social media messages. The dialog core can make use of the trend analysis component text processing component or other systems. The dialog core may also interface with a CRM system and or database external databases social media user information e.g. followers friends post history etc. from the social media site or other systems.

The trend analysis component is operable to analyze trends that occur between two or more messages received by the social media networks and or . The two messages can be from different social media network and or so that the trend analysis component can identify trends across several different social media networks and or . Trends can include multiple occurrences of the same word or phrase multiple occurrences of a customer identity product name or service or multiple occurrences of some other information that might indicate a trend. Further the trend analysis component may be able to identify escalations in the occurrences of particular text identities or other information or may identify multiple occurrences over a period of time. The trend analysis component may also be able to apply one or more different algorithms to occurrences of information within the social media networks and or . For example the trend analysis component can match the number of occurrences of a phrase or word over a period of time and apply analysis to determine if the occurrences are increasing or decreasing over the period of time.

The text processing component is operable to analyze text of one or more messages from social media networks or or other contacts. Some possible methods for text processing can include Regular Expression Latent Semantic Indexing LSI text part of speech tagging text clustering N Gram document analysis etc. In addition for possibly longer documents such as blogs or emails the text processing component may execute one or more methods of document summarization. The summarization may occur if the social media message will be sent to an agent of the contact center the summarization can reduce the amount of information that the agent may manage. The text processing rules or models may be stored in and or retrieved from a text processing rules database . The text processing rules database can be a database as described in conjunction with that stores rules or models used by the text processing component .

The text processing component can identify one or more occurrences of a particular text such as using one or more of the message fields referenced above in order to associate that social media message with one or more dialogs data structures in the heuristic rules and dialog database . For example the text processing component can look for the word manual in the social media message. If the word manual is found the text processing component may retrieve a dialog data structure from the heuristic rules and dialogs database and as the dialog data structure instructs communicate with the customer about one or more owner s manuals repair manuals or other types of manuals. In another example if the social media message includes the words buy sell price discount or other types of words that may indicate the user or customer wishes to buy a product the text processing component can retrieve one or more dialog data structures from the heuristic rules and dialogs database that can provide instruction to assist the customer in purchasing products or services from the enterprise.

The analysis tools component is operable to analyze response messages received back from an agent interface . In analyzing the agent s responses the analysis tools component can determine if the dialog data structures originally retrieved by the text processing component met the needs of the customer. In the analysis the agent may enter one or more items of information for the analysis tools component about the response and about how the response matched with the dialog data structures. The analysis tools component can review the response and determine if it was similar to the response provided by the dialog data structure. Thus the analysis tools component can provide information to the dialog core or the dialog creator to improve the dialog data structures that are included in the heuristic rules and dialogs database .

The message history database can be any database or data storage system as described in conjunction with . Thus the message history database can store data in data fields objects or other data structures to allow other systems to retrieve that information at a later time. The message history database can store previous messages or information about previous messages. Thus for example if the trend analysis component is analyzing several messages over a period of time the trend analysis component can retrieve information about previous messages associated with the current analysis from the message history database . As such the trend analysis component can better detect trends occurring at the social media networks and or . The data stored by the message history database can include the entire message or only a portion of the message and in some circumstances include metadata about the message s .

The heuristic rules and dialogs database can be any type of database or data storage system as described in conjunction with . The heuristic rules and dialogs database can store information in data fields data objects and or any other data structures. The heuristic rules and dialogs database stores rules and dialogs data structures that automate responses to received social media messages. The dialogs data structures control the interaction between the dialog core and the social media network and or . The dialogs or heuristic rules can be created by a dialog creator . Thus the dialog creator can interface with user input to receive information about dialogs. The user input is then used to form the states and responses for a dialog data structure.

An agent interface is a communication system operable to send action items to contact center agents in the contact center . An agent can be a person or other system that is operable to respond to certain questions or requests from a customer. For example the agent can be a person that has specialized expertise in a topic area such as technical support. The agent interface can format the social message into an action item and forward that message to one or more agents . The agent interface can also receive response s back from the agents . The information provided by the agent may be used by the dialog core to complete a response to the social media message or other contact. For example the information may classify the social media message e.g. sales service etc. . In other situations the response is a complete response to the social media message that can be posted to the social media network and or . It should be noted that the answer based agent routing described hereinafter may be implemented in other types of call center or customer service centers other than that previously described. Thus the answer based agent routing systems and methods described hereinafter are not limited to the social media call center described above.

An embodiment of an analysis tools component is shown in . The analysis tool component can include one or more sub modules or components including one or more of but not limited to a dialog analysis module and an agent dialog analysis engine . The sub modules may be embodied in hardware software or hardware and software. The different sub modules may have access to one or more databases including a heuristic rules and dialogs database . Further the sub modules may receive input from supervisor selections or from an active dialog . There may be outputs including a response to an agent dialog response engine which is as described in conjunction with . Further one or more items of information may be stored in a database that may be part of or in communication with the analysis tools component . For example information may be stored in a norms database .

The dialog analysis module may analyze or compare one or more dialogs. The dialog analysis module can receive supervisor selections of one or more dialogs in the heuristic rules and dialogs database . Thus the supervisor can select past dialogs past that have been successful for agents with respect to a particular problem. In other instances the dialog analysis module may automatically identify different dialogs within the database that have been successful. For example an instance of a dialog that has been successful may have an identifier which allows the dialog analysis module to identify the successful dialogs and extract those from the database . These successful dialogs may be then matched for norms.

A norm can be a type of language used a word used timing for different steps an order of steps used or any other type of information about the dialog. If the successful dialogs have similarities between them those similarities may be stored as norms in the norms database . Thus the dialog analysis module can determine a set of information to which indicates a dialog has been successful and then can store that information in norms database . The norms information and any successful dialogs may then be passed to the agent dialog analysis engine .

The agent dialog analysis engine can receive an active dialog . An active dialog is a dialog that is currently being used by an agent to answer a question or address a customer contact. These active dialogs may be compared in real time to any of the norms information in or to any successful dialog received by the dialog analysis module . Based on this comparison the agent dialog analysis engine can determine if the active dialog is likely to lead to success. Here if the active dialog is not following norms or successful paths identified in past successful dialog s the agent dialog analysis engine can determine that the active dialog is deviating from a successful path. This deviation may be quantified and any response required may be triggered by a message sent to the agent dialog response engine .

An embodiment of an agent dialog analysis engine is shown in . The dialog answer from an active dialog may be provided to the agent dialog analysis engine . The dialog answer may be a portion or a part of the active dialog . The dialog answer may be first reviewed or analyzed by an answer analyzer . The answer analyzer can do a comparison to one or more of the norms or to successful past dialogs. The answer analyzer then can pass the dialog answer to an entrainment analyzer . The answer analyzer determines if the time elapsed in the active position of the active dialog is within normal parameters as indicated in norms . The answer analyzer can also determine if a phrase used was also successful in those paths or an order of steps currently used in the active dialog has been successful in the past.

The entrainment analyzer can evaluate whether the words or word used within the dialog answer compares to one or more of the norms. For example the entrainment analyzer may utilize synonym analysis or other types of text processing techniques. The entrainment analyzer may analyze the one or more words used in the dialog answer . Thus between the answer analyzer and the entrainment analyzer the dialog answer can be compared using several different parameters against the different norms and any past successful dialogs. The information from the analysis is passed to the resolution predictor .

The resolution predictor can determine the resolution state of the current dialog answer and or active dialog . A resolution state is a probability that the current active dialog may resolve itself to a successful conclusion. This determination may be completed through language analysis some other information and or include information provided by the answer analyzer and or the entrainment analyzer .

The chance of resolution or predictor of resolution state may then be provided to the grading module which then can quantify through weights probabilities and other statistical analysis whether or not the possibility of deviation from a successful path is great enough to warrant a response. The grading module may determine and or indicate that the deviation is greater or over a predetermined threshold. For example the grading module may determine that the likelihood of an unsuccessful completion is at a confidence interval of 75 and if so send an indication of unsuccessful completion to a response router . The response router can then send a signal to the agent dialog response engine to resolve the issue with the deviating dialog.

An embodiment of the agent dialog response engine is shown in . An agent dialog response engine can receive agent analysis from the analysis tools component . The agent dialog response engine may then provide an output such as a response to the deviating dialog shown in response . This response may be some indication to involve a supervisor provide an adjustment to the dialog to get the agent back on a successful path or a determination that a new dialog or some other change is required.

The agent dialog response engine can include one or more sub modules or components. For example the agent dialog response engine can include one or more of but is not limited to a warning module a dialog readjustment module a new dialog module and or a supervisor module . Based on the agent analysis one of these modules may be activated to provide the response . The dialog readjustment module can be used when the agent dialog response engine has deemed that the current contact may be changed and returned to a successful path. In such a case the dialog readjustment module may send a series of steps to the agent to return them to a successful path of interaction with the customer. These steps may include returning to a previous step in the dialog repeating a step changing to a different dialog etc. These steps may be provided automatically in the agent interface .

A warning module may provide a warning to the agent that they are deviating from a successful path. This warning may be some sort of indicia whether visual or audible that the user has deviated from a possible successful path of completion in the custom interaction. The warning allows the agent to readjust their interaction and return to a more successful path for completing the interaction with the customer.

A new dialog module can determine that the interaction has deviated in a way that a new dialog may need to be created. In this situation the new dialog module can signal that this interaction is unique or requires further evaluation and that information is then used in the future to create a new dialog. Any information about the deviation may be provided to a dialog creator to create the new dialog.

The supervisor module can create a warning and attach any other information to send to a supervisor station. Thus the supervisor module can include the analysis the active dialog and any other information required by the supervisor to evaluate and react to the situation with the customer interaction. The interaction or resolution may be sent as a response to a supervisor device agent device or other systems within the contact center server .

An embodiment of a database for storing norms associated with one or more dialogs is shown in . There may be several dialogs shown in rows through . This information about the dialogs can be stored as a flat file database a relation database an object oriented database or some other type of database. Each dialog may then be associated with one or more different items of information that are shown in fields using any number of database storage techniques. For example each row in the database shown in has a field for dialog identifier a time elapsed field a words used field phrases used field and or an outcome field . There may be more or fewer fields than those shown in as represented by ellipses .

The dialog identifier can include any type of identifier that uniquely identifies that dialog amongst other dialogs listed in the database . The dialog identifier can be an alphanumeric identifier a globally unique identifier GUID or some other type of identifier. The dialog identifier may identify the dialog or a portion of the dialog to which the statistical information or norms pertain.

The time elapsed field can include an average time used for that dialog or portion of the dialog. The time elapsed field can be used to determine that the agent is spending too long on a certain portion of the dialog.

The words used field can include the norms of language that are used for the dialog or the section of the dialog. The words used field may also be extrapolated for known synonyms or other language that may be similar to the words used in past dialogs. Thus the words used field can include several different words whether those words are used in a past dialog or may be similar to them.

A phrase used field can include any phrases that were used in past dialogs. The phrase used field may also include similar phrases within the field . Between the words used field and the phrases used field language for the dialog or past dialogs may be stored such that if there are deviations the deviations may be indicated in active dialogs.

An outcome field may include the type of outcome for the dialog. For past dialogs the outcome is likely to be successful. However unsuccessful dialogs may also be provided in database to determine if the active dialog is similar to the unsuccessful dialog. Thus the outcome field may also include outcomes that were not successful. In this way past dialogs may indicate not only a deviation from a successful path but a similarity to an unsuccessful path.

An embodiment of a method for establishing norms with past dialogs is shown in . While a general order for the steps of the method is shown in the method can include more or fewer steps and the steps may be arranged in a different order than shown in . Generally the method starts with a start operation and ends with an end operation . The method can include more or fewer steps or can arrange the order of the steps differently than those shown in . The method can be executed as a set of computer executable instructions executed by a computer system and encoded or stored on a computer readable medium. Further the method can be executed by a gate or other hardware device or component in an Application Specific Integrated Circuit a Field Programmable Gate Array or other type of hardware device. Hereinafter the method shall be explained with reference to the systems components modules software data structures user interfaces etc. described herein.

The dialog analysis module can receive a dialog choice s from the supervisor in step . The supervisor selections may be made in a user interface that is associated with a dialog and may be received by the dialog analysis module . These selections may indicate which past dialogs in the database are to be reviewed and compared for norms.

The dialog analysis module may then access the dialogs database to retrieve past dialogs in step . The retrieved past dialogs can be as selected by the supervisor in the supervisor selection . Further the dialog analysis module may access all dialogs of a similar type that were successful in the past. Thus the heuristic rules and dialogs database can include an indication of the outcome of the dialog such as that stored in field . Here the dialog analysis module may retrieve any dialog or a dialog of a certain ID with an outcome that is successful. Still further the dialog analysis module may also retrieve dialogs with the dialog with an unsuccessful outcome . These dialogs may then be used for comparison purposes.

The dialog analysis module may then map the dialogs for norms in step . Here the dialogs that are successful may be compared for similar words used and similar phrases used that can be stored in fields . Further the amount of time elapsed for successful portions for the dialog may be stored in field . These norms provide for an average or common equivalence for successful dialogs. The norms may also include any kind of normal or abnormal behavior for unsuccessful dialogs. This information may also be stored. Thus the dialog analysis module can establish the norms for successful and unsuccessful dialogs in step . These norms may then be stored in the norms database .

At some time thereinafter an active dialog may be reviewed by the agent dialog analysis engine . The agent dialog analysis engine may request the norms and or successful databases related to the active dialog . The dialog analysis module can retrieve the norms from the norms database and successful dialogs from the dialog database and provide those norms for analysis in step . The successful dialogs may be provided for analysis in step .

An embodiment of a method for reviewing an active dialog is shown in . While a general order for the steps of the method is shown in the method can include more or fewer steps and the steps may be arranged in a different order than shown in . Generally the method starts with a start operation and ends with an end operation . The method can include more or fewer steps or can arrange the order of the steps differently than those shown in . The method can be executed as a set of computer executable instructions executed by a computer system and encoded or stored on a computer readable medium. Further the method can be executed by a gate or other hardware device or component in an Application Specific Integrated Circuit a Field Programmable Gate Array or other type of hardware device. Hereinafter the method shall be explained with reference to the systems components modules software data structures user interfaces etc. described herein.

Here the agent dialog analysis engine can receive norms for the dialog analysis module in step . The agent dialog analysis engine can request the norms from the dialog analysis module . In response the dialog analysis module can retrieve the norms from the norms database and send the norms back to the agent dialog analysis engine .

The agent dialog analysis engine can also request one or more successful and or unsuccessful dialogs from the dialog analysis module . The dialog analysis module can retrieve the requested dialog s from the dialog database and forward those dialog s to the dialog analysis engine . The agent dialog analysis engine can receive the dialogs in step .

The norms and successful and or unsuccessful dialogs may now be compared to the active dialog by the agent dialog analysis engine in step . The answer analyzer may compare the time elapsed for a question any phrases used may be analyzed or other information may be analyzed with respect to the norms and or in the comparison to a successful or unsuccessful dialog. The entrainment analyzer may also compare the words used in any kind of dialog answer in the active dialog to norms or other dialogs. This information may then be provided to the resolution predictor .

The agent dialog analysis engine can also determine a degree of deviation for the active dialog . Thus the decision of whether the active dialog will or will not be successful may not be binary but a level of separation from past successful paths. To determine the degree of deviation the agent dialog analysis engine may evaluate the current agent s skill and or experience level the intent of the dialog the quality of the model dialogs used in any comparison etc. Some agents may be allowed more deviation than other agents. For example new agents may not be allowed to deviate far from a past successful path but for an experienced agent with a high success rate and on a topic where there are few past dialogs to use in the comparison the experienced agent may be allowed to deviate much farther from a successful path. This flexibility provides the advantage of discovering new successful dialogs created when a path deviates from past dialogs. Thus the agent dialog analysis engine can provide the resolution predictor a degree of deviation which may be any metric as known in the art to calculate such a separation.

The resolution predictor can determine the intent and or possible resolution state in step . Here the resolution predictor may based on the analysis determine the correlation between the active dialog and one or more successful unsuccessful dialogs. Further the resolution predictor may determine a correlation between the time elapsed words used and phrases used in fields through to the active dialog . This analysis may provide a correlation between the norms and the active dialog . Further still the resolution predictor can compare the active dialog to unsuccessful dialogs to determine a correlation to an unsuccessful outcome. Further there is also an agent component to the resolution predictor. Agents that have been highly successful in the past may be more likely to be successful with a dialog that deviates from a past known and successful dialog. The skilled agent may also have a better success rate that a lower skilled agent even when in the same dialog state. Thus agent experience and skill may also effect the resolution prediction. This information may then be used to determine the likelihood that a resolution may be needed for the active dialog . The resolution state may then be provided to the grading module .

The grading module may then quantify the deviation from success in step . The grading module may provide weights or measures of the comparisons between words phrases times or other information used in the analysis. The grading module may also provide weights or measures to the resolution state and intent provided by the resolution predictor . This information quantifies whether or not the current active dialog appears to be on course to a successful resolution. If there is a deviation that amount of deviation may be quantified by an algorithm measuring the different analysis as understood in the art.

The information from the grading module is presented to the response router which determines if a problem with the current active dialog needs to be addressed in step . Here the response router receives a deviation from a successful outcome and the degree of that deviation. If the degree of deviation is slight or if there is no deviation the method proceeds NO back to step to continue to analyze the active dialog as the dialog continues. However if there is a deviation and that deviation needs addressing the method proceeds YES to step .

In another situation the grading module may capture words and or phrases that are outside of the normative response. For example the agent may instruct a customer to power cycle a faulty modem. The customer may reply that they have power cycled the modem which is the correct action and that there is a lot of dust on the modem which is extra information. The extra information may not be relevant at the current point in the dialog but can be important at some point thereinafter. For example dust related failures may only account for 2 of all modem issues Thus the grading module would not assume that dust is a problem. However as the number of dialog turns increases the probability of the dust being the issue increases as the issues having a higher likelihood of being the root cause are dismissed.

With this example the dust issue is a known factor but is a possible cause with a low probability. Thus the dust may not be an unknown factor. The customer s statement about the power cycling the modem and the dust may be both a statement that contains both dialog satisfying text and text that is outside of what is expected at that point. The grading module may capture the text that is outside of the dialog as dialog state information that might influence future dialog turns or be a determinate in why a dialog might not be reaching success. Thus the grading module may differentiate components of the response that contribute to the grading because they are known concepts words phrases that fit in the current dialog state and other components of the response that might deviate unknown or improbable words from the current state. The grading module may store the deviations for future reference in the grading of subsequent states. For example after three more dialog turns the word dust which was captured earlier could influence the grading of the current response to select a different dialog path. If the response includes expected content and unexpected content and the expected content satisfies the threshold for advancing the dialog then the unexpected content could be stored for possible future use. If the dialog proceeds to success then the unexpected content can be discarded. If the dialog fails to reach success then the agent can be prompted to ask about the unexpected content.

In step the response router sends a signal to the agent dialog response engine that a response is needed. The agent dialog response engine then determines a resolution to the problem in step . Here the agent analysis is processed by the dialog readjustment module the warning module the new dialog module and or the supervisor module . Based on the degree of deviation or the seriousness of the problem one of the modules through determines a resolution to the problem. This response then is sent in packet . The response can be a warning to the agent a warning to the supervisor a dialog readjustment and or a new dialog request. One of these responses may be enacted by the contact center server in step . Thus if the warning module is sent to an agent the agent may enact a resolution by reacting to the warning. Similarly the dialog readjustment may be performed by the agent to readjust the dialog. The signal to the supervisor may be sent to a supervisor s device allowing the supervisor to respond to the issue.

Finally if a new dialog is requested that information may be sent to the dialog creator to create a new dialog in database . For example if a deviation from past dialogs is successful the deviating dialog may be used to create a new dialog for agents in the future. Thus the reaction to a deviation can be to create a newly successful dialog by learning the parameters that made the dialog successful and incorporating those parameters into a new dialog.

Environment further includes a network . The network may can be any type of network familiar to those skilled in the art that can support data communications using any of a variety of commercially available protocols including without limitation SIP TCP IP SNA IPX AppleTalk and the like. Merely by way of example the network maybe a local area network LAN such as an Ethernet network a Token Ring network and or the like a wide area network a virtual network including without limitation a virtual private network VPN the Internet an intranet an extranet a public switched telephone network PSTN an infra red network a wireless network e.g. a network operating under any of the IEEE 802.11 suite of protocols the Bluetooth protocol known in the art and or any other wireless protocol and or any combination of these and or other networks.

The system may also include one or more server . In this example server is shown as a web server and server is shown as an application server. The web server which may be used to process requests for web pages or other electronic documents from user computers and . The web server can be running an operating system including any of those discussed above as well as any commercially available server operating systems. The web server can also run a variety of server applications including SIP servers HTTP servers FTP servers CGI servers database servers Java servers and the like. In some instances the web server may publish operations available operations as one or more web services.

The environment may also include one or more file and or application servers which can in addition to an operating system include one or more applications accessible by a client running on one or more of the user computers . The server s and or may be one or more general purpose computers capable of executing programs or scripts in response to the user computers and . As one example the server may execute one or more web applications. The web application may be implemented as one or more scripts or programs written in any programming language such as Java C C or C and or any scripting language such as Perl Python or TCL as well as combinations of any programming scripting languages. The application server s may also include database servers including without limitation those commercially available from Oracle Microsoft Sybase IBM and the like which can process requests from database clients running on a user computer .

The web pages created by the server and or may be forwarded to a user computer via a web file server . Similarly the web server may be able to receive web page requests web services invocations and or input data from a user computer and can forward the web page requests and or input data to the web application server . In further embodiments the web server may function as a file server. Although for ease of description illustrates a separate web server and file application server those skilled in the art will recognize that the functions described with respect to servers may be performed by a single server and or a plurality of specialized servers depending on implementation specific needs and parameters. The computer systems and web file server and or web application server may function as the system devices or components described in .

The environment may also include a database . The database may reside in a variety of locations. By way of example database may reside on a storage medium local to and or resident in one or more of the computers . Alternatively it may be remote from any or all of the computers and in communication e.g. via the network with one or more of these. The database may reside in a storage area network SAN familiar to those skilled in the art. Similarly any necessary files for performing the functions attributed to the computers may be stored locally on the respective computer and or remotely as appropriate. The database may be a relational database such as Oracle 10i that is adapted to store update and retrieve data in response to SQL formatted commands.

The computer system may additionally include a computer readable storage media reader a communications system e.g. a modem a network card wireless or wired an infra red communication device etc. and working memory which may include RAM and ROM devices as described above. The computer system may also include a processing acceleration unit which can include a DSP a special purpose processor and or the like.

The computer readable storage media reader can further be connected to a computer readable storage medium together and optionally in combination with storage device s comprehensively representing remote local fixed and or removable storage devices plus storage media for temporarily and or more permanently containing computer readable information. The communications system may permit data to be exchanged with the network and or any other computer described above with respect to the computer system . Moreover as disclosed herein the term storage medium may represent one or more devices for storing data including read only memory ROM random access memory RAM magnetic RAM core memory magnetic disk storage mediums optical storage mediums flash memory devices and or other machine readable mediums for storing information.

The computer system may also comprise software elements shown as being currently located within a working memory including an operating system and or other code . It should be appreciated that alternate embodiments of a computer system may have numerous variations from that described above. For example customized hardware might also be used and or particular elements might be implemented in hardware software including portable software such as applets or both. Further connection to other computing devices such as network input output devices may be employed.

In the foregoing description for the purposes of illustration methods were described in a particular order. It should be appreciated that in alternate embodiments the methods may be performed in a different order than that described. It should also be appreciated that the methods described above may be performed by hardware components or may be embodied in sequences of machine executable instructions which may be used to cause a machine such as a general purpose or special purpose processor or logic circuits programmed with the instructions to perform the methods. These machine executable instructions may be stored on one or more machine readable mediums such as CD ROMs or other type of optical disks floppy diskettes ROMs RAMs EPROMs EEPROMs magnetic or optical cards flash memory or other types of machine readable mediums suitable for storing electronic instructions. Alternatively the methods may be performed by a combination of hardware and software.

Specific details were given in the description to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments. However it will be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art that the embodiments may be practiced without these specific details. For example circuits may be shown in block diagrams in order not to obscure the embodiments in unnecessary detail. In other instances well known circuits processes algorithms structures and techniques may be shown without unnecessary detail in order to avoid obscuring the embodiments.

Also it is noted that the embodiments were described as a process which is depicted as a flowchart a flow diagram a data flow diagram a structure diagram or a block diagram. Although a flowchart may describe the operations as a sequential process many of the operations can be performed in parallel or concurrently. In addition the order of the operations may be re arranged. A process is terminated when its operations are completed but could have additional steps not included in the Fig. A process may correspond to a method a function a procedure a subroutine a subprogram etc. When a process corresponds to a function its termination corresponds to a return of the function to the calling function or the main function.

Furthermore embodiments may be implemented by hardware software firmware middleware microcode hardware description languages or any combination thereof. When implemented in software firmware middleware or microcode the program code or code segments to perform the necessary tasks may be stored in a machine readable medium such as storage medium. A processor s may perform the necessary tasks. A code segment may represent a procedure a function a subprogram a program a routine a subroutine a module a software package a class or any combination of instructions data structures or program statements. A code segment may be coupled to another code segment or a hardware circuit by passing and or receiving information data arguments parameters or memory contents. Information arguments parameters data etc. may be passed forwarded or transmitted via any suitable means including memory sharing message passing token passing network transmission etc.

While illustrative embodiments have been described in detail herein it is to be understood that the inventive concepts may be otherwise variously embodied and employed and that the appended claims are intended to be construed to include such variations except as limited by the prior art.

