---

title: Snooze alarm system for a wearable device
abstract: A wearable device in one embodiment includes a motion detection sensor, an alarm clock and a sleep monitor operatively coupled to the motion detection sensor and the alarm clock. The sleep monitor monitors a person during sleep by collecting motion detection sensor data at a first data collection rate and determines a sleep state of the person based on the collected motion detection sensor data at the first data collection rate. If the sleep monitor detects that the alarm clock has entered a snooze mode, then the first data collection rate is increased to a second data collection rate and motion detection sensor data is collected at the second data collection rate while the alarm clock system in the snooze mode.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09152131&OS=09152131&RS=09152131
owner: Google Technology Holdings LLC
number: 09152131
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130715
---
The present disclosure claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 781 293 filed Mar. 14 2013 entitled SNOOZE ALARM SYSTEM FOR A WEARABLE DEVICE which is hereby incorporated herein in its entirety.

The present disclosure relates generally to wearable devices and other mobile devices and more particularly to devices that monitor the sleep cycles or sleep state of the user.

Various alarm clock systems and other monitoring systems exist that operate by collecting some physiological parameters of the user during sleep and processing the data in order to determine one or more sleep states of the user. Sleep states may be considered as falling into four broad categories a the deep sleep state b the shallow sleep state c the Rapid Eye Movement REM state and d an intermediate state where the user is partially awake yet partially sleep. Additionally the data obtained from scientific research implies that the most optimum waking up experience is realized when a person transitions from the REM state to the awake state.

Determination of a person s sleep states may be accomplished using known techniques and a variety of mechanisms exist for controlling and regulating the wake up and snooze alarms based on such techniques. In one example alarm clock system a wake up alarm is triggered based on a user defined wake up time following which either the user acknowledges this alarm or where the alarm is automatically disabled after a predefined period of time. Subsequent to this event the first of a series of snooze alarm modes is automatically enabled. At this point in time the user must perform some action to disable the first or all of the snooze alarm modes. Also depending on the sleep state of the user during the subsequent snooze alarms the user may or may not respond to the subsequent snooze alarms.

The present disclosure provides various systems devices and methods of operation. One method of operation includes monitoring a person during sleep by collecting sensor data at a first data collection rate and determining a sleep state of the person based on the collected sensor data at the first data collection rate. Upon detecting that an alarm clock system has entered a snooze mode the method includes increasing the first data collection rate to a second data collection rate and collecting sensor data at the second data collection rate while the alarm clock system in the snooze mode.

The method of operation may also increase the rate of determining the sleep state of the person while the alarm clock system in the snooze mode. The method of may also include making a determination that the person is awake and automatically disabling the snooze mode.

The method of operation also may include determining that the person has entered into a given sleep state while the alarm clock system in the snooze mode and immediately triggering a snooze alarm in response to the determination of the given sleep state. For example the method of operation may involve determining that the person has entered into a rapid eye movement REM sleep state and triggering the alarm at that point.

The collection of sensor data may be accomplished by collecting motion data as the sensor data however other types of data may be collected in some embodiments such as the person s temperature or some other physiological parameter.

In some embodiments the method of operation may increase the first data collection rate to a second data collection rate by increasing a clock frequency driving a motion data collector. The method of may also include sending collected sensor data from a first device to a second device over a wireless link and receiving a control signal at the first device from the second device and increasing the first data collection rate to the second data collection rate in response to the control signal.

In another embodiment the method may include processing collected sensor data at a first device to determine the given sleep state of the person and sending a control signal from the first device to a second device and immediately triggering the snooze alarm in response to the control signal.

The present disclosure also provides a wearable device that has a motion detection sensor an alarm clock system and a sleep monitor. The sleep monitor is operatively coupled to the motion detection sensor and the alarm clock and is operative to monitor a person during sleep by collecting motion detection sensor data at a first data collection rate. The sleep monitor determines a sleep state of the person based on the collected motion detection sensor data at the first data collection rate detects that the alarm clock system has entered a snooze mode and increases the first data collection rate to a second data collection rate and collects motion detection sensor data at the second data collection rate while the alarm clock system in the snooze mode.

The sleep monitor is also operative to increase the rate of determining the sleep state of the person while the alarm clock system in the snooze mode. The sleep monitor may determine that the person is awake and automatically disable the snooze mode or may determine that the person has entered into a given sleep state while the alarm clock system in the snooze mode and immediately trigger a snooze alarm in response to the determination of the given sleep state. For example the sleep monitor is operative to determine that the person has entered into a REM sleep state and immediately trigger the snooze alarm in response to the person entering the REM sleep state.

The sleep monitor also increases a frequency or rate of sleep state determination events while the alarm clock system in the snooze mode.

Another disclosed wearable device includes a motion detection sensor and a motion data collector operatively coupled to the motion detection sensor. The motion data collector collects motion detection sensor data at a first data collection rate and sends the motion detection sensor data to a second device using a wireless link based on the first data collection rate. The motion data collector may receive a control signal from the second device using the wireless link and increase the first data collection rate to a second data collection rate and collect motion detection sensor data at the second data collection rate and send the motion detection sensor data to the second device using the wireless link based on the second data collection rate. A clock circuit may be operatively coupled to the motion data collector such that the motion data collector may increase the first data collection rate to the second data collection rate by increasing a clock frequency of the clock circuit in response to the control signal from the second device.

A system is disclosed that includes a wearable device as described above and a mobile device. The mobile device includes an alarm clock and a sleep monitor operatively coupled to the alarm clock. The sleep monitor obtains motion detection sensor data from the wearable device using the wireless link and determines a sleep state of a person based on the collected motion detection sensor data at the first data collection rate. The sleep monitor in the mobile device also detects that the alarm clock has entered a snooze mode and sends a control signal to the wearable device using the wireless link to increase the first data collection rate to the second data collection rate. In the disclosed system the sleep monitor in the processes collects motion sensor data to determine a given sleep state of the person and immediately triggers a snooze alarm in response to a control signal. The given sleep state may be a REM sleep state or some other sleep state or sleep state transition.

Turning now to the drawings illustrates a partial schematic block diagram of a first device and a second device that form a system in accordance with some embodiments. It is to be understood that the schematic block diagrams provided herein in and are partial schematic block diagrams in that although the diagrams show at least those components necessary to describe the features and advantages of the various embodiments to those of ordinary skill various other components circuitry and devices may be necessary in order to implement a complete functional apparatus such as the example wearable and other mobile devices and that those various other components circuitry devices etc. are understood to be present in the various embodiments by those of ordinary skill.

In the first device is a wearable device which includes a wireless transceiver . As mobile devices decrease in size due to continuing advances in miniaturization technologies some have become wearable devices in the sense that these devices may be worn by a user as a fashion accessory such as jewelry an article of clothing a portion of an article of clothing etc. A wearable device may have any suitable structure and therefore the possible wearable devices may include a ring a wristwatch a button or brooch which may include a pin for attaching to clothing or a patch that may be sewn to or into clothing such as a shirt or blouse etc. Other example wearable devices may include an anklet a belt buckle etc.

The wireless transceiver of the wearable device may utilize any suitable wireless technology such as Bluetooth Wireless USB ZigBee or any other suitable wireless technology that may form a wireless link between the first device and the second device to transfer information or command and control signaling there between. The second device which may be a mobile device includes a like wireless transceiver which can also receive wireless signals from and send wireless signals to the wireless transceiver of the first device over the wireless link . The first device includes a sensor operatively coupled to a data collector . The various devices that are described herein as being operatively coupled means that one or more intermediate or intervening components may exist between or along the connection path between two such components such that the components are understood to be operatively coupled in that data or commands or control signals can be sent from one to the other and vice versa.

The wireless sensor may be any suitable sensor that can sense and collect motion data such as but not limited to an accelerometer a gyroscopic position sensor a capacitive touch sensor configured to detect motion etc. In other embodiments the sensor may be a physiological sensor that detects temperature or heart rate etc.

The data collector may in some embodiments be driven by an adjustable clock circuit . The adjustable clock circuit provides a pulse train at predetermined intervals of time in order to drive the data collector to obtain data from the sensor . The adjustable clock circuit may be adjusted so that the frequency or rate of data collection from the sensor by the data collector may be increased or decreased by adjusting the frequency or rate of the adjustable clock circuit . The data collector is also operatively coupled to the transceiver such that it may send data over the wireless link to the second device . The data collector is also operative to receive command and control signals from the second device by way of the transceiver and the wireless link . For example a controller within the second device may send a command signal to the data collector and the adjustable clock circuit to increase the clock frequency or rate so that the rate of data collection from the sensor by the data collector is likewise increased.

The second device which may be a mobile device such as a mobile telephone or a standalone electronic alarm clock or some other electronic device includes a sleep monitor . The sleep monitor may have components that include a sleep data processing unit that is operatively coupled to the wireless transceiver and to the controller . The controller is in turn operatively coupled to the alarm clock and provides intermediary control to the alarm clock based on information obtained from the sleep data processing unit . For example the sleep data processing unit may determine a sleep cycle or sleep state of the person wearing the wearable device i.e. first device . The sleep data processing unit may develop a hypnagogic record such as for example a hypnagogic chart or graph of a particular user s sleep pattern such that the alarm clock may be adjusted according to the particular individuals sleep pattern. The alarm clock includes a snooze mode that may be invoked automatically when the primary wake up alarm is not immediately acknowledged by the user or when the user manually invokes the snooze mode. For example the user may wake up partially in response to the wake up alarm and press a button on the second device that invokes the snooze mode. In accordance with various embodiments in response to snooze mode of the alarm clock going into operation the controller will detect snooze mode and will send a control signal over the wireless link to the first device . The control signal will increase the clock greater frequency of adjustable clock circuit such that the data collector begins to collect sensor data from sensor at a second data collection rate which is higher than the first data collection rate.

Collection of the sensor data from sensor at the second data collection rate continues as long as the alarm clock is in the sleep mode. Among other advantages increasing the data collection rate of the data collector enhances the granularity of the hypnagogic information which is processed by the sleep data processing unit such that transitions from one sleep state to another sleep state may be more readily detected such that features of the alarm clock such as but not limited to the snooze mode may be more appropriately controlled for a particular user s physiology.

In one example of advantages realized by the various embodiments the controller of the sleep monitor may detect that alarm clock has entered into a snooze mode and accordingly increase the rate of data collection by the data collector to a second data collection rate which is higher than a first data collection rate. The sleep data processing unit will receive the collected sensor data and process the data accordingly to determine the user s sleep state and any transitions from one sleep state to another.

Based on a particular given sleep state or on a detected transition from one sleep state to another sleep state the controller may send a control signal to the alarm clock to immediately trigger the snooze alarm and attempt to wake up the user. For example the sleep data processing unit may determine from the sensor data collected at the second data collection rate that the user has entered into REM sleep. The controller may then send a control signal to the alarm clock to trigger the snooze alarm. In other words the controller will trigger the snooze alarm prior to expiration of the snooze alarm timer based on a given sleep state or a transition from one sleep state to another sleep state detected by the sleep monitor . Unlike prior systems the increase in rates of data collection during the snooze mode provides the advantage of being more likely to detect transitions from one sleep state to another sleep state while the alarm clock is in the snooze mode.

In addition to increasing the data collection rate the sleep data processing unit may also increase the number of intervals in other words the frequency or rate at which the sleep state determinations are made. Another system in accordance with another embodiment is illustrated in .

A first device which may be a wearable device includes a sleep monitor operatively coupled to a transceiver which is the same type transceiver that uses the same type of wireless link as the system described in the embodiment of . The sleep monitor is likewise operatively coupled to a sensor and to an adjustable clock circuit . The sleep monitor may be composed of a controller and a sleep data collection and processing unit . That is in the embodiment illustrated in the data collection and sleep data processing functions are integrated into a single unit. The second device is operative to communication with the first device using the wireless link and may be a mobile device alarm clock or some other electronic device similar to the second device described with respect to . The second device includes a wireless transceiver and an alarm clock . The alarm clock is operatively coupled to the transceiver via an interface . The interface is operative to receive command and control signals from the sleep monitor of the first device . Operation of the system illustrated in is similar to operation of the system shown in however in the operational decisions are made by the sleep monitor located in the first device . As the sensor senses data the sleep data collection and processing unit collects the data from the sensor according to the rate or frequency of the clock pulse generated by adjustable clock circuit . The controller may receive information from the alarm clock via the interface and over the wireless link that informs the controller when the alarm clock has entered a sleep mode of operation. In that case the controller may control the adjustable clock circuit to increase the clock rate or frequency which accordingly increases the rate of data collection of the sleep data collection and processing unit . That is the data collection rate is increased from a first data collection rate to a higher second data collection rate.

Accordingly the sleep data collection and processing unit will also increase the intervals for making a determination of the user sleep state based on the increased amount of data received from the sensor . Upon determination of a given sleep state or determination of a transition from one sleep state to another sleep state by the sleep data collection and processing unit the controller may appropriately sent command and control signals over the wireless link to the second device . For example if the sleep data collection processing unit detects that the user has transitioned from one sleep state to a given sleep state the controller may send a command signal over the wireless link to the alarm clock by way of the interface . The control signal may cause the alarm clock to immediately trigger and sound the snooze alarm in response to the user having entered or transitioned to a given sleep state. As discussed in the example above with respect to this may be done when the user enters a REM sleep state. However this action may be taken for various other sleep states that may be in some embodiments predetermined by the user and set on the second device through a user interface.

The various components of the first device or second device shown in and the various components of the first device and second device shown in may include memory which may be a combination of volatile and nonvolatile memory elements. For example the alarm clock may include non volatile memory which is operative to store settings set by the user and which may be adjusted by the sleep monitor or based on the hypnagogic chart developed by the sleep monitor for the specific user.

The various components shown and described in and may be implemented independently as software and or firmware executing on one or more programmable processors and may also include or may be implemented independently using ASICs DSPs hardwired circuitry logic circuitry or combinations thereof. That is the sleep monitors may be implemented using an ASIC DSP executable code executing on a processor logic circuitry or combinations thereof.

The adjustable clock circuit may be implemented in any of the above described ways and or may be built from using oscillators comparators operational amplifiers other active components such as transistors and passive components such as but not limited to capacitors resistors etc. all of which are understood to be present by those of ordinary skill for implementing an adjustable clock circuit. In some embodiments the clock circuit or any of the other components may be integrated into or provided by the sleep monitors as shown in the respective figures.

In the embodiment illustrated in the sleep monitor is software or firmware that may operate in an application layer of a protocol stack executed by the processor . That is the sleep monitor may have corresponding executable code C stored in memory that is read from memory by processor and executed accordingly to perform the methods of operation and to provide the features and functions herein described. Additionally the alarm clock may be an application having executable code that is executed and run by the processor . The alarm clock executable code C may also be stored in memory and read and executed by processor accordingly.

In accordance with some embodiments the sleep monitor interacts with alarm clock by an application programming interface API . The API enables exchange of information and command and control signals between the controller of the sleep monitor and the alarm clock . For example the controller may detect when the alarm clock enters into the snooze mode by receiving information from the alarm clock via the API . Likewise the controller may send a control signal to the alarm clock through the API to trigger the snooze alarm in certain circumstances as were described above with respect to and . Additionally based on the hypnagogic information developed by the sleep data collection and processing unit of the sleep monitor the controller may send adjustment signals to the alarm clock via the API . That is the controller may adjust various settings of the alarm clock based on hypnagogic chart developed for a specific user.

The memory may store the hypnagogic information for use by the alarm clock and the hypnagogic information may be updated from time to time by the controller of the sleep monitor . The sleep monitor executes on processor and accesses the memory via a communication bus which operatively connects the processor to the memory . The wearable device may also include a display which in some embodiments may provide a graphical user interface. The wearable device also includes other UI which may be any suitable user interfaces such as buttons a mouse control touch sensor controls gesture controls gyroscopic controls or any other suitable user interface. The sensor may be an accelerometer a gyroscopic sensor a capacitive touch sensor or any other suitable sensor that may detect motion. That is in some embodiments the sleep data collection and processing unit uses motion data and processes motion data by among other things comparing it to known motion patterns for given sleep states in order to determine the hypnagogic information for the particular user. The known sleep motion patterns may be stored in memory and accessed by the sleep data collection and processing unit over the communication bus . Raw data collected from the sensor by the sleep data collection and processing unit may also be stored in memory in some embodiments. Alarm clock settings that are adjusted by the user or by the controller as was discussed above may be stored in memory as settings which may be subsequently accessed by the alarm clock or by the sleep monitor as necessary.

The various embodiments also include non volatile non transitory computer readable memory other than memory that may contain executable instructions or executable code such as C or C for execution by at least one processor that when executed cause the at least one processor to operate in accordance with the functionality and methods of operation herein described. The computer readable memory may be any suitable non volatile non transitory memory such as but not limited to programmable chips such as EEPROMS flash ROM thumb drives compact discs CDs digital video disks DVDs etc. that may be used to load executable instructions or program code to other processing devices such as wearable devices or other devices such as those that may benefit from the features of the herein described embodiments.

Returning briefly to the systems shown in and a user of the respective first device pairs that device with the second device using the wireless link . The first device is a wearable device such as a wristwatch ring anklet etc. and the second device is a mobile device such as but not limited to a mobile phone or a portable alarm clock. The wearable device then collects data related to specific physiological parameters of the user within each of a set of time intervals and processes this data in order to determine the one or more sleep states and transitions between sleep states of the user within each of the time intervals.

As was discussed briefly in the Background the sleep states may be considered as falling into four broad categories a the deep sleep state b the shallow sleep state c the REM Rapid Eye Movement state and d an intermediate state where the user is partially awake yet partially sleep. Any of these states or transitions from one state to another may be used to trigger the snooze alarm as was described above. However scientific research implies that the most optimum wake up experience is realized when a person transitions from the REM state to the awake state.

The alarm clock provides a user defined wake up time and may also allow the user to set the sleep state or sleep state transitions that are used to trigger the wake up alarm or the snooze alarms. The user may also enable a setting that allows the sleep monitor to make adjustments to the alarm clock settings based on the hypnogogic information determined from monitoring one or more sleep cycle intervals.

As understood from and data is processed in order to determine if at any point in time prior to the occurrence of the first snooze alarm event the user is in a given sleep state such as the REM sleep state. If the condition is determined to be valid the first snooze alarm is immediately triggered. This method of operation may be repeated in case the subsequent snooze alarm modes that are not disabled by user intervention or by a timeout setting. The data processing described above may be performed by the wearable device or by the wearable device operating in conjunction with the mobile device. Alternatively as shown in the entire method of operations may be performed by a wearable device. In the various embodiments related to and the alarm clock functions may be distributed between either of the two devices. For example in the alarm clock snooze alarm may be activated by pressing a button or using some other user interface of the first device .

Turning now to one such method of operation is illustrated and begins in block where the alarm clock is activated. As shown in block sensor data is collected at the first data collection rate. The sensor data may be motion data which may be analyzed to determine the user sleep state as shown in block . Settings of the alarm clock may be adjusted according to the sleep state occurring at the set wake time as shown in block . For example if the sleep state determined by the sleep monitor close to the set wake up time for the alarm clock is a given sleep state the sleep monitor may adjust various alarm clock settings such as the volume of the alarm the type of alarm the rate of frequency of alarm pulse the luminosity of a flashing alarm light or any other suitable setting that may be made to the particular device which has the alarm clock functionality.

The sleep monitor may detect whether the alarm clock has entered into a snooze mode as shown in decision block . If not the sleep monitor may determine if the alarm clock is turned off in decision block . For example the user may have responded to the initial wake up alarm by turning it off and by not invoking the snooze mode at all. In that case the sleep monitor determines the user sleep cycle pattern that was observed during the sleep period prior to the alarm and stores this information in memory as hypnagogic information . This operation is shown in block at which point the method of operation ends. However if the alarm clock has not been turned off in decision block then the sleep monitor continues to collect sensor data at the first data collection rate as shown in operation block and the operation loops until an alarm event occurs.

If the alarm clock enters into snooze mode in decision block then the sleep monitor collects sensor data at a second data collection rate as shown in block . The second data collection rate is higher than first data collection rate. In block the sleep monitor controls the alarm clock snooze based on the determined sleep state. For example as was discussed above for a given sleep state the sleep monitor may automatically trigger the snooze alarm rather than waiting for the snooze alarm timer cycle to be completed. The sleep monitor determines the user sleep cycle pattern for the sleep period up until the alarm cycle and stores the sleep cycle pattern as hypnagogic information in memory as shown in block and the method of operation ends.

If the snooze interval terminates as shown in decision block then the snooze alarm is triggered in block . If the user is determined to be awake by the sleep monitor in decision block then the method of operation ends as shown. If the user is not determined to be awake then the sleep monitor looks for alarm acknowledgment in decision block . If the alarm is not acknowledged then the snooze timer may be automatically set once again in block . The snooze operation may continue for a set number of intervals until the snooze operation eventually terminates due to a predetermined allowed number of snooze alarms or until the sleep monitor determines that the user is awake in decision block .

As long as the snooze interval is not terminated in decision block the sleep monitor will check to see if the user is awake as shown in decision block . If the user is determined to be awake in decision block then the sleep monitor will send a control signal to the alarm clock to disabled snooze mode as shown in operation block and the method of operation ends. If the user is not determined to be awake in decision block then the sleep monitor will determine if the user is in the sleep stage for which it is desirable to trigger a wake up alarm as shown in decision block . For example the REM sleep state may be a desirable given sleep state for which to trigger an immediate alarm. Therefore in this example if the user is determined to be in or to have transitioned to a REM sleep state in decision block then the snooze alarm is immediately triggered as shown in block and the method of operation continues as shown until the user is determined to be awake in either decision block or decision block etc.

As can be understood from the flowchart of the snooze alarm may be terminated either by allowing it to operate only for a set number or predetermined number of snooze intervals or may be terminated only when a determination is made that the user is actually awake.

In some embodiments motion data may be used to make the determination of whether the user is awake. The motion data may be obtained by using an accelerometer a gyroscopic position sensor or capacitive touch sensor that is configured to operate as motion detection sensor.

The various embodiments described above provide various advantages over prior systems. One example advantage is that by increasing the rate of data collection and increasing the frequency of sleep state determination events transitions from one sleep state to another sleep state may be more readily determined so that the snooze alarm and other features of the alarm clock may be more accurately controlled according to the particular persons hypnagogic pattern for example as determined by the hypnagogic information stored in memory .

Another advantage of the various embodiments is that by increasing the rate of data collection during the snooze mode of operation in the various embodiments the hypnagogic pattern for a particular user can be more accurately determined and filtered for various noise conditions or conditions related to position of the sensor for various types of wearable devices that may house the sensor. Other advantages provided by the various embodiments herein disclosed will become apparent to those of ordinary skill.

While various embodiments have been illustrated and described it is to be understood that the invention is not so limited. Numerous modifications changes variations substitutions and equivalents will occur to those skilled in the art without departing from the scope of the present invention as defined by the appended claims.

