---

title: Techniques for detecting an intranet spoofing attack
abstract: Techniques for detecting an intranet spoofing attack are disclosed. In one embodiment, the techniques may be realized as a system and method for detecting an intranet spoofing attack. For example, the system may comprise one or more processors communicatively coupled to a network. The one or more processors may be configured to: identify an attempt to access an intranet website at a user device; determine that the intranet website is a spoofed intranet website; and perform an action in response to the determination of the spoofed intranet website to protect user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09578057&OS=09578057&RS=09578057
owner: Symantec Corporation
number: 09578057
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131219
---
The present disclosure relates generally to network security and monitoring and more particularly to techniques for detecting an intranet spoofing attack.

Spoofing attacks are becoming increasingly prevalent in the digital age. There are many types spoofing attacks such as TCP IP spoofing referrer spoofing caller ID spoofing and email address spoofing. In each instance a malicious party or program successfully masquerades as another party or program in order to obtain sensitive or personal information from an unsuspecting user. An intranet website spoofing attack is no different. Enterprise users are accustomed to entering proprietary information or data on intranet websites. In an intranet spoofing attack a malicious party may create a wireless access point nearby a corporate office for example and host spoofed an intranet website. If the wireless access point generates a sufficiently strong signal an enterprise user using his or her corporate computing device may inadvertently access the spoofed intranet website believing the website is the real corporate intranet website. As a result the enterprise user may thereby provide sensitive or personal information to the malicious party or program.

In view of the foregoing it may be understood that there may be significant problems and shortcomings associated with conventional technologies for detecting an intranet spoofing attack.

Techniques for detecting an intranet spoofing attack are disclosed. In one embodiment the techniques may be realized as a system for detecting an intranet spoofing attack. For example the system may comprise one or more processors communicatively coupled to a network. The one or more processors may be configured to identify an attempt to access an intranet website at a user device. The one or more processors may be configured to determine that the intranet website is a spoofed intranet website. The one or more processors may be configured to perform an action in response to the determination of the spoofed intranet website to protect user.

In accordance with other aspects of this embodiment the user device may comprise an enterprise computing device. The user device may also comprise at least one of a desktop computer a laptop computer a tablet computer a smart phone and a web enabled mobile device.

In accordance with further aspects of this embodiment the attempt to access an intranet website by the user may be achieved using a browser agent that monitors user web activity.

In accordance with additional aspects of this embodiment the spoofed intranet website may be hosted by a malicious party to target unsuspecting users to provide proprietary information. For example the proprietary information may comprise at least one of personal information corporate information security information financial data a username a password a personal identification number PIN and a confidential communication.

In accordance with other aspects of this embodiment determining the intranet website is a spoofed intranet website may comprise determining that the user device is operating outside of a known secure network. For example determining that the user device is operating outside of a known secure network may be based on at least one of determining a status of hard wired connection to the known secure network determining a status of a secure connection via hypertext transfer protocol secure HTTPS determining a status of a virtual private network VPN connection comparing a uniform resource locator URL of the intranet website against a list of known uniform resource locator URL intranet websites using a location based service associated with the user device using a sniffer to determine that network activity at the user device is external to the known secure network and performing a secure public key handshake with a known intranet website.

In accordance with further aspects of this embodiment the action may comprise at least one of blocking access to the intranet website logging access to the intranet website notifying a user or an administrator associated with the user device that the intranet website is a spoofed intranet website and redirecting access to another website.

In another embodiment the techniques may be realized as a method for detecting an intranet website spoofing attack. For example the method may comprise identifying an attempt to access an intranet website at a user device. The method may comprise determining that the intranet website is a spoofed intranet website. The method may also comprise performing an action in response to the determination of the spoofed intranet website to protect user.

In another embodiment the techniques may be realized as an article of manufacture for detecting an intranet website spoofing attack. In one embodiment the article of manufacture may comprise at least one processor readable storage medium and instructions stored on the at least one medium. The instructions may be configured to be readable from the at least one medium by at least one processor and thereby cause the at least one processor to operate so as to identify an attempt to access an intranet website at a user device. The instructions may also be configured to be readable from the at least one medium by at least one processor and thereby cause the at least one processor to operate so as to determine that the intranet website is a spoofed intranet website. The instructions may be configured to be readable from the at least one medium by at least one processor and thereby cause the at least one processor to operate so as to perform an action in response to the determination of the spoofed intranet website to protect user.

The present disclosure will now be described in more detail with reference to exemplary embodiments thereof as shown in the accompanying drawings. While the present disclosure is described below with reference to exemplary embodiments it should be understood that the present disclosure is not limited thereto. Those of ordinary skill in the art having access to the teachings herein will recognize additional implementations modifications and embodiments as well as other fields of use which are within the scope of the present disclosure as described herein and with respect to which the present disclosure may be of significant utility.

With reference to computer system of modem network interface or some other method may be used to provide connectivity from one or more of client systems and to network . Client systems and may be able to access information on server A or B using for example a web browser or other client software not shown . Such a client may allow client systems and to access data hosted by server A or B or one of storage devices A N B N and or N .

Networks and may be local area networks LANs wide area networks WANs the Internet cellular networks satellite networks or other networks that permit communication between clients servers and other devices communicatively coupled to networks and . Networks and may further include one or any number of the exemplary types of networks mentioned above operating as a stand alone network or in cooperation with each other. Networks and may utilize one or more protocols of one or more clients or servers to which they are communicatively coupled. Networks and may translate to or from other protocols to one or more protocols of network devices. Although networks and are each depicted as one network it should be appreciated that according to one or more embodiments networks and may each comprise a plurality of interconnected networks.

Storage devices A N B N and or N may be network accessible storage and may be local remote or a combination thereof to server A or B. Storage devices A N B N and or N may utilize a redundant array of inexpensive disks RAID magnetic tape disk a storage area network SAN an internet small computer systems interface iSCSI SAN a Fibre Channel SAN a common Internet File System CIFS network attached storage NAS a network file system NFS optical based storage or other computer accessible storage. Storage devices A N B N and or N may be used for backup or archival purposes.

According to some embodiments clients and may be smartphones PDAs desktop computers a laptop computers servers other computers or other devices coupled via a wireless or wired connection to network . Clients and may receive data from user input a database a file a web service and or an application programming interface.

Servers A and B may be application servers archival platforms backup servers network storage devices media servers email servers document management platforms enterprise search servers or other devices communicatively coupled to network . Servers A and B may utilize one of storage devices A N B N and or N for the storage of application data backup data or other data. Servers A and B may be hosts such as an application server which may process data traveling between clients and and a backup platform a backup process and or storage. According to some embodiments servers A and B may be platforms used for backing up and or archiving data. One or more portions of data may be backed up or archived based on a backup policy and or an archive applied attributes associated with the data source space available for backup space available at the data source or other factors.

According to some embodiments clients and or may contain one or more portions of software for detecting an intranet spoofing attack such as for example spoofing detection module . As illustrated one or more portions of spoofing detection module may reside at a network centric location. For example server A may be a server a firewall a gateway or other network element that may perform one or more actions to provide role based access control using dynamic shared accounts. According to some embodiments network may be an external network e.g. the Internet and server A may be a gateway or firewall between one or more internal components and clients and the external network.

Spoofing detection module may provide among other things a way to detect a spoofing attack. As described above spoofing attacks are becoming increasingly prevalent. In a spoofing attack a malicious party or program successfully masquerades as another party or program in order to obtain sensitive or personal information from an unsuspecting user. In an intranet website spoofing attack a malicious party may create a wireless access point nearby a corporate office for example and host spoofed an intranet website. If the wireless access point generates a sufficiently strong signal an enterprise user using his or her corporate computing device may inadvertently access the spoofed intranet website believing the website is the real corporate intranet website. As a result such an attack may cause the enterprise user to unknowingly provide sensitive or personal information to the malicious party or program via the spoofed intranet website.

Accordingly spoofing detection module may provide a way to detect a spoofing attack or more specifically an intranet website spoofing attack. By identifying an attempt to access an intranet website at a user device determining that the intranet website is a spoofed intranet website using a host of techniques and performing an action in response to the determination of the spoofed intranet website the spoofing detection module may protect a user an enterprise or corporation and transmission of secure and proprietary information to malicious entities or a combination thereof.

Bus allows data communication between central processor and system memory which may include read only memory ROM or flash memory neither shown and random access memory RAM not shown as previously noted. The RAM is may be the main memory into which the operating system and application programs may be loaded. The ROM or flash memory can contain among other code the Basic Input Output system BIOS which controls basic hardware operation such as the interaction with peripheral components. Applications resident with computer system may be stored on and accessed via a computer readable medium such as a hard disk drive e.g. fixed disk an optical drive e.g. optical drive a floppy disk unit or other storage medium. For example spoofing detection module may be resident in system memory .

Storage interface as with the other storage interfaces of computer system can connect to a standard computer readable medium for storage and or retrieval of information such as a fixed disk drive . Fixed disk drive may be a part of computer system or may be separate and accessed through other interface systems. Modem may provide a direct connection to a remote server via a telephone link or to the Internet via an internet service provider ISP . Network interface may provide a direct connection to a remote server via a direct network link to the Internet via a POP point of presence . Network interface may provide such connection using wireless techniques including digital cellular telephone connection Cellular Digital Packet Data CDPD connection digital satellite data connection or the like.

Many other devices or subsystems not shown may be connected in a similar manner e.g. document scanners digital cameras and so on . Conversely all of the devices shown in need not be present to practice the present disclosure. The devices and subsystems can be interconnected in different ways from that shown in . Code to implement the present disclosure may be stored in computer readable storage media such as one or more of system memory fixed disk optical disk or floppy disk . Code to implement the present disclosure may also be received via one or more interfaces and stored in memory. The operating system provided on computer system may be MS DOS MS WINDOWS OS 2 OS X UNIX Linux or another known operating system.

Power manager may monitor a power level of battery . Power manager may provide one or more APIs Application Programming Interfaces to allow determination of a power level of a time window remaining prior to shutdown of computer system a power consumption rate an indicator of whether computer system is on mains e.g. AC Power or battery power and other power related information. According to some embodiments APIs of power manager may be accessible remotely e.g. accessible to a remote backup management module via a network connection . According to some embodiments battery may be an Uninterruptable Power Supply UPS located either local to or remote from computer system . In such embodiments power manager may provide information about a power level of an UPS.

The description below describes network elements computers and or components of a system and method for providing role based access control using dynamic shared accounts that may include one or more modules. As used herein the term module may be understood to refer to computing software firmware hardware and or various combinations thereof. Modules however are not to be interpreted as software which is not implemented on hardware firmware or recorded on a processor readable recordable storage medium i.e. modules are not software per se . It is noted that the modules are exemplary. The modules may be combined integrated separated and or duplicated to support various applications. Also a function described herein as being performed at a particular module may be performed at one or more other modules and or by one or more other devices instead of or in addition to the function performed at the particular module. Further the modules may be implemented across multiple devices and or other components local or remote to one another. Additionally the modules may be moved from one device and added to another device and or may be included in both devices.

User activity monitoring module may monitor user activity at a user device. For example user activity monitoring module may identify an attempt to access an intranet website at a user device. In some embodiments the attempt to access an intranet website by the user may be achieved by using a browser agent that monitors user web activity. In some embodiments the user device may be an enterprise computing device such as a laptop computer a tablet computer a smart phone or other web enabled mobile device.

Analysis module may determine whether the intranet website attempted to be accessed by the user device is a spoofed intranet website. For example analysis module may receive user activity information from user activity monitoring module and determine that the intranet website attempted to be accessed by the user device is a spoofed intranet website hosted by a malicious party to target unsuspecting users to provide proprietary information. For example the proprietary information may include personal information corporate information confidential communications financial data or security information such as usernames passwords personal identification number PIN or other compromising information.

Analysis module may determining that the intranet website is a spoofed intranet website by determining that the user device is operating outside of a known secure network. This may be achieved by a variety of techniques. In some embodiments analysis module may determine a status of hard wired connection to the known secure network. If it is determined that the user device is connected to the network via wireless rather than hard wire connection which is more secure the connection may be with an non secure network and the intranet website may be a spoofed intranet website. Analysis module may also determine a status of a secure connection via hypertext transfer protocol secure HTTPS . If it is determined that the user device is connected to the network via a non HTTPS connection the intranet website may also be deemed a spoofed intranet website. Analysis module may also determining a status of a virtual private network VPN connection. If there is no established VPN connection the network connection may be outside of the known network and the intranet website may therefore be a spoofed intranet website. Analysis module may also perform a secure public key handshake with a known intranet website to determine whether a connection is secure and within a known network.

Analysis module may also compare a uniform resource locator URL of the intranet website against a list of known uniform resource locator URL intranet websites. If the URL of intranet website does not match or correspond to any of the known URLs then the intranet website may be spoofed as well. Analysis module may also coordinate with a location based service associated with the user device to determine connection to a known network. For example a user device may be GPS enabled or have some other location based service. Analysis module may coordinate with the GPS enabled device or location based service to determine a distance of the user device from the known network. If the distance surpasses a predetermined threshold value it may be determined that the user device is not within range of the known network and is therefore operating at an external unknown network. Thus the intranet website attempted to be accessed by the user device in this scenario may be a spoofed intranet website hosted by the external network. Analysis module may also use a sniffer to determine that network activity at the user device is external to the known secure network. This may be achieved in conjunction with or independent of user activity monitoring module .

If it is determined that the intranet website is likely to be a spoofed intranet website action module may perform one or more actions. For example action module may perform block access to the intranet website notifying a user or an administrator associated with the user device that the intranet website is a spoofed intranet website or redirect access to another website.

Error logging and reporting module may produce logs reports or other information associated with detecting an intranet website spoofing attack. For example in some embodiments error logging and reporting module may coordinate with action module to log or report attempted access to the intranet website. This way a user or administrator may monitor frequency of such attacks and take further remedial action.

One benefit with using these techniques to detect potential intranet website spoofing attacks may be to increase network security and to minimize dissemination of proprietary information to malicious parties which may be harmful to users corporations and financial institutions alike.

At block an attempt to access an intranet website at a user device may be identified. In some embodiments as discussed above the user device may comprise an enterprise computing device. In other embodiments the user device may comprise a desktop computer a laptop computer a tablet computer a smart phone a web enabled mobile device or a combination thereof. In some embodiments the attempt to access an intranet website by the user may be achieved using a browser agent or other monitor to monitor user web activity.

At block the intranet website may be determined to be a spoofed intranet website. The spoofed intranet website may be hosted by a malicious party to target unsuspecting users to provide proprietary information including personal information corporate information security information financial data a username a password a personal identification number PIN a confidential communication or other proprietary information.

In some embodiments the intranet website may be determined to be a spoofed intranet website by determining that the user device is operating outside of a known secure network.

In some embodiments a user device may be determined to be operating outside of a known secure network by determining a status of hard wired connection to the known secure network. In some embodiments a user device may be determined to be operating outside of a known secure network by determining a status of a secure connection via hypertext transfer protocol secure HTTPS . In some embodiments a user device may be determined to be operating outside of a known secure network by determining a status of a virtual private network VPN connection. In some embodiments a user device may be determined to be operating outside of a known secure network by comparing a uniform resource locator URL of the intranet website against a list of known uniform resource locator URL intranet websites. In some embodiments a user device may be determined to be operating outside of a known secure network by using a location based service associated with the user device. In some embodiments a user device may be determined to be operating outside of a known secure network by using a sniffer to determine that network activity at the user device is external to the known secure network. In some embodiments a user device may be determined to be operating outside of a known secure network by performing a secure public key handshake with a known intranet website.

At block an action may be performed in response to the determination of the spoofed intranet website. In some embodiments access to the intranet website may be blocked. In some embodiments attempted access to the intranet website may be logged and reported. In some embodiments a user or an administrator associated with the user device may be notified of the spoofed intranet website or potential attack. In some embodiments access may be redirected to another website.

At this point it should be noted that detecting an intranet website spoofing attack in accordance with the present disclosure as described above typically involves the processing of input data and the generation of output data to some extent. This input data processing and output data generation may be implemented in hardware or software. For example specific electronic components may be employed in a spoofing detection module or similar or related circuitry for implementing the functions associated with detecting an intranet website spoofing attack in accordance with the present disclosure as described above. Alternatively one or more processors operating in accordance with instructions may implement the functions associated with detecting an intranet website spoofing attack in accordance with the present disclosure as described above. If such is the case it is within the scope of the present disclosure that such instructions may be stored on one or more processor readable storage media e.g. a magnetic disk or other storage medium or transmitted to one or more processors via one or more signals embodied in one or more carrier waves.

The present disclosure is not to be limited in scope by the specific embodiments described herein. Indeed other various embodiments of and modifications to the present disclosure in addition to those described herein will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art from the foregoing description and accompanying drawings. For example although the embodiments described herein are generally directed to detecting an intranet website spoofing attack the techniques provided herein may be implemented for a variety of other types of spoofing attacks. These may include but not limited to TCP IP spoofing referrer spoofing caller ID spoofing and email address spoofing. Thus such other embodiments and modifications are intended to fall within the scope of the present disclosure.

Further although the present disclosure has been described herein in the context of a particular implementation in a particular environment for a particular purpose those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that its usefulness is not limited thereto and that the present disclosure may be beneficially implemented in any number of environments for any number of purposes. Accordingly the claims set forth below should be construed in view of the full breadth and spirit of the present disclosure as described herein.

