---

title: System and method for simulating real world exercise sessions
abstract: In an exercise system having a remote communication system adapted to communicate with an exercise device, a method for generating an exercise program includes receiving route information identifying a route traveled by an individual during a real world exercise session, receiving audio information identifying a musical selection listened to by the individual during the real world exercise session, using the route information and the audio information to generate an exercise program. The exercise program includes control signals that cause an exercise device to substantially simulate the topographical characteristics of the route traveled by the individual during the real world exercise session, and audio signals representative of the musical selection listened to by the individual during the real world exercise session so that the musical selection is presented during a performance of the exercise program.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09586090&OS=09586090&RS=09586090
owner: ICON Health & Fitness, Inc.
number: 09586090
owner_city: Logan
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130410
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 623 441 filed Apr. 12 2012.

The present invention relates to exercise related systems and methods. More specifically the invention relates to systems and methods for simulating a real world exercise session on an exercise device.

In an attempt to improve their health and physical conditioning consumers are purchasing exercise devices in record quantities. One common challenge with exercise equipment is motivating the purchaser to use the device on a consistent and ongoing basis. This lack of motivation can be a result of the repetitive nature of the exercises and exercise routines that a user can perform on a specific exercise device as well as the versatility of the exercise devices.

In an effort to maintain the motivation necessary for the user of an exercise device to consistently use the exercise device some exercise devices simulate the outdoors by creating exercise programs that reflect the terrain of real world locations. For example U.S. Pat. No. 8 029 415 discloses a system where an individual may identify a street road or path that the individual wants to traverse during the exercise session. An exercise program is created that simulates the terrain of the chosen exercise route. For example an exercise program created for a treadmill may include control signals that increase and decrease tread base inclination levels consistent with the terrain of the chosen exercise route. In addition images of the chosen exercise route may be presented to the user on display screens.

In one embodiment a method for generating an exercise program in an exercise system having a remote communication system adapted to communicate with an exercise device includes receiving route information identifying a route traveled by an individual during a real world exercise session. The method also includes receiving audio information identifying a musical selection listened to by the individual during the real world exercise session. The method further includes using the route information and the audio information to generate an exercise program where the exercise program includes control signals that cause an exercise device to substantially simulate the topographical characteristics of the route traveled by the individual during the real world exercise session and audio signals representative of the musical selection listened to by the individual during the real world exercise session the musical selection being presented during a performance of the exercise program.

In another aspect that may be combined with any of the aspects herein the route information is received from a device that is communicatively connected to the remote communication system the device monitoring the route traveled by the individual.

In another aspect that may be combined with any of the aspects herein the method further includes retrieving data from a third party regarding the route traveled by the individual during the real world exercise session in order to generate the control signals.

In another aspect that may be combined with any of the aspects herein the method further includes retrieving data from a third party regarding the musical selection listened to by the individual during the real world exercise session in order to generate the audio signals.

In another aspect that may be combined with any of the aspects herein the exercise program further comprises display signals that cause the exercise device to display images of the route traveled by the individual during the real world exercise session.

In another aspect that may be combined with any of the aspects herein the method further includes retrieving data from a third party regarding the route traveled by the individual during the real world exercise session in order to generate the display signals.

In another aspect that may be combined with any of the aspects herein the display signals comprise video images.

In another aspect that may be combined with any of the aspects herein the method further includes synchronizing the control signals and the display signals.

In another aspect that may be combined with any of the aspects herein the control signals cause an actuator associated with a treadmill tread base to adjust an inclination of the tread base.

In another aspect that may be combined with any of the aspects herein the control signals also cause an actuator associated with a treadmill tread base to adjust a side to side tilt of the tread base.

In another aspect that may be combined with any of the aspects herein the control signals cause an actuator associated with pedals of an exercise device to adjust a rotational resistance applied to the pedals.

In another aspect that may be combined with any of the aspects herein the control signals cause an actuator associated with an exercise device frame to adjust a tilt of the device frame.

In another aspect that may be combined with any of the aspects herein the method further includes making the exercise program available for download to an exercise device.

In another aspect that may be combined with any of the aspects herein the exercise program is made available for download to the exercise device via the internet.

In another aspect that may be combined with any of the aspects herein the audio information identifying a musical selection comprises a playlist of songs.

In another aspect that may be combined with any of the aspects herein an exercise system may include an exercise device having an audio output device and a movable element that moves during the performance of an exercise.

In another aspect that may be combined with any of the aspects herein the movable element may include at least one selectively adjustable operating parameter.

In another aspect that may be combined with any of the aspects herein the exercise system may include a remote communication system that is in communication with the exercise device. The remote communication system may be receptive to information identifying a real world exercise route traveled by an individual during an exercise session and receptive to auditory information identifying a playlist of songs that the individual listened to during the exercise session.

In another aspect that may be combined with any of the aspects herein the remote communication system retrieves data relating to the real world exercise route and data relating to the playlist of songs that the individual listened to during the exercise session.

In another aspect that may be combined with any of the aspects herein the remote communication system uses the retrieved data to create an exercise program that includes control signals that selectively adjust the at least one selectively adjustable operating parameter of the movable element to simulate terrain characteristics of the real world exercise route display signals that include visual images of the real world exercise route and audio signals representative of the playlist of songs listened to by the individual during the exercise session.

In another aspect that may be combined with any of the aspects herein the audio output device is a speaker.

In another aspect that may be combined with any of the aspects herein the remote communication system communicates with the exercise device via a portable memory device.

In another aspect that may be combined with any of the aspects herein the control signals selectively adjust an inclination level of a treadmill tread base.

In another aspect that may be combined with any of the aspects herein a computer system includes one or more processors system memory and one or more computer storage media having stored thereon computer executable instructions which when executed by the one or more processors cause the computer system to implement a method for presenting analytical data.

Exercise system illustrated in includes exercise devices such as a treadmill an exercise cycle and an elliptical machine . Each of exercise devices are in communication with and may receive exercise programming from a communication system e.g. a website . Communication system may comprise one or more computers and or computer systems. The communication between communication system and exercise devices may be accomplished via a direct connection between communication system and exercise devices or an indirect connection between communication system and exercise devices . For example exercise devices may communicate with communication system via a network . In addition exercise devices may communicate with communication system via personal computers wireless router and or a portable data storage device such as memory card .

Specifically the exercise programming may be initially downloaded to personal computers which may then communicate the exercise programming to one or more of exercise devices . The communication of the exercise programming from personal computers to one or more of exercise devices may be through a wired or wireless connection. Alternatively the exercise programming may be communicated via memory card . For example memory card may receive an exercise program from personal computers and transmit this programming to one or more of exercise devices . In still other embodiments rather than downloading the exercise programming with personal computers and then storing it on memory card the exercise programming may be stored on memory card directly by communication system . Memory card may then be made available to a user of exercise devices . Further still the exercise programming may be delivered to exercise devices over network via wireless router . Exercise programming may be streamed from communication system to exercise devices or downloaded and stored by exercise devices .

The exercise programming received from communication system may simulate actual real world exercise sessions performed by one or more individuals. For example an individual may provide communication system with information regarding a real world exercise session that he or she previously performed. This information provided to communication system may include the route trail or path that the individual traveled as well as an audio selection that the individual listened to during the exercise session or selected. This information may be submitted to communication system via input devices such as buttons on exercise devices personal computers and or another computing device that are in communication with communication system . For example a GPS watch telephone or another portable device may automatically upload information regarding an individual s real world exercise session.

Based upon the information submitted by the individual communication system may create an exercise program that includes control signals display signals and or audio signals that simulate the individual s real world exercise session. For example the control signals may simulate the terrain that the individual encountered during the real world exercise session. The display signals may illustrate images of the terrain and scenery that the individual encountered during the real world exercise session. The audio signals may simulate the sounds that the individual heard during the real world exercise session. These sounds may include sounds of nature or other sounds such as music as would be the case if the individual was listening to a portable music device during the performance of the exercise session. The audio signals may also include other audio selections chosen by the individual such as the individual s exercise song playlist. In one embodiment an exercise session comprises control signals that simulate the terrain that the individual encountered during a real world exercise session and audio signals that include a musical selection listened to by the individual during the exercise session.

In order to create the exercise program communication system may communicate with and gather data from one or more third parties . As described in more detail hereafter these third parties may provide communication system with terrain data image data and or audio data. Once created an exercise program may be delivered to and executed by exercise devices .

As illustrated in exercise devices each include control consoles and . Each of exercise devices also include one or more output devices which are configured to present information to a user. For example control consoles include display screens and respectively. A display screen according to the present invention may include video displays liquid crystal displays LCD light emitting diodes LEDs cathode ray tube CRT displays electroluminescent displays ELD gas plasma displays thin film transistor TFT displays virtual reality VR displays and the like.

Each of exercise devices also includes one or more audio output devices and . An audio output device can be any device that presents or makes available audio signals. For example an audio output device may comprise a speaker a wired audio out port such as an RCA type audio port a wireless audio port or the like. A wireless audio port may use Bluetooth or another wireless technology to present audio signals. For example audio output device on treadmill comprises a speaker. Audio output device on exercise cycle comprises a wired audio out port that may be connected to one or more external speakers such as headphones. Audio output device on elliptical machine comprises a Bluetooth wireless audio out port that may be connected to one or more wireless external speakers such as Bluetooth enabled headphones.

Each of exercise devices further includes one or more input devices and . Input devices enable a user to input information controls and or other commands. For example using one or more input devices a user may vary one or more operating parameters of exercise devices such as time distance speed incline tilt etc. Input devices may also include a start button and or a stop or pause button. It may be appreciated that each of the above recited input devices may be buttons switches rheostats potentiometers touch sensitive controls voice activated controllers and the like.

Input devices may also enable a user to access communication system and or obtain maps topographical information pictures or videos of real world places or other information via network whether such information is from communication system one or more third parties or from one of a variety of other hardware and or software modules that are accessible via network . For example an input device may allow a user to access the Internet to find maps topographical data pictures and or videos of real world locations routes paths courses and the like. Input devices may also enable an individual to provide information regarding a real world exercise session to communication system . For example an individual may use input devices to identify the route he or she traveled whether the individual performed the exercise session on foot or rode a bike the temperature and other weather conditions during the exercise session the audio selection that the individual listened to during the exercise session and the like.

One or more input devices may also function as a selector of connectivity of treadmill exercise cycle and or elliptical machine to communication system and optionally one or more third parties whether such connectivity is direct from treadmill exercise cycle or elliptical machine or via computer or wireless router . In addition an indicator light not shown may demonstrate when a connection has been established between exercise devices and communication system .

As discussed above the connection achieved between exercise devices and communication system may be made in a variety of ways. For example treadmill includes a wireless port that allows wireless communication with communication system either directly or through network via personal computers and or wireless router . Exercise cycle includes a wired port that allows a wired communication with communication system either directly or through network via personal computers . Elliptical machine may communicate with communication system via a memory card . Specifically elliptical machine includes a portable storage device port to which memory card may be inserted. Devices such as personal computers may also include a portable storage device port into which memory card may be inserted. Data files exercise programming and media may be communicated from communication system to personal computers which may store the data files exercising programming and media on memory card . Memory card may then be removed from computer and inserted into portable storage device port on elliptical machine so that the data files exercising programming and media can be provided to elliptical machine

Referring back to exercise devices further include one or more moveable members. A moveable member can be any part of an exercise device that moves during a user s performance of an exercise on an exercise device. The movement of a moveable member may be selectively adjusted by an actuator. An actuator may be any mechanism that selectively adjusts the movement of a moveable member and may include a motor brake or other mechanism.

For example the moveable members on treadmill include a belt and tread base . An actuator e.g. a belt motor may selectively adjust the speed at which belt rotates. In addition to the ability to control and vary the speed of belt treadmill also permits the degree of incline of tread base relative to the floor or other surface upon which tread base rests to be varied. As depicted in solid lines in tread base can be oriented in a neutral or level position. In the neutral or level position tread base is substantially horizontal. Additionally as illustrated in phantom lines in tread base can be oriented in an inclined position such that the front portion of tread base is above the neutral position. Tread base can also be oriented in a declined position in which the front portion of tread base drops below the neutral position.

Treadmill also permits tread base to be tilted from side to side. As depicted in tread base can be tilted such that one side of tread base is higher than the other. For instance illustrates tread base tilted so that one side of tread base specifically side rail is higher than the other side of tread base specifically side rail . illustrates the opposite configuration of tread base where tread base is tilted so that side rail is higher than side rail .

A bracket facilitates the inclination declination and tilting of tread base relative to base frame . As best seen in support member is generally in line with incline mechanism . Tread base also includes a cross member that extends between side rails and . Cross member is generally in line with tilt mechanism . Cross member extends across and over support member such that support member and cross member are generally perpendicular to one another.

Bracket pivotally couples together tread base and base frame such that tread base is allowed to tilt relative to bracket about an axis that is substantially parallel to a longitudinal axis of tread base . Bracket is coupled to base frame in a similar manner as tread base . Specifically support member is pivotally coupled to bracket . Coupling support member to bracket in this manner enables bracket and tread base to pivot relative to base frame about an axis that is substantially perpendicular to a longitudinal axis of tread base . Pivoting of bracket and tread base in this manner allows tread base to be inclined or declined as described herein.

Each of the actuators in treadmill including incline mechanism tilt mechanism and the belt motor may be electrically connected to a treadmill controller. In response to various user inputs or other control signals the treadmill controller may control the operation of incline mechanism tilt mechanism and the belt motor thereby controlling the incline tilt of tread base and the speed of belt . A treadmill controller can be incorporated within any part of treadmill such as in tread base or control console . A treadmill controller can also be incorporated within personal computers .

The ability to change the inclination level and side to side tilt of tread base allows treadmill to more closely simulate outdoor terrain. Typical walks or runs outside for example often involve inclines declines flat surfaces as well as surfaces that are not level from side to side. Each of these terrain types can be accommodated and replicated by tread base . Thus treadmill can more closely simulate typical outdoor terrain.

The moveable members on exercise cycle include a pedal assembly and frame structure . An actuator e.g. braking mechanism may selectively adjust the rotational resistance applied to pedal assembly . Braking mechanism can comprise a friction brake a magnetic brake or any other suitable brake for controlling the rotational resistance applied to pedal assembly . In addition to the ability to control and vary the speed and resistance of pedal assembly exercise cycle also permits frame structure to be positioned in a forwardly tilted and rearwardly tilted orientations.

As depicted in in phantom lines frame structure can be oriented in a neutral position. In the neutral position handle bar assembly and seat are at generally the same vertical height. When frame structure is in the neutral position a user sitting on seat will feel that he or she is sitting on a bicycle that is on a level surface. Additionally as illustrated in solid lines in frame structure can be oriented in a forwardly tilted position such that the handle bar assembly is vertically below the neutral position and seat . Tilting frame structure forward as illustrated in enables a user to simulate riding down a hill. As depicted in frame structure can also be oriented in a rearwardly tilted position in which the handle bar assembly is vertically above the neutral position and seat . Typical bicycle rides outside for example involve inclines and declines as well as flat surfaces each of which can be accommodated and replicated by the tilting ability of frame structure . Thus exercise cycle is able to more closely simulate a typical outdoor bicycle ride.

The forward and rearward tilting of frame structure can be accomplished via a pivot and an actuator e.g. extension mechanism . Frame structure is pivotally coupling to a support base by a pivot as depicted in . Pivot allows frame structure to tilt forward and backward as described above. Pivot can include a pin that extends through a portion of support base and through frame structure . Pivot can also include one or more stops to limit the tilting of frame structure within a desired range.

While pivot allows frame structure to tilt forward and backward extension mechanism controls the tilting of frame structure . In the illustrated embodiment extension mechanism is coupled between support base and frame structure . Extension mechanism raises or lowers frame structure relative to support base thereby determining the tilt of frame structure .

Each of the actuators in exercise cycle including braking mechanism and extension mechanism may be electrically connected to an exercise cycle controller. The exercise cycle controller may control the operation of braking mechanism and extension mechanism and thus the resistance applied to pedal assembly and tilt of frame structure in response to various user inputs or other control signals. The exercise cycle controller can be incorporated within any part of exercise cycle including frame structure or control console . An exercise cycle controller can also be incorporated within personal computers .

The moveable members on elliptical machine include a pedal assembly . An actuator such as a braking mechanism may selectively adjust the rotational resistance applied to pedal assembly . The braking mechanism can comprise a friction brake a magnetic brake or any other suitable brake for controlling the rotational resistance applied to pedal assembly . Each of the actuators in elliptical machine including the braking mechanism may be electrically connected to an elliptical machine controller. The elliptical machine controller may control the operation of the braking mechanism and thus the resistance applied to pedal assembly in response to various user inputs or other control signals. The elliptical machine controller can be incorporated within any part of elliptical machine including control console . An elliptical machine controller can also be incorporated or within personal computers .

Referring again back to a communication connection between exercise devices and communication system can be made in a variety of ways. For example as depicted in treadmill may be capable of wireless communication directly with communication system or through network . A network may comprise one or more data links that enable the transport of electronic data between computer systems and or modules and or other electronic devices. Thus network may be a communication network that enables various hardware and software modules and devices to communicate one with another. Specifically network may be a local area network LAN wide area network WAN wireless network packetized network real time network and the like. Network may facilitate communication between communication system and exercise devices .

Various types of ports or interfaces may be included within exercise devices to enable wireless communication. For instance an exercise device may include one or more ports and interfaces to enable wireless communication through broadcast technology including television broadcast over the airwaves cable or cable modems satellite telephone lines whether analog or digitally based the Internet DSL G Lite wireless technology infrared IR technology other high speed data connections or any other suitable transmission technology or medium. The wireless communication between treadmill and communication system may be bidirectional.

In addition communication with communication system may be through a wired connection. In the illustrated embodiment exercise cycle is shown with a hardwire connection to personal computer which itself has a hardwire connection with network . Alternatively exercise cycle may include a hardwire connection directly to network . The wired communication between exercise cycle and communication system may be bidirectional.

Further communication with communication system may be through a removable data storage device. In the illustrated embodiment elliptical machine includes a memory card port that is configured to accept and read memory card . Memory card may be in the form of any type of portable memory device. Examples of such devices include but are not limited to flash memory cards and USB enabled memory devices. For instance by way of example and not limitation memory card may be a Secure Digital SD card a MultiMedia flash memory card MMC DataFlash device CompactFlash device removable NAND type flash memory e.g. SmartMedia Sony Memory Stick one time programmable memory cards OTP XD cards and the like. Memory card may receive data through personal computers and or directly from communication system . Memory card may then deliver this information to elliptical machine through memory card port .

In addition memory card may be used to transmit data from elliptical machine to communication system . For example elliptical machine may upload data to memory card which may then be uploaded to communication system either directly or through personal computers .

As stated previously communication system may communicate with and gather data from one or more third parties in order to create an exercise program. Generally examples of a third party may include i a live human being or ii a database such as a website computer optical media e.g. compact disk or digital video disk visual media or magnetic media e.g. videotape readable disk an electronic monitoring system dynamic computer readable instructions interactive and or dynamic software programs computer readable instructions one or more other databases other media hardware and or software modules and components. In some embodiments a third party may include MAPQUEST.COM MAP.GOOGLE.COM the GOOGLE EARTH database the GTOPO 30 database the GOOGLE STREET VIEW database the MICROSOFT VIRTUAL EARTH database the WIKIPEDIA database EMUSIC.COM AMAZON.COM the ITUNES database the PANDORA database and the like. These are merely a few examples of third parties that can be accessed to retrieve information and data that can be used to generate the above described exercise programming. It is understood that the exemplary third parties noted herein are not an exclusive or exhaustive list of available third parties . Rather the identified third parties are provided simply by way of example.

One or more of these third parties may store terrain data from one or more real world locations. The phrase terrain data as used herein may include altitude slope inclination levels and or other features of the terrain that may be simulated on an exercise device. In order to be simulated on an exercise device the terrain data may be formatted manipulated or converted into one or more control signals. The phrase control signals as used herein may include an instruction readable by an exercise device that may be implemented by exercise devices to selectively adjust an operating parameter. For example one or more control signals may selectively adjust the inclination level and or tilt of tread base on treadmill the resistance applied pedal assembly and or tilt of frame on exercise cycle and or the resistance applied pedal assembly on elliptical machine . Control signals may further include time distance and the like of an exercise program performed on exercise devices .

One or more of third parties may store image data from one or more real world locations. The phrase image data may include one or more static images and or one or more moving i.e. video images. For example image data as used herein may include a plurality of sequential static images a video display and or a single image of terrain to be traversed by a user such as a mountain race course or street. The phrase display signals as used herein includes image data that if necessary has been formatted manipulated or converted so that it can be displayed on the screen of an exercise device such as display screens . Examples of such display signals include for example video programming sequential static image programming and or a single image of terrain to be traversed.

One or more of these databases may further store audio data. The phrase audio data may include any audio material including natural sounds associated with one or more real world locations dialog narration sound effects and or music. The phrase audio signals as used herein includes audio data that if necessary has been formatted manipulated or converted so that it can be presented through one or more audio output devices such as output devices .

Terrain data image data and audio data may be stored not only by a third party but may also be stored by personal computers exercise devices and or communication system . Regardless of the source of the data personal computers exercise devices and or communication system may use the terrain data image data and audio data to create an exercise program. Personal computers exercise devices and or communication system may format manipulate or convert the terrain data image data and audio data into control signals display signals and or audio signals for an exercise program.

With access to at least some of the data described above personal computers exercise devices and or communication system is able to generate exercise programming that allows exercise devices to simulate real world environments. Specifically the exercise program may include one or more control signals display signals and audio signals that together may simulate a real world exercise session. These signals may be synchronized. For example control signals may be synchronized with display signals and or audio signals so that the implementation of a control signal coincides with the display of a display signal and or presentation of an audio signal. Display signals may be synchronized with control signals and or audio signals so that the display of a display signal coincides with the implementation of a control signal and or presentation of an audio signal. Audio signals may be synchronized with control signals and or display signals so that the presentation of an audio signal coincides with the implementation of a specific control signal and or display of a specific display signal.

Exercise devices personal computers and or communication system may provide a user with access to various different features. For example as shown in communication system may provide a personal training option health information competition simulation feature diagnostics and exercise program generation. In addition to communication system these features may be stored on memory card within memory on exercise devices and or personal computers . Thus while this discussion focuses on downloading or accessing the exercise programs and features directly or indirectly from communication system these programs and features may also be available without requiring access to communication system and or network . Rather these programs and features may be available from a built in memory device on exercise devices a removable memory device such as memory card or personal computers .

When a user selects the Exercise Program Generation option a user may be able to access select create and or download exercise programming for use with an exercise device. As illustrated in for example after selecting the Exercise Program Generation option communication system may first prompt to the user to select the type of exercise device with which the exercise program will be used. illustrates a functional block diagram of the process of selecting an exercise device to be used in connection with the exercise program. As seen in the user may be given the option to select from among many different types of exercise devices including treadmills cycles Nordic type skiers climbers hikers steppers ellipticals and the like.

Regardless of whether a real world exercise session to be simulated was performed on foot jogging or walking for example on a bicycle or another device communication system may create an exercise program that is compatible with all types of exercise devices. After selecting the type of exercise device to be used the user can then select the desired exercise program that is compatible with the selected exercise device.

Referring back to once a user identifies the type of exercise device upon which the exercise program will be used the user may then be prompted to select the type of exercise program desired. For example the user may choose between a User Defined Exercise Program option and an Exercise Session Simulation option. When a user selects a the User Defined Program option communication system may allow a user at exercise devices or personal computers to create or select various aspects of exercise programming that are suitable to the desires of the user. When creating a user defined exercise program the user may have the option to select among other things a desired route images to be displayed and or audio to be presented. The user may also have the option to select other exercise programming parameters such as the exercise time changes in the speed of one or more operating parameters total calories to be burned total distance to be traveled total elevation change themes for the programming and the like.

By way of example after selecting the User Defined Program option the user may be able to select a real world environment which he or she would like simulated by an exercise program. In selecting the real world environment the user may select a starting point and ending point and a specific route between the two. Alternatively the user may select a starting point and an ending point and allow communication system and or one or more of third parties to select the route therebetween. In still other embodiments the user may select a starting point and allow communication system and or one or more of third parties to select a route that proceeds from the starting point for a selected time distance or the like. In yet other embodiments the user may select a predefined route based on one or more characteristics of the route. Such characteristics may include distance elevation change historical significance geographic characteristics wild life or plant life. A user may also select the type of audio programming to be presented.

When a user selects the Exercise Session Simulation option the user can view and select from among one or more available exercise programs. These exercise programs may include real world exercise sessions performed previously by the user or other individuals. For example the Exercise Session Simulation option illustrated in includes an Exercise Session A Exercise Session B and Exercise Session C each of which may simulate real world exercise sessions previously performed by one or more individuals. For example Exercise Sessions A B and C may include control signals display signals and audio signals that are adapted to simulate the real world exercise sessions experienced by the one or more individuals and may be based upon information provided to communication system regarding the real world exercise sessions performed by the one or more individuals.

The control signals may be adapted to simulate the environment of the real world exercise session such as a trail route course path or the like traversed by the one or more individuals during their exercise sessions. For example the control signals can be adapted to selectively adjust one or more operating parameters to simulate the hills level surfaces and the like encountered in these locations. The display signals can be adapted to present visual images representative of what the one or more individuals may have seen during their exercise sessions. For example the display signals can include still or moving images of the road buildings bridges landscape etc. that are seen along the trail route course path or the like traversed by the one or more individuals during their exercise sessions. The display signals may be presented in either 2D or 3D. The audio signals can be adapted to present sounds that the one or more individuals may have heard during their exercise sessions. For example the audio signals can include typical outdoor sounds heard on the trail route course path or the like including cars sirens horns nature sounds and the like. In addition the audio signals may include dialog narration sound effects and or music that that the one or more individuals may have listened to during their exercise sessions. Still further the audio signals may include a song playlist selected by the one or more individuals that previously performed the exercise sessions.

The control signals display signals and audio signals can be synchronized with each other. Synchronizing the control signals and the display signals may allow a user to view the real world environment at the same time the user encounters operating parameters that simulate the viewed real world environment. For example as a user walks or runs on treadmill the control signals may cause treadmill to simulate the terrain i.e. hills etc. that a person would encounter while traversing the chosen route. As the user of treadmill experiences the terrain of the route the user can also view images whether still or moving of the route and its surroundings which the control signals are simulating. Audio signals may be synchronized with control and display signals so that a user that is simulating a real world workout session will hear the same sounds heard by the individual that actually performed the real world exercise session. For example the initiation of a certain song or series of songs may be synchronized with a specific portion of an exercise session such as a steep hill.

For example Exercise Session A may be an exercise program that simulates a bike ride that Lance Armstrong performed on the Pacific Coast Highway. Information including for example the starting point and ending point of the ride and the music that Lance Armstrong listened to during the ride may be uploaded to communication system . Communication system may create an exercise program that simulates everything from the terrain that Lance Armstrong traversed what he saw and what he heard. This exercise program may be implemented on any type of exercise device including treadmills exercise cycles and elliptical machines.

Once the communication system is accessed by an individual in a second step he or she may input information regarding a real world exercise session that he or she previously performed. For example an individual may use user input controls on a personal computer to upload information regarding a real world exercise session performed previously by that individual. In addition details regarding an individual s real world exercise session may be uploaded using a portable device such as a GPS watch telephone or another portable device. Some information may be uploaded automatically while other information may require some manual input. These details may include an identification of the route trail or path traveled the distance traveled the audio selection that the individual listened to during the real world exercise session and the like.

Oftentimes individuals do not listen to natural sounds during an exercise session. Some individuals for example may listen to music through a portable media player while walking running riding or the like. Thus details regarding the audio selection that the individual listened to during the real world exercise session may include a musical playlist of the songs that the individual listened to during the exercise session.

In a third step the communication system may access additional data relating to the information regarding the real world exercise session. Specifically terrain data image data and or audio data may be accessed. This data may be used to generate the exercise program and may be stored at an exercise device a personal computer the communication system and or at one or more other locations such as one or more third parties that are accessible via a network.

Terrain data relating to the route trail or path traveled by the individual may include map and topographical data relating to the route trail or path traveled by the individual. For example the map and topographical data provided by one or more third parties may include a map highlighting the selected route total route distance route directions travel times for specific speeds as well as forward backward and side to side elevation changes along the selected route. Image data may include one or more static images and or one or more moving i.e. video images of the route trail or path traveled by the individual. Audio data may include a digital formatted version of the audio selection listed to by the individual during the real world exercise session. For example audio data provided by the one or more third parties may include .wav files .mpeg 4 files .mp3 files or audio files in another audio file format.

In a fourth step the communication system may convert if necessary and or synchronize one or more of the terrain data image data and audio data into control signals display signals and audio signals to create an exercise program. There are multiple route planning and mapping software applications and programs which can be accessed by the communication system to develop a route for exercise programming as described herein. Examples of such are MAPQUEST.COM MAPS.GOOGLE.COM GOOGLE EARTH available at earth.google.com and the like. Similarly there are multiple databases that store topographical data for specific regions of the world. For example the U.S. Geological Survey maintains a database the GTOPO 30 or Global Topography at 30 arc second database available at edc.usgs.gov includes topographical data for the entire world.

The communication system may use the map and topographical data to generate a series of control signals that control one or more operating parameters of an exercise device. In other words using a correlation algorithm the communication system can synchronize the topographical data with the map data to correlate the distance and the grade or elevation change between a starting and ending point and generate a control signal that will cause an exercise device to simulate that terrain. For instance the communication system can use the map data to determine that the distance between point A and point B is mile and can use the topographical data to determine that the area between points A and B has a grade of 12 . Using this information the communication system can generate one or more control signals that will cause a treadmill for example to incline its tread base to a 12 grade until the user has walked for mile. In a similar manner the communication system can use the map data the topographical data and other reference points along the selected route to generate control signals that control the side to side tilt of the tread base.

In addition to generating the control signals the communication system can also generate display signals to accompany the control signals. As mentioned above the display signals can include still or moving images of the selected real world route which the communication system can retrieve from one or more third parties. For example the Google Street View database may be accessed via the Google Maps API application programming interface to retrieve a series of images from of the selected real world route. When a series of images are used to provide a visual depiction of the selected rout the images can be cached or buffered so that upon delivery to the user of an exercise device the images provide an almost seamless video like depiction of the selected real world route.

As mentioned above the display signals can be synchronized with the control signals. In this manner the control signals will adjust the operating parameters of an exercise device at the same time the display signals depict a change in the terrain of the real world route. For instance at the same time the control signals begin to cause a treadmill s tread base to incline to simulate a hill on the real world route the display signals shows one or more images of the hill on the real world route as if the user were actually beginning to ascend the hill.

Once the control signals have been generated from the topographical map data and the display programming from the retrieved images of the real world route a correlation algorithm can be employed to synchronize the control signals with the display signals. In one embodiment the correlation algorithm uses data about the series of retrieved images such as the number of images along the real world route the real world distances between the images and the like. Similarly the correlation algorithm also uses information from the retrieved topographical map data such as distances between locations on the real world route changes in elevation between locations on the real world route directional changes along the real world route and the like. Using this data the correlation algorithm synchronizes the control signals and the display signals. For example the correlation algorithm may coordinate the first control signal with the display of the first image of the remote real world route. The correlation algorithm may correlate a subsequent image with a change in the map data such as when the map data indicates a change in a certain distance from the previous real world location. The correlation algorithm may also correlate subsequent images with a change in the topographical data such as an elevation change from the previous real world location.

As noted above the exercise program can also include audio signals that may or may not be synchronized with the control signals and the display signals. The audio programming can include sounds that may typically be heard along the real world route such as cars sirens animals people and the like. The audio signals can also include music that the individual listened to during the real world exercise session.

Once created the communication system may make the exercise program available for download by one or more exercise devices in a fifth step . For example a user of an exercise device may access the Exercise Session Simulation module via input devices on a control console. The Exercise Session Simulation module which may be resident on a communication system provides a user interface that allows the user to select the Exercise Simulation Option as shown in .

Once the exercise programming has been delivered to an exercise device via any suitable means such as those described herein the exercise device can run execute the exercise program simulating the real world exercise session by processing the control signals the display signals and or the audio signals. As the exercise device executes the exercise program terrain characteristics of the route trail or path traveled by the individual may be simulated. In particular the control signals of the exercise programming may cause the exercise device to adjust one or more operating parameters such as the incline or tilt of a tread base to replicate the terrain of the route trail or path. In addition display signals and audio signals may replicate what the individual saw and heard during the real world exercise session.

As noted above an exercise device can monitor its actual operating parameters such as the incline and tilt of a tread base and the speed of belt on a treadmill. The actual operating parameters of the exercise device and the exercise program can be correlated so that the control signals display signals and possibly audio signals are updated or changed at the appropriate times. For instance the exercise program may include control signals that incline a tread base to a 5 grade for mile and then decline tread base to a 2 grade for 1 mile. The speed of a belt will affect the amount of time that each of the controls signals is active. If the belt were moving at 5 miles per hour mph for example the user would traverse the mile segment in 3 minute and the 1 mile segment in 12 minutes. If the belt were moving at 2.5 mph however it would take the user 6 minutes to traverse the mile segment and 24 minutes to traverse the 1 mile segment. Thus correlating or synchronizing the actual operating parameters of an exercise device with the exercise program allows the exercise device to be controlled in such a way as to realistically simulate the real world environment. The correlation or synchronization of the exercise programming and the actual operating parameters can be performed by an exercise device controller a personal computer a communication system or a combination thereof.

Embodiments of the present disclosure may comprise or utilize a special purpose or general purpose computer including computer hardware such as for example one or more processors and system memory as discussed in greater detail below. Embodiments within the scope of the present disclosure also include physical and other computer readable media for carrying or storing computer executable instructions and or data structures. Such computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer system. Computer readable media that store computer executable instructions are computer storage media devices . Computer readable media that carry computer executable instructions are transmission media. Thus by way of example and not limitation embodiments can comprise at least two distinctly different kinds of computer readable media computer storage media devices and transmission media.

Computer storage media devices includes RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM solid state drives SSDs e.g. based on RAM flash memory phase change memory PCM other types of memory other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store desired program code means in the form of computer executable instructions or data structures and which can be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer.

When information is transferred or provided over a network or another communications connection either hardwired wireless or a combination of hardwired or wireless to a computer the computer properly views the connection as a transmission medium. Transmissions media can include a network and or data links which can be used to carry desired program code means in the form of computer executable instructions or data structures and which can be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

Further upon reaching various computer system components program code means in the form of computer executable instructions or data structures can be transferred automatically from transmission media to computer storage media devices or vice versa . For example computer executable instructions or data structures received over a network or data link can be buffered in RAM within a network interface module e.g. a NIC and then eventually transferred to computer system RAM and or to less volatile computer storage media devices at a computer system. Thus it should be understood that computer storage media devices can be included in computer system components that also or even primarily utilize transmission media.

Computer executable instructions comprise for example instructions and data which when executed at a processor cause a general purpose computer special purpose computer or special purpose processing device to perform a certain function or group of functions. The computer executable instructions may be for example binaries intermediate format instructions such as assembly language or even source code. Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the described features or acts described above. Rather the described features and acts are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the present disclosure may be practiced in network computing environments with many types of computer system configurations including personal computers desktop computers laptop computers message processors hand held devices multi processor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers mobile telephones PDAs tablets pagers routers switches and the like. The present disclosure may also be practiced in distributed system environments where local and remote computer systems which are linked either by hardwired data links wireless data links or by a combination of hardwired and wireless data links through a network both perform tasks. In a distributed system environment program modules may be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

In general embodiments of the present disclosure relate to exercise systems and methods that enable a user to simulate a real world exercise session previously performed by an individual. The system may include an exercise device with one or more selectively adjustable operating parameters. It should be understood that the invention is not limited to any particular type of exercise device. To the contrary the term exercise device may include any type of exercise machine including but not limited to treadmills exercise cycles Nordic style ski exercise devices rowers steppers hikers climbers and elliptical or striding exercise devices.

For instance a treadmill may have one or more adjustable incline mechanisms for allowing the treadmill to simulate a descent down a hill an ascent up a hill or traversing across a hill. The exercise device may also include one or more display screens that may display images from real world locations. The exercise device may further include an audio out port for presenting an audio selection. For example the exercise device may include a speaker or a port to which headphones for example may be connected.

The system may further include a communication system into which an individual may input information regarding a previous real world exercise session. Any individual may input information regarding a previous real world exercise session. In one embodiment of the present invention famous individuals such as celebrities may input information regarding a real world exercise session.

Information regarding a real world exercise session may be uploaded to the communication system directly or through any device that is able to communicate with the communication system. For example an individual may upload information to the communication system via a personal computer mobile device such as a telephone an exercise device and the like. The uploaded information may include an identification of the road trail or path traveled and the distance traveled. The uploaded information may also include an identification of the audio selection listened to by the individual during the exercise session. The uploaded information may also include other details regarding the exercise session such as but not limited to weather conditions the time during the day or night when the exercise session occurred whether the individual was on foot or rode a bike and the like.

The communication system may use the information uploaded by the individual to create an exercise program that simulates the real world exercise session performed by the individual. For example the communication system may use the identification of the road trail or path traveled to create control signals that cause the exercise device to simulate the terrain traversed by an individual during a real world exercise session in an automatic and or dynamic manner. For example the control signals may simulate the hills and flat areas that the individual traveled during the real world exercise session. The communication system may also use the identification of the road trail or path traveled to create display signals that cause images from the road trail or path traveled to be shown on a display screen. The communication system may further use the identification of the audio selection listened to by the individual during the exercise session to create audio signals that duplicate the audio selection that the individual listened to during the exercise session.

The communication system may access additional data to transform the information uploaded by the individual into an exercise program that includes control signals display signals and audio signals. For example the communication system may access one or more map or topographical databases to construct control signals that realistically simulate the terrain traversed by the individual. The communication system may also access these databases or others to create display signals that include actual images from the road trail or path traveled by the individual. The communication system may further access one or more audio databases to construct audio signals from the information provided by the individual regarding the sounds that he or she heard during the exercise session. The additional data accessed by the communication system may reside within the communication system itself. Alternatively the communication system may access the additional data from one or more third parties.

Once an exercise program is created it may be made available to users of exercise devices. In order to acquire the exercise program the exercise device may communicate with the communication system. As described herein there are many different ways that an exercise device may communication with a communication system. For example an exercise device may communicate directly with the communication system via a wired or wireless connection. Alternatively an exercise device may communicate with the communication system indirectly via a network. Alternatively still an exercise device may communicate with the communication system via a data storage device such as a memory card. With regard to the memory card embodiment a user may access the communication system via a personal computer. The user may download a desired exercise program to the memory card which may be inserted into a port in the personal computer. Once the desired exercise program has be uploaded to the memory card the memory card may be inserted into an appropriately sized port on an exercise device. The exercise device may then upload the exercise program to memory within the exercise device or run the program directly from the memory card.

The communication system may include an interface for assisting a user in choosing a desired exercise program. For example the communication system may present a user with a list of names of individuals whose real world exercise sessions may be simulated. Alternatively the communication system may categorize the exercise sessions based on level of difficulty distance location audio selection or another parameter. The user may then be presented with options based on these parameters and directed to the appropriate category of exercise programs.

