---

title: System and method for combined microwave heating and radiometry for characterizing biological tissues
abstract: Systems and methods are provided for characterizing biological tissues through their thermal signatures that include directing microwave energy into a biological tissue using a first slot antenna, detecting microwave radiation emitted by the biological tissue using a second slot antenna, generating output signals corresponding to the microwave radiation, processing the output signals to characterize a temperature of the biological tissue as a function of time to yield temperature characteristics, and characterizing a biological function of the biological tissue based on the temperature characteristics. The first and second slot antennas can be defined using a dual mode antenna and the generating can include alternatively collecting signals from the second slot antenna through a first low noise amplifier (LNA) and a reference load through a second LNA that the two LNAs are substantially identical.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09250139&OS=09250139&RS=09250139
owner: THE PENN STATE RESEARCH FOUNDATION
number: 09250139
owner_city: University Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130307
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 625 133 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR COMBINED MICROWAVE HEATING AND RADIOMETRY FOR CHARACTERIZING BIOLOGICAL TISSUES and filed Apr. 17 2012 the contents of which are herein incorporated by reference in their entirety.

The present invention relates to and more specifically to apparatus and methods for characterizing biological tissues based on microwave heating and radiometry.

Blood perfusion is an important component of the physiology of normal tissue local transport of oxygen nutrients and pharmaceuticals. Among clinical applications that the knowledge perfusion is necessary are disease diagnostics drug delivery cancer hyperthermia treatment skin perfusion after plastic surgery involving the use of flaps i.e. sections of living skin and underlying muscle that are surgically moved from one area of the body to another and the management of peripheral vascular disease a major cause of amputations .

Embodiments of the invention concern systems and methods for characterizing biological tissues based on microwave heating and radiometry.

In a first embodiment of the invention a system is provided. The system includes a dual mode antenna defining a first slot antenna and a second slot antenna. The system also includes a microwave radiometer coupled to the first slot antenna and a microwave source coupled to the second slot antenna. The system further includes a controller coupled to the microwave radiometer and the microwave source. In the system the controller operates the dual mode antenna in a heating mode via operation of the microwave source and in a temperature measurement mode via operation of the microwave radiometer.

The dual mode antenna can consist of a metallization layer that includes a first slot for defining the first slot antenna and a second slot for defining the second slot antenna. The dual mode antenna can further include substrate layer supporting the metallization layer a superstrate layer disposed on the metallization layer a first feed coupled to the first slot antenna and a second feed coupled to the second slot antenna. Additionally the first slot can extend along a circular path and the second slot can extend along a rectangular path. Also the first slot can be nested with respect to the second slot. The two feeds are in right angle i.e. 90 degrees with respect to the center of the structure. This is important in preventing significant leakage of the strong microwave heating signal to the radiometer input.

In the system the radiometer can include a front module coupled to the first slot antenna and a rear module coupling the front module to the controller. The front module can include a two way switch with an output port a first input port and a second input port. The front module can also include a first low noise amplifier LNA coupled between the first input port and the first slot antenna and a second LNA coupled between the second input port and a reference load. In this configuration the first LNA and the second LNA are substantially identical. Further the two way switch can be controlled by the controller to selectively couple the output port to one of the first input port and the second input port.

The radiometer further can also include an intermediate frequency IF module coupling the front module to the rear module. The IF module can include a synthesizer and a mixer where the mixer receives an output of the front module mixes the output of the front module with an output of the synthesizer to yield a frequency down converted output and forwards the down converted output to the rear module.

The rear module can include a band pass filter or a low pass filter if the IF module is used having an input coupled to the front module and a detector having an input coupled to the output of the filter and an output coupled to the controller.

In a second embodiment of the invention a method is provided. The method includes the steps of directing microwave energy into a biological tissue using a first slot antenna during a first time period and detecting microwave radiation emitted by the biological tissue using a second slot antenna during a second time period subsequent to the first time period. The method also includes the steps of generating output signals corresponding to the microwave thermal black body radiation and processing the output signals to characterize a temperature of the biological tissue as a function of time to yield temperature characteristics.

The method additionally includes the step of characterizing a biological function of the biological tissue based on the temperature characteristics. In one configuration the biological function is a blood perfusion rate.

In the method the steps of directing and detecting can be performed using a dual mode antenna defining the first slot antenna and the second slot antenna. Accordingly the directing includes coupling the first slot antenna of the dual mode antenna to a microwave source during the first time period and the detecting includes coupling a microwave radiometer to the second slot antenna of the dual mode antenna during the second time period.

The dual mode antenna can be selected to include metallization layer having a first slot for defining the first slot antenna and a second slot for defining the second slot antenna. The first slot can be extended along a rectangular path and the second slot can be extended along a circular path. Further the second slot to be nested with respect to the first slot.

In the method the generation of the temperature related voltage i.e. the radiometer output signal can include collecting signal from the second slot antenna through a first low noise amplifier LNA and a reference load through a second LNA to yield the output signal where the first and second LNAs are substantially identical. Further the generation can include mixing the signal at the output of front module with signal from a synthesizer to yield a frequency down converted signal before the detector that generates the output signal of the rear module.

The present invention is described with reference to the attached figures wherein like reference numerals are used throughout the figures to designate similar or equivalent elements. The figures are not drawn to scale and they are provided merely to illustrate the instant invention. Several aspects of the invention are described below with reference to example applications for illustration. It should be understood that numerous specific details relationships and methods are set forth to provide a full understanding of the invention. One having ordinary skill in the relevant art however will readily recognize that the invention can be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods. In other instances well known structures or operations are not shown in detail to avoid obscuring the invention. The present invention is not limited by the illustrated ordering of acts or events as some acts may occur in different orders and or concurrently with other acts or events. Furthermore not all illustrated acts or events are required to implement a methodology in accordance with the present invention.

The various embodiments of the invention provide a new approach to characterizing biological tissues. In particular the various embodiments of the invention provide methods of characterizing biological tissues and devices therefrom that operate by heating the biological tissues of a subject using microwave heating and monitoring the temperature decay using microwave radiometric sensing. As used herein the term biological tissue refers to any tissues of an organism including plants animals or humans. The rate of temperature decay correlates with characteristics of biological tissues. For example the rate of temperature decay correlates with the blood perfusion rate thus allowing the actual blood perfusion rate of the subject to be determined. Such techniques can be applied completely noninvasive and tetherless. Further such techniques allow a measurement of characteristics within the biological tissues of the subject rather than just the perfusion rate associated with the surface of skin. In addition the techniques can be equally used in characterizing non biological subjects with microwave properties similar to those of the biological tissues. For example the techniques can be used in measurement of flow rate of water or other liquids flowing within a non metallic tubing.

As noted above one type of characterization possible by the systems and methods described herein is characterization of blood perfusion rate. Although the various embodiments will be described generally with respect to blood perfusion rate the systems and methods described here can be applied to other types of characterization of biological tissues that correspond with temperature decay characteristics. The remainder of the discussion will be directed at blood perfusion measurements but only for ease of illustration and not by way of limitation. Also the same type of characterization can be equally done from the temperature rise characteristics as well. Non simultaneous microwave heating and microwave monitoring periods is preferred to reduce microwave interference during the monitoring period.

Some basic concepts for utilizing microwave heating for blood perfusion measurement have been described elsewhere where a heating microwave source was suggested for use in order to raise the temperature of the tissue. The present invention builds on this previous work via the combination of such microwave heating and microwave radiometry. That is the present invention provides a dual mode microwave system i.e. combining microwave heating and microwave radiometry to provide a novel solution for completely noninvasive blood perfusion measurement.

One aspect of the various embodiments is the utilization of a novel dual mode antenna system with two separate input ports for heating and radiometry. Another aspect of the various embodiments other is the introduction of two identical low noise amplifiers LNA before a so called Dicke switch that repeatedly switches between the radiometry antenna and a reference temperature load of the system. These two aspects along with the concept of the combined microwave heating and radiometry for blood perfusion evaluation thus provide novel systems and methods for the measurement of blood perfusion and other biological characteristics.

Previous techniques suggested for blood perfusion measurement have been primarily based on direct heating of the tissue surface by a heat source and recording the temperature change by a temperature sensor in contact with the subject such as a thermistor invasively or noninvasively. Ignoring the drawbacks of invasive methods e.g. patient discomfort tissue trauma and local infections such conventional techniques suffer from the large error in the estimation of the perfusion due to an imperfect contact of the temperature sensor to the subject.

In view of the foregoing there is a need for a reliable tissue perfusion measurement system with the following specifications 

An exemplary block diagram for a system in accordance with the various embodiments is illustrated in . As shown in the system includes a dual mode antenna that is placed in contact with the tissues of the subject. The dual mode antenna is coupled to a microwave source through a power amplifier . The dual mode antenna is also coupled to a radiometer . The microwave source radiometer and the power amplifier can be coupled to a controller such as a computer or other data acquisition system to control the overall operation of the system.

In operation the controller controls the microwave source and the power amplifier to deliver via the dual mode antenna microwave radiation for raising tissue temperature by a small amount such as 1 C. or less. The controller then discontinues delivery of the microwave radiation and utilizes the radiometer to measure the rate of decay of temperature. The measured decay of the temperature is then used to obtain the blood perfusion rate. As used herein the term blood perfusion rate refers to the blood volume flow rate in microcirculation capillary network arterioles venules through a given volume of tissue.

An exemplary plot of temperature of tissue as a function of time is illustrated in . As shown in while the microwave radiation is being delivered on the temperature of the tissue can be quickly elevated to a desired temperature. For example temperature can be raised by 1 C. or less as described above. However the various embodiments are not limited in this regard and temperature can be raised by other amounts. Once the delivery of microwave radiation is terminated off the temperature drops in accordance with a function that correlates to the blood perfusion rate.

In the various embodiments the radiometer measurements are performed using a modified Dicke radiometer configuration. In a conventional Dicke radiometer temperature is measured via collection of signals from a source of interest and a reference. These signals are collected by providing a switch for alternating collection between the output of a radiometer antenna and the output of a reference load that is kept at a constant temperature. The difference between the signals can then be used to determine temperature.

In conventional microwave radiometric systems based on a Dicke radiometer since the radiometer essentially measures the thermal radiation i.e. noise emitted by the target tissue the radiometric signal brightness temperature to be measured can be obscured by 1 noise generated inside the system and 2 the gain fluctuation in the system.

To overcome the latter limitation conventional Dicke radiometers are typically configured to utilize a switching at a constant rate of the input to the radiometer system between the antenna and the reference load. As a result the adverse effects of any system fluctuations that both signals equally detect can be reduced or eliminated as the final output after the detection would be proportional to the temperature difference between the antenna and the reference temperature load.

To overcome the former limitation the various embodiments include a modified configuration of the conventional Dicke radiometer. In particular this modified configuration includes two low noise amplifiers LNAs for both antenna and reference temperature input paths. These LNAs are selected to be identical or substantially identical. That is any variation in the characteristics of such LNAs should be 20 or less such as 10 5 or less. In some embodiments the LNAs can be internal and can be integrated as part of the front end electronics. This configuration leads to an increase in the sensitivity of the radiometer and provides a significant advancement over other conventional systems. It has been observed that radiometer detectability quantified by increased probability to correctly detect a deep seated hot object is improved significantly by introducing that external LNA. On the other hand it is known that the minimum temperature resolution of a Dicke radiometer is

A block diagram of an exemplary configuration of a radiometer in accordance with the various embodiments and the principles described above is illustrated with respect to . Such a design can be used to implement and utilize the radiometer in . However the exemplary configuration of is but one possible architecture for a radiometer in accordance with an exemplary embodiment. For example illustrates an alternative configuration having a similar arrangement of components than the components in . Further in the various embodiments a radiometer can include more or less components than illustrated in or B.

As shown in the radiometer can include a switch for switching between signals from an antenna T and signals from the reference load T. As noted above the signals Tand Tare passed through corresponding ones of identical LNAs and before reaching switch . As shown in the output of switch can be passed through a first amplifier . Together the switch the LNAs and and the amplifier can define a front module of the radiometer .

In a single channel configuration of radiometer the output of front module can be provided to a band pass filter to fix the radiometry range for the radiometer . The output of the band pass filter can be amplified via amplifier . This amplified output of the band pass filter can be then detected via a detector . A band pass filter as used herein refers to any type of filter that filters out any range of frequencies from a signal. Thus a band pass filter can encompass not only filters for specific ranges of frequencies but also conventional low pass and high pass filters. Together the band pass filter the amplifier and the detector can define a rear module of the radiometer.

The output signals of the rear module can then be provided to a controller such as a computer or data acquisition system to process the output signals and generate temperature information. The controller can include a demodulator and an integrator for generating temperature information for a display or record . There are also alternative embodiments of the controller possible. For example the demodulator can be moved from the controller to the rear module . The controller can also include a signal generator for concerting operation of the demodulator and the switch in the front module .

In operation the detector converts the filtered and amplified microwave signal to a low frequency voltage having a modulation component corresponding to the signal generator s frequency. This modulation is removed by the demodulator followed by the integrator yielding an output DC voltage proportional to the temperature. To obtain the temperature from this voltage however requires performing a calibration. The calibration procedure is performed using a setup where the temperature of a tissue mimicking liquid in a container is controlled using a temperature regulation mechanism is simultaneously measured by the radiometer and is compared against the output voltage provided by the radiometer. Thereby a calibration curve of voltage versus temperature is obtained and is used in subsequent radiometer measurements of biological tissues temperature.

Although radiometer with the mentioned calibration curve can provide an absolute temperature such an absolute temperature measurement may not be necessary in certain situations. For instance it is likely that for the small temperature changes of 1 C. or less the voltage changes with the temperature linearly and the relative voltage change could be accurately related to a relative temperature change say within 1 5 and so on . In that case from such a relative measurement the perfusion information could be estimated without the need for exact determination of the baseline body temperature usually about 37 C. . Although radiometer has been describe above for use in a single channel mode the radiometer can also be configured with an intermediate frequency IF stage to provide a multichannel configuration. In particular the IF stage can be placed between the front module and the rear module to allow the operating frequency range to be varied. In particular the IF stage can be implemented as a mixer for receiving signals from the front module and mixing this with a signal from a frequency synthesizer to select a portion of the microwave band to operate in. For example the frequency synthesizer can be programmed for 0.9 1.2 1.5 1.8 and 2.1 GHz i.e. a five channel operation. If the filter BPF is designed to pass radiometric signals from 0 to 0.15 GHz each channel would then cover a range of 300 MHz bandwidth e.g. Channel 3 1.35 to 1.65 GHz . Because the penetration depth of microwave signal decreases with increasing the channels frequency a depth related temperature characteristics can be obtained by such a multichannel operation.

As noted above in addition to the novel radiometer configuration the various embodiments also implement a novel dual mode antenna. This antenna consists of a rectangular annular slot for heating at microwave frequencies e.g. at 900 MHz and a circular annular slot for radiometric sensing at microwave frequencies e.g. at 1 2 GHz where the circular annular slot is surrounded by or nested with respect to the rectangular annular slot. As used herein the term annular slot refers to a slot or channel that forms continuous closed loop. This particular nested configuration was derived by the inventor by conducting the analysis through simulation of individual rectangular and circular annular slots where the former is intended for heating at 915 MH and the latter for radiometry about 1.5 GHz.

Rectangular and circular annular slot antennas have been shown to exhibit desirable specific absorption rate SAR i.e. power deposition pattern in the tissue. The suggested feed network for the annular slot may consist of a microstrip feed structure feeding a patch laid out on the backplane and fed at multiple points or relatively long microstrip lines on the backplane to feed the slot. For the blood perfusion evaluation these antennas can be configured as a dual mode structure to offer an attractive solution for combined heating and radiometric sensing.

The main advantage of using such a two input dual mode antenna is avoiding high power low insertion loss duplexers when a single input antenna is used. A simple feeding strategy is incorporated to keep the coupling between the two feeds S low where the two feed points are spatially apart for 90 with respect to one another. They are directly fed by coaxial lines instead of the microstrip lines. Lowering cable attenuation by using a short coaxial cable length is also advantageous when minimal degradation of the antenna noise temperature by the feeding transmission line is desirable for the radiometric sensing. Two small rectangular metallization areas are added on the back of the substrate to accommodate the attachment of coaxial launchers.

One such configuration is illustrated below with respect to B and C. B and C are top bottom and side views respectively of an exemplary dual mode antenna in accordance with the various embodiments. As shown in the dual mode antenna can be implemented as a series of layers. In particular the layers include a substrate layer with a height h a superstrate layer with a thickness d and a metallization slot MS layer formed in between layers and . Additionally the dual mode antenna includes first and second feeds and for connecting to the slot antennas formed in MS layer . The feeds and connect and extend through the substrate layer to allow connection to the rest of the system. In operation the exposed surface of superstrate layer can be placed in proximity to or in contact with the tissue of the subject to provide microwave heating and microwave radiometric sensing via the slot antennas formed in MS layer . The configuration of these slot antennas is described in further detail with respect to .

As shown in the MS layer is arranged to include a rectangular annular slot and a nested circular annular slot dividing MS layer into three regions A B and C.

The first feed is configured to operate in conjunction with the circular annular slot to provide a circular annular slot antenna. Further the first feed is arranged in a coaxial manner. That is the first feed includes an inner conductor portion A that connects to region C and an outer conductor portion B that is connected to region B. The second feed is configured to operate in conjunction with the rectangular annular slot to provide a rectangular annular slot antenna. Further the second feed is also arranged in a coaxial manner. That is the second feed includes an inner conductor portion A that connects to region B and an outer conductor portion B that is connected to region A. The outer conductor portions B and B can be formed via partial metallization of bottom of the substrate .

In operation signals are directed via the second feed to operate the rectangular annular antenna defined by the rectangular annular slot to provide microwave heating of the tissue . Thereafter a radiometer coupled via first feed to the circular annular antenna defined by circular annular slot can be used to collect signals corresponding to the microwave radiation emitted by the tissue as it cools down to track the temperature decay rate of the tissue .

Before the design is laboratory or clinically tested it should be made certain that several issues have been properly addressed 

LNA LNA is a key component for achieving high radiometric sensitivity. In particular low noise improves performance. Accordingly to exploit the best noise figure performance from low noise transistors the circuit can be fabricated on substrate with very low loss tangent. For example aluminum oxide alumina can be used which has a loss tangent in the order of 0.0002.

Packaging Shielding Because of the large gain required to amplify the thermal noise through the system any feedback leakage created through radiation from printed circuit traces imperfect grounding improper RF shielding and insufficient blocking of the RF path to supply voltage could generate random spurious oscillations. Therefore careful design considerations should be incorporated to prevent such undesired effects. For example most of the system gain can be assigned to the IF stage 0 170 MHz at which spurious can be better suppressed. Furthermore proper shielding of the unit by using microwave shielding absorbing material can be provided to diminish external electromagnetic interference EMI .

System Size To reduce the system size analog parts after the front stage synthesizer mixer low pass filter and IF stage can be integrated in one module.

Frequency Channel Selection Operation at different microwave frequency range provides flexibility in terms of the depth of interrogation with tissue and tuning to channels with minimum interferences. For example interference from cell phones signals 850 and 1900 MHz bands and Wi Fi signals 2.4 GHz . Such FCC approved 0.9 and 2.4 GHz industrial scientific medical ISM bands should be examined for achieving the best compromise in terms of penetration depth and antenna size. 2.4 GHz heating may be of particular interest since the heating antenna will be significantly reduced less than L L 2 cm compared to L L 4.2 cm in . Further since the radiometer does not emit any signal there is no regulatory restriction in terms of its frequency range as long as emission from its RF components could be prevented by proper package design. However a system in accordance with the various embodiments can be configured to operate in the range of 1 4 GHz commonly used for medical radiometers to provide flexibility in terms of penetration depth and tissue type. One difficulty could be the achievement of such wide frequency selectivity with one phase locked loop PLL synthesizer. In that case one can use two synthesizers covering different portions of the range 1 2.5 GHz and 2.5 4 GHz and switch between them as needed.

Antenna As further discussed below the radiometer antennas discussed herein primarily are directed to ranges of roughly 1 2 GHz. However the various embodiments are not limited in this regard and the antenna bandwidth can be increased further such as to 1 4 GHz or even wider. For example additional nested slots can be provided or spiral shaped antennas. Furthermore the antenna can be implemented in flexible substrate such as Rogers Liquid Crystalline Polymer LCP ULTRALAM 3000 or a textile antenna. Such antennas can be conformed to the body shape.

Power Amplifier Although the systems described herein were initially implemented using an off the shelf power amplifier PA for microwave heating the various embodiments are not limited in this regard. For example an alternate technique for efficient signal generation is using a class E Colpitts power oscillator topology discussed in Devine Class E Colpitts Oscillator for Low Power Wireless Applications 44 No. 21 pp. 1257 1258 October 2008. The drain efficiency DE of close to 50 at 900 MHz has been demonstrated for this technique. Further other power sources can be used. For example a compact and efficient solution for microwave heating can be to use a high power transistor such as NXP BLF571 LDMOS 20 W rating . With 50 efficiency 10 W RF signal can be generated from such a transistor using 12 V supply at 1.67 A current 20 W DC power . Further advances in lithium ion technology has led to compact rechargeable batteries with several Ah capacity e.g. 12 V 7 Ah capable of supplying loads with over 1 A of current for over one hour. Therefore integration of microwave heating source in a portable system can be achieved. Also because of the lack of PA driver and high efficiency the required heat sink and cooling system will be less bulky than general purpose PAs.

Different strategies can be employed to estimate the perfusion from measurements performed by this system. In one approach a fixed power can be applied to the tissue and the steady state temperature elevation from the tissue background temperature can be recorded step response method . Alternatively the steady state temperature decay response can be also recorded by turning off the microwave heat source after the steady state temperature elevation is reached. The perfusion then can be obtained by the temperature rise or decay waveform and its steady state value. This can be done in a manner similar to the perfusion estimation from a convective perfusion probe technique used in Mudaliar et al A Phantom Tissue System for the Calibration of Perfusion Measurements 130 5 October 2008 the contents of which are herein incorporated by reference in their entirety. In this technique a heat flux gage is used to measure the heat flux response of tissue when convective cooling is applied. The measured and calculated heat flux data are used to determine perfusion by minimizing an objective function containing both measured and experimental data. The calculated data are obtained from a finite difference model based on the well known Pennes bioheat equation.

The calculation starts with an initial guess of the pertinent tissue parameters which are iteratively updated until a desired convergence is reached. The algorithm for convective cooling method estimates both perfusion and thermal contact resistance. Microwave heating adds another aspect to such a parameter estimation method. Maxwell s equation need to be solved to find specific absorption rate SAR that will be applied as the source of heat generation in the Pennes equation Equation 2 modified by incorporating microwave heating SAR .

Equation 2 can be solved in a computing device such as the controller of or an external computing device using finite element or finite difference method while the temperature information is streamed wirelessly to the computing device. Parameters in Equation 2 particularly wand k are iteratively updated till a proper convergence of the objective function is achieved. SAR can be simultaneously modeled by solving Maxwell s equations using a computational electromagnetic model such as finite difference time domain or finite element method. Because computational methods are very resource demanding a more practical approach is to run Equation 2 in advance for various ranges of the parameters and obtain a dataset of cooling or heating curves or models. A similar process can be performed for SAR induced by the heating antenna in different tissue composition to generate a SAR dataset. For instance the user can input patient related data and the site of perfusion measurement e.g. chest or back and a closest SAR model would be looked up from the available library of dataset models that may best describe the SAR for the inputted specifications. Such preexisting library of SAR and temperature rise cool dataset would remove the need for running resource hungry and slow computational algorithms in real time . Such perfusion estimation algorithms could be run real time in the processing unit inside the microwave perfusion device which would display the estimated perfusion. In an alternative method the microwave device can stream data to simple mobile devices such as smartphones where the application for perfusion estimation and display would reside and run.

Besides the step response method a repetitive sequence of ON and OFF state of the power amplifier PA can be employed i.e. pulse method . Depending on the level of power applied the rate of cooling due to perfusion and thermal conductivity the duration of ON and OFF cycles and random drift the steady state condition for high and low temperature baseline levels may or may not be reached at each cycle. If the steady state is reached at each cycle this is essentially similar to the step response method while parameter estimation can be performed on each cycle independently and the estimated parameters can be averaged for a better accuracy. On the other hand if baselines for low and high change from each cycle to the next one they could be regarded as non stationary and slow processes of variation of baselines that could be removed by appropriate signal processing algorithms prior to parameter estimation.

The following non limiting Examples serve to illustrate selected embodiments of the invention. It will be appreciated that variations in proportions and alternatives in elements of the components shown will be apparent to those skilled in the art and are within the scope of embodiments of the invention.

Two concentric annular slot antennas applicators configured as a dual mode structure as described above with respect to were chosen for a preliminary study. The circular slot is for radiometry at the 1 2 GHz range and the rectangular one for heating at the 900 MHz ISM frequency band. For improved matching and avoiding excessive specific absorption rate SAR in tissue they are coated with a 2.5 mm thick layer of silicone rubber. High frequency structure simulator HFSS ANSYS simulation reveals a maximum SAR of about 60 W kg per 1 W antenna input power occurring above the feed point in tissue. Maximum SAR would be three orders of magnitude higher without the coating. A preliminary system prototype is built and consists of SAV 541 PHEMT LNA MiniCircuits switch HMC270 Hittite Amplifier2 BGA 2716 NXP Semiconductors plus ZX60 2534 S MiniCircuits mixer SYM 30DLHW MiniCircuits synthesizer LMX2433 National Semiconductors and Amplifier3 power detector ZX47 60 S MiniCircuits . PC interfacing is through an NI DAQ board PCI 6281 . The configuration of these elements is illustrated by system in .

The radiometric voltage read by the system was compared against a thermistor immersed 1 cm below the antenna facing tissue phantom liquid in a beaker placed on a magnetic stirrer with hotplate to uniformly raise the liquid s temperature. The phantom is composed of 58 distilled water 41 sugar and 1 salt mimicking muscle permittivity. This is very similar to the Agar gel phantom described below with the exception that the Agar is not used such that the phantom remains a liquid. Permittivity measurements performed by the inventor did not reveal significant differences in permittivity with and without 1 Agar material used as the gelling agent. is a plot showing a typical spectrum of amplitude as a function of frequency captured prior to the detector. In particular shows the output signal before detector with the synthesizer set at 1500 MHz and the switch in is fixed at the antenna position. Radiometric signal is seen at about 0 170 MHz bandlimited by the LPF or BPF custom designed LC in or B.

The detected output voltage versus temperature calibration curve is illustrated in . is a plot of output voltage versus temperature with the synthesizer set at 1600 MHz and 2 seconds averaging. The graph shows a sensitivity of the system of 1.5 mV C. The main challenges faced have been spurious oscillations due to high system gain and interferences picked up by system components mainly the reference temperature regulating circuitry. To avoid these adverse effects currently the switching can be disabled and attenuators can be added in the forward pass.

To understand the heating process the power amplifier PA LZY 2 Mini Circuit Brooklyn N.Y. is turned on and off and the temperature is read by the thermistor at about 1 cm depth . To avoid the possibility of damage to the radiometer s low power components till proper protection is in place the radiometer is disconnected and the related antenna port is replaced with a 50 load. shows a plot of temperature readings for 10 W on period for 30 seconds and 3 W on period for 120 seconds on off PA cycles the same on and off periods . Temperature rises of 1.5 C. and 0.4 C. are observed for the two cases respectively.

Such measured temperature values are very sensitive to the depth at which the thermistor is placed. On the other hand radiometric measurement is likely to provide larger temperature fluctuations than measured by this thermistor for similar range of applied microwave power as depths of only few millimeters contribute disproportionally more to the radiometric temperature collected by the antenna. This preliminary study suggested a microwave power range of about 3 5 W at 1 2 minutes for 0.5 1 C. increase in the temperature at a depth of over 1 cm.

In a second set of experiments the inventor tested the dual mode antenna design shown in to evaluate its performance. For these experiments a device consisting of dual mode antenna as shown in was constructed using Rogers 4003 laminate 3.38 tan 0.0027 with height h 1.524 mm 60 mils as the substrate . A silicone rubber 3.7 tan 0.003 Silicone II from GE coating thickness of d 2.5 mm was used as the supersubtrate . The tissue was simulated by covering the device with a semi infinite tissue medium noting the penetration depth in tissue in the order of cm.

The MS layer for the device was formed to define an inner circular 1.5 GHz center frequency radiometry and an outer square 0.9 GHz heating annular slot. In particular the dimensions for the MS layer were selected to be with reference back to d d 52 mm L L 42 mm W 2 mm W 1 mm D 28 mm G 14.5 mm G 12 mm D 5 mm. The feeds and were formed using a partial metallization of the bottom of the substrate layer G G . For each of the feeds and in the device the outer conductor portions B and B were utilized to provide grounding contacts. Inner conductor portions A and B were used to carry signals from and to the device respectively.

A method of design based on the characteristic impedance of the slot was used from which the approximate length of the slot for best impedance match could be identified. First the characteristic impedance Z R jX and propagation constant j were simulated using a finite element simulator. Note that the desired SAR profile would have even symmetry around the plane containing the feed e.g. x z plane for the circular annular slot in . This implies the presence of a magnetic wall open at this plane. For an overall slot length of L the input impedance at the feed point is then Z 2 where Z is the open terminated impedance of the line for length L 2 2 3 

The slot length L for the maximum power transfer to the tissue is then chosen when the input reflection coefficient with respect to 50 is at its minimum slotline width w 1 mm for muscle tissue where L 115 mm and L 168 mm exhibit the lowest reflection coefficient at 1.5 and 0.9 GHz respectively. The slotline reflection coefficient versus frequency for these two lengths is shown in also showing the lowest reflection coefficient at 1.5 and 0.9 GHz. shows an x y plot of reflection coefficient versus slotline length at 1.5 and 0.9 GHz w 1 mm . shows a x y plot of reflection coefficient versus frequency for L 115 mm and L 168 mm w 1 mm .

The above analysis implies the square annular slot with a side length of 42 mm 168 mm 4 for 0.9 GHz heating and the circular one with a diameter of 36.6 mm 115 mm R for L band radiometry 1 to 2 GHz . HFSS simulation of individual annular slot applicators verifies similar resonance frequencies to . The annular slots are directly fed by coaxial lines instead of microstrip lines as used elsewhere. After combining the two in a dual mode configuration and introducing partial metallization in the backplane for coaxial feed attachment further adjustment is necessary for maintaining low reflection coefficient at the desired frequencies namely reduction in the diameter of the circular annular slot and increase in the width of the square one. Final dimensions are detailed above.

A simple feeding strategy is incorporated to keep the coupling between the two feeds S in low where the two feed points are spatially apart for 90 with respect to one another. Silicone superstrate assists in better uniformity of the SAR over the surface of the annular slot. The value of d 2.5 mm is selected as a compromise between having a smaller size heating applicator with low reflection coefficient at 0.9 GHz and avoiding high SAR around the slot and its feed point observed for thinner d. For silicone coating a square opening of 45 45 mmwas cut from a 2.5 mm thick sheet screen . The screen was then placed on the substrate. The silicone was deposited manually and using a blade its thickness was adjusted to that of the screen by gently removing the extra amount of silicone. After curing for 24 hours the screen was removed. Then additional amount of silicone was added to the uncoated area around the board s edge was tapered down to the edge and was left for further curing.

An Agar based phantom was prepared for the measurement. It was chosen because it is non toxic and can be prepared by readily available ingredients. The muscle phantom consisted of a mixture of by weight 57 distilled water 41 sugar 1 NaCl and 1 Agar powder. The mixture was poured in a cubic shape glass container 9.5 9.5 cmcross section 8 cm height and heated to about 85 C. in a microwave oven. The mixture was then stirred and left to cool to the room temperature to form the gel.

The gel complex permittivity was measured at room temperature 23 C. by a 3.5 mm coaxial probe. The probe was made from a 6 inch long semi flexible cable with its open end carefully ground down. The measured phantom dielectric parameters were 55.8 and 1.10 S m at 0.9 GHz and 52.0 and 1.64 S m at 1.5 GHz. The reference liquids used were distilled water methanol and saline N 1 .

HP 8720C vector network analyzer VNA was used for cables and was used for measuring the applicator s S parameters as well as the permittivity as mentioned above. B and C show plots and illustrating S S and S respectively for the two antennas of where ports and are the square and circular annular slots respectively. The antenna is placed against a muscle phantom i.e. Agar gel. A summary of the dual mode performance at frequencies of interest is listed at Table I. Measurements compare well against the simulation results at frequencies of interest i.e. where return loss Sand S of 10 dB or better and Sof about 20 dB at the heating frequency of 0.9 GHz or better may be desirable.

Because of the texture of the phantom which is soft and moist the measured S parameters are not completely identical for repeated measurement runs. The results shown in and Table I are from a sample run. They may vary particularly around the notches in with the amount of pressure exerted to maintain the applicator against the gel. Nonetheless the results compare well to the simulation results at frequencies of interest. In general a return loss Sand S of about 10 dB or better and a Sof about 20 dB at the heating frequency of 0.9 GHz or better are desirable.

To observe the heating profile a temperature sensitive liquid crystal sheet 25 30 C. Edmund Scientific was inserted inside the phantom mixture before the gel is formed. Port was matched and 14 W of power was applied to port for a duration of 70 seconds room and initial gel temperature of 23 C. through a setup consisting of a signal generator Anritsu MG3691B and a power amplifier Minicircuits LZY 2 . show photos and respectively of the heating profile registered on the temperature sensitive film for the y z and x z cross sectional planes respectively. Note that although the Agar gel is not completely transparent the region with temperature rise of 2 C. or more is clearly registered by the sheet and extended to a depth of about 2 2.5 cm 0.75 1 . The deeper penetration appeared for the x z cross section is due to the fact that the gel may have not completely reached the room temperature between the two measurements. A wider heating profile on the feed plane y z plane compared to the one for the x z plane is observed and agrees with the literature for similar slot lengths.

Compared with the dual mode designs described elsewhere where a microstrip network feeds a patch on the backplane and a spiral antenna is used for radiometry the metallization and feed for the structure in is less complex overall. Lowering the feed line loss by using a short coaxial cable length as opposed to longer microstrip lines can be advantageous bearing in mind that minimal degradation of the input noise temperature by the feed line is desirable for radiometric sensing. Although the annular slot s resonance length is usually obtained empirically through simulation a method for the annular length design based on the characteristics of the equivalent slotline was also presented here as pertained to Equation 3 and and .

In addition to testing of the antenna design of a device implementing a radiometer with an operating frequency range of 1 to 2 GHz L band with a bandwidth of 300 MHz was also tested and characterized. The device was configured in a single channel mode as described above. That is the device does not include an intermediate frequency IF stage. The radiometer in the device was tuned to 1.5 GHz center frequency. The radiometer in the device also includes a dual mode antenna as described above for L band radiometry and heating at 900 MHz ISM band. A bandpass filter BPF for a fixed radiometry range of 1.4 1.7 GHz was also used. shows a device implementing the radiometer. The detector output of the device in and other signals are interfaced to a PC through a National Instruments DAQ board PCI 6281 with 16 analog inputs 24 digital input output 2 analog outputs and SCB 68 Shielded I O Connector Block for DAQ devices with 68 Pin connectors. This system comes with a SHC68 68 EPM shielded cable which connects the DAQ and the connector block. The rest of the process and display runs on the LabView software.

Circuit components for fabricating the exemplary device in were obtained from Mini Circuits Inc. www.minicircuits.com Brooklyn N.Y. Hittite Microwave Corporation www.hittite.com Chelmsford Mass. and NXP Semiconductors www.nxp.com Eindhoven The Netherlands . Printed circuit board PCB for circuits and antennas can be fabricated on microwave substrates provided by Rogers Corporation www.rogerscorp.com Rogers Conn. . Front module PCB and antenna were fabricated using a PCB milling machine from LPKF Lasers Electronics www.lpkfusa.com Tualatin Oreg. .

The front module includes the two LNAs a switch and an amplifier after the switch realized as one unit similar to the configuration described above with respect to . Two different LNA designs for front module were tested. A first design utilized custom designed LNAs featuring low noise PHEMT transistors SAV 541 Minicircuits Brooklyn N.Y. . This design for the front module is shown by front module in . A second design based on off the shelf LNA chips MGA62563 Avago Technologies San Jose Calif. is shown by front module in .

In either design amplified input from the antenna T or a reference temperature regulated box T then passes through the Dicke switch HMC270MS8G Hittite Chelmsford Mass. followed by a second amplification stage BGA 2716 NXP Semiconductors San Jose Calif. The first design the SAV 541 version for has lower noise figure but requires further packaging and grounding considerations to prevent undesired spurious oscillations whereas the second design the MGA62563 version of is easier to implement. Both versions work with 5 V supply.

The Dicke switch is derived by a pair of operational amplifiers for generating 0 and 5 V switching signals from standard 0 and 5 V TTL. The MGA62563 version also includes 3 V voltage regulators LP5900 Texas Instruments to provide supply to the LNAs. The output from front module is fed to band pass filter of the rear module. This is followed by feeding the output to an amplifier ZX60 2534M S Minicircuits Brooklyn N.Y. and a power detector ZX47 60 S Minicircuits Brooklyn N.Y. .

With both inputs terminated to 50 at room temperature the output noise taken at the output of the ZX60 2534M S amplifier for the system with the SAV 541 version and the antenna input selected by the switch is shown in . is an x y plot of the output power Pout spectrum prior to the power detector as a function of frequency for the design of with both inputs terminated to 50 to show the output noise at room temperature. A spectrum analyzer resolution bandwidth RBW of 1 MHz was selected. At room temperature the input noise power density is kT k Boltzmann constant T temperature in K or about 174 dBm Hz. With 42 dB gain from Unit 1 6 dB insertion loss from the BPF 39 dB gain from the ZX60 2534M S amplifier and 300 MHz 85 dB Hz system bandwidth the ZX60 2534M S output signal for a noise free system is estimated to be about 14 dBm 39 dBm MHz at around 1.5 GHz. However this calculated spectrum is lower than what is measured in because of the added internal noise due to the system circuitry and the spectrum analyzer.

To investigate the effect of heat cool variation upon PA ON OFF sequence the setup of was implemented. The dual mode antenna of is used for this setup as the antenna . Water is circulated by a temperature regulated bath pump system RTE 8DD Neslab Endocal through a Plexiglas container which is tapered at the two sides for generating uniform flow under the antenna . The flow rate is controllable by valves available in the bath pump system and a flowmeter Dwyer Instruments used for measuring the amount of flow. The antenna is held against the top wall of the container which is about 2 mm thick and has a dielectric constant close to silicone. Therefore the antenna is coated with only a thin layer less than 1 mm silicone superstrate coating such that the overall dielectric thickness over the annular slots including the Plexiglas wall is comparable with what was used in previous studies and A C . For this heating cooling experiment the power amplifier MS PA for a microwave source was connected to the square annular slot input of the antenna while the circular annular slot input of the antenna was terminated to a 50 coaxial termination. The temperature was measured by a thermistor placed about 1 cm below the antenna . A circulator and a dummy load are also used to protect the power amplifier from large reflection from the antenna due to large mismatch occurring if the contact of the antenna with the tissue phantom medium water in this case was momentarily lost. A coupler was also used for monitoring the power at the antenna via a spectrum analyzer .

SAR generated by the heating antennas is influenced by the antenna skin contact in such a way that the antenna s power reflection coefficient known as may be impacted by repositioning of the antenna on the skin. Knowing the PA power the SAR estimation method described above can be used to calibrate for such random changes of the antenna reflection coefficient. Also note that when the temperature is read by the radiometer the radiometric temperature T and the estimated SAR would be average values of their spatial profiles which would be weighted by the receiving antenna s near field power beam W x y z . In other words the radiometric temperature would be the well known relation 

Finally it should be mentioned that perfusion cannot be accurately mimicked by the setup of where water is flowing freely and the movement is directional. For mimicking perfusion setups using a porous phantom such as water flowing through a sponge can be implemented as described elsewhere by Mudaliar et al A Phantom Tissue System for the Calibration of Perfusion Measurements 130 5 October 2008 the contents of which are herein incorporated by reference in their entirety.

While various embodiments of the present invention have been described above it should be understood that they have been presented by way of example only and not limitation. Numerous changes to the disclosed embodiments can be made in accordance with the disclosure herein without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention. Thus the breadth and scope of the present invention should not be limited by any of the above described embodiments. Rather the scope of the invention should be defined in accordance with the following claims and their equivalents.

Although the invention has been illustrated and described with respect to one or more implementations equivalent alterations and modifications will occur to others skilled in the art upon the reading and understanding of this specification and the annexed drawings. In addition while a particular feature of the invention may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several implementations such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the other implementations as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. Furthermore to the extent that the terms including includes having has with or variants thereof are used in either the detailed description and or the claims such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising. 

Unless otherwise defined all terms including technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs. It will be further understood that terms such as those defined in commonly used dictionaries should be interpreted as having a meaning that is consistent with their meaning in the context of the relevant art and will not be interpreted in an idealized or overly formal sense unless expressly so defined herein.

