---

title: Tracking contacts across multiple communications services
abstract: A method for tracking at least recent contacts and favorite contacts across multiple communications services may include collecting, by a processor, information associated with a plurality of contact interactions of a user from each of a set of different communications services utilized by the user. The method may also include storing, by a storage device, the information associated with each of the plurality of contact interactions. The method may additionally include analyzing the information associated with each of the plurality of contact interactions. The method may further include determining at least one of a list of most recent contacts and a list of favorite contacts from analyzing the information associated with each of the plurality of contact interactions.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09338241&OS=09338241&RS=09338241
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 09338241
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130307
---
Aspects of the present invention relate to communications services systems social networks and the like and more particularly to tracking at least recent and favorite contacts across multiple services communications systems or social networks.

There are numerous communications services communications systems communications networks or social networks for communications between users such as email instant messaging IM chat online forums Lotus Notes Sametime IBM Connections Facebook LinkedIn or similar communications systems networks or services. Lotus Notes and Sametime are trademarks of the Lotus Development Corporation in the United States other countries or both. IBM Connections is a trademark of International Business Machines Corporation in the United States other countries or both. Facebook is a trademark of Facebook Inc. in the United States other countries or both. LinkedIn is a trademark of LinkedIn Ltd. in the United States other countries or both. Each of these systems or services typically include an arrangement for storing and maintaining a list of contacts or to permit users to save a list of contacts or addresses that the user expects to contact or communicate with on a recurring basis within the particular system or service. The contacts or list of contacts are proprietary or exclusive to a particular system or service and may be tracked only within the particular communications service or system. A user would typically be required to manually copy contacts from one service or system to another. Contacts for the same person or user may also be different from one service or system to another. Additionally users typically utilize more than one such system or service. Tracking and analyzing contacts across multiple services or systems that may be utilized by a user presents substantial complexities that need to be overcome.

According to an aspect of the present invention a method for tracking at least recent contacts and favorite contacts across multiple communications services may include collecting by a processor information associated with a plurality of contact interactions of a user from each of a set of different communications services utilized by the user. The method may also include storing by a storage device the information associated with each of the plurality of contact interactions. The method may additionally include analyzing the information associated with each of the plurality of contact interactions. The method may further include determining at least one of a list of most recent contacts and a list of favorite contacts from analyzing the information associated with each of the plurality of contact interactions.

According to another aspect of the present invention a system for tracking at least recent contacts and favorite contacts across multiple communications services may include a processor and a module operating on the processor for collecting information associated with a plurality of contact interactions of a user from each of a set of different communications services utilized by the user. The system may also include a storage device for storing the information associated with each of the plurality of contact interactions. The system may additionally include a module for analyzing the information associated with each of the plurality of contact interactions. The system may further include a module for determining at least one of a list of most recent contacts and a list of favorite contacts from analyzing the information associated with each of the plurality of contact interactions.

According to a further aspect of the present invention a computer program product for tracking at least recent contacts and favorite contacts across multiple communications services may include a computer readable storage medium having computer readable program code embodied therewith. The computer readable program code may include computer readable program code configured to collect information associated with a plurality of contact interactions of a user from each of a set of different communications services utilized by the user. The computer readable program code may also include computer readable program code configured to store the information associated with each of the plurality of contact interactions and computer readable program code configured to analyze the information associated with each of the plurality of contact interactions. The computer readable program code may further include computer readable program code configured to determine at least one of a list of most recent contacts and a list of favorite contacts from analyzing the information associated with each of the plurality of contact interactions.

As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art aspects of the present invention may be embodied as a system method or computer program product. Accordingly aspects of the present invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module or system. Furthermore aspects of the present invention may take the form of a computer program product embodied in one or more computer readable medium s having computer readable program code embodied thereon.

Any combination of one or more computer readable medium s may be utilized. The computer readable medium may be a computer readable signal medium or a computer readable storage medium. A computer readable storage medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable storage medium would include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM an optical storage device a magnetic storage device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. In the context of this document a computer readable storage medium may be any tangible medium that can contain or store a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

A computer readable signal medium may include a propagated data signal with computer readable program code embodied therein for example in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. Such a propagated signal may take any of a variety of forms including but not limited to electro magnetic optical or any suitable combination thereof. A computer readable signal medium may be any computer readable medium that is not a computer readable storage medium and that can communicate propagate or transport a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

Program code embodied on a computer readable medium may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to wireless wireline optical fiber cable RF etc. or any suitable combination of the foregoing. Computer program code for carrying out operations for aspects of the present invention may be written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The program code may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

Aspects of the present invention are described below with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable medium that can direct a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable medium produce an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer other programmable apparatus or other devices to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide processes for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

In accordance with an embodiment of the present invention a system for tracking at least recent contacts and favorite contacts may include a mechanism for gathering or collecting information associated with a plurality of contact interactions or usage across multiple communications services a mechanism for analyzing the information or usage and a mechanism for providing the results of the analysis in a manner which is usable. As used herein a communications service may include but is not necessarily limited to communications systems communications networks or social networks for communications between users such as email IM chart online forums Lotus Notes Sametime IBM Connections Facebook LinkedIn or similar communications systems networks or services.

Examples of uses of the results of the analysis of the information associated with the contact interactions or usage may include but is not necessarily limited to providing at least a list of recent contacts and a list of favorite contacts a typeahead feature that completes a sequence of possible alphanumeric characters and presents one or more possible contacts for selection by the user providing a graphical user interface GUI displaying a user s network of contacts or social networks for each communications service or a combined representation of the user s networks or social networks and any other practical applications of the contact lists across the multiple communications services resulting from the analysis of the information. The favorite contact list may be a list of contacts that the user communicates with at least a predetermined number of times over a preset time period. The typeahead feature may also be described as providing high speed search results based off a partial query while the user is typing in a graphical user interface GUI such as an address field of a communications service application.

Examples of mechanisms for gathering information related to contact interactions may include posting information associated with each contact interaction to the system batching multiple contact interactions pull push of contact information from to the system. The system may maintain an database of contact activity across the multiple communications services using either proprietary or standard mechanisms for gathering the information associated with the contact interactions or usage.

The mechanism for analyzing the information leverages this data to compute derived contact lists which may include a list of recently used contacts of the user and a list of most commonly used contacts over time favorite contacts . These lists may be updated either real time or periodically based on new incoming contact interaction information from the collecting mechanism.

The mechanism for providing the results of the analysis may provide the data or contacts lists through either or both a GUI and programmatic interaction such as an application programming interface API . The GUI may provide simple capability such as typeahead against this list similar to that previously described or more advanced capability such as network visualization. The API may be used by other products or communications applications of the user to enhance the contact listing of people associated with these other services or applications. In this respect a more accurate selection list of people or contacts may be provided among the various communications services or applications of the user. The API may also track activity across a user s aggregated list of either recent or favorite contacts or both.

Advantages of the system method and computer program product described herein provide an improvement in the advantages gained by a single system of recent and favorite contacts. Such capabilities in the context of a single service system product may provide a user with a smaller list from which to choose contacts for most interactions as well as being able to better tune capabilities such as activity logs expert location or network analysis across a user s contacts. The collection and analysis across multiple products or communications services may provide a more accurate and consistent list of contacts. This consistency may be of value in that one is more likely to email not only someone who has emailed recently but also someone with whom a user has chatted with recently for example.

There are numerous mechanisms for gathering or collecting the contact interaction information from a source of the contact interaction information. For example the information may be collected per event or contact interaction each interaction or on a batch basis or groups of interactions. The contact interactions may be grouped based on expiration of each prescheduled time period or after a present number of contact interactions occur.

The contact interaction information may also be collected or transmitted to a system that at least one of stores and analyzes the information on a pull versus push arrangement. For example the source of the contact interaction information may invoke a mechanism for sending information to the system for storage and analysis or the system may invoke a mechanism for pulling or requesting the information from the source. The mechanism for collecting the contact interaction information may also be proprietary or standard mechanism for collecting the information. The proprietary mechanism may be exclusive to the communications service or source of the contact interaction information and may not be universally applicable over other services or sources. A standard mechanism may allow easier integration of additional systems or communications services provided by other vendors.

Accordingly in one aspect of the invention collecting the information associated with the plurality of contact interactions may include transmitting the information associated with each of the plurality of contact interactions to a system that at least one of stores and analyzes the information associated with each of the plurality of contact interactions each time one of the plurality of contact interactions occurs.

In accordance with another aspect of the invention collecting the information associated with the plurality of contact interactions may include transmitting the information associated with each of the plurality of contact interactions to the system that at least one of stores and analyzes the information after each of a preset number of the plurality of contact interactions occurs.

In accordance with a further aspect of the invention collecting the information associated with the plurality of contact interactions may include transmitting the information associated with each of the plurality of contact interactions to the system that at least one of stores and analyzes the information after expiration of a prescheduled time period. Collecting the information associated with the plurality of contact interactions may additionally include transmitting the information associated with each of the plurality of contact interactions to the system in response to a preset number of the plurality of contact interactions occurring before expiration of each prescheduled time period.

An exemplary implementation of the method or system may provide both a pull and push mechanism. The pull mechanism may be based on a standard feed format such as Rich Site Summary RSS and the push mechanism may be based on an Extensible Mark up Language XML file. The push and pull mechanism may be done on a scheduled basis. For example a pull function may occur or the system may request or pull any accumulated information associated with contact interactions from the source at prescheduled time intervals for instance every hour or some other practical time interval. A push operation or transmission of information by the source of the contact interaction information may occur in response to a preset number of interactions being available for pushing or transmitting to the system for analysis. The method or system may therefore have a scheduling system and administration mechanism to set up contact sources and schedule pull events. The system may also provide a set of API entry points for example Representational State Transfer REST based Hypertext Transport Protocol HTTP APIs to allow source systems to push their interactions either individually or in bulk to the system or database.

In block the information associated with each contact interaction may be stored on a database. The database may be associated with the source of the contact interactions or the system that analyzes the contact interaction information. The information associated with each of the plurality of contact interactions collected and stored may include at least one of a username or identification of the user and at least one other user or participant associated with the contact interaction. Other information or metadata in addition to the username or identification information may also be collected and stored. Examples of other information that may be collected and stored that may be associated with each of the plurality of contact interactions may include but is not necessarily limited to a time of the contact interaction an initiator of the contact interaction a type of contact interaction identification of other participants in the contact interaction and any other information that may be desirable in tracking and analyzing the contact interactions or usage of the different communications services of the user. The type of contact interaction may be the type of communications service used for the interaction such email instant messaging IM chat forum Facebook LinkedIn etc. or other type communications service. Accordingly the database may include a list of user to user interactions and additional metadata associated with each contact interaction. This information may be stored in a relational database RDB or a non relational database.

A user may have different usernames or identifications on the different services. Accordingly different usernames or IDs of the same person may need to be correlated across the different services. Correlation between the usernames or IDs and a particular user or contact may be determined or requested from a particular user when the user registers with the system. For example the user may need to associate a common identification used across all communications services with a username or ID used with this particular communications service. Examples of a common identification may include but is not necessarily limited to at least one of a last name and a first name an electronic address or electronic ID.

In block the contact interactions information may be analyzed. The analysis may determine at least one of a list of recent contacts and a list of favorite contacts or other relationships between user and other users or contacts of the user across the multiple communications services. The list of recent contacts may include all contact interactions by the user over a preceding defined period of time. The list of favorite contacts may be the most frequent or a number of contact interactions with a particular other user that exceeds a predetermined threshold over a preset time period. Both lists represent a set of users which the target user most frequently interacts with. The list of recent contacts is heavily influenced by time only those interactions in a particular configurable time period perhaps a week for example and less influenced by the number of interactions. The list of favorite contacts may be analyzed over a longer time period for example 6 months and is more heavily influenced by number of interactions. The specific criteria for being on the favorites list may be tuned. For example favorite contacts may a predetermined number of contact interactions over a preset time period for example require 20 interactions over 6 months with at least one interaction in each month or other criteria.

The analysis could be performed at the time the contacts lists are requested. In another embodiment the analysis may be performed and the lists updated periodically. Queries may then be applied to the previously computed results. The periodic updating may be done on a scheduled basis or the analysis may be performed dynamically when the last computed results are older than a threshold time period for example if older than an hour. Accordingly the list of most recent contacts may be re determined after expiration of a preset time period. In further embodiment the analysis may be performed and the lists updated on a continuous basis such as for example each time a communication or contact interaction occurs.

In block the results of the analysis in block may be used or accessed. One example of a use of the results of the analysis may include presenting a possible contact addressee from a partial query while the user is entering the contact in a GUI using a typeahead feature that accesses the recent and favorite contacts lists. Other possible uses may include displaying the recent contacts list in response to a request by the user and displaying the current favorites list in response to a request. A GUI may also be displayed showing a social network or networks of the user based on each of the contacts lists. Examples of GUIs representing different networks or social networks based on the contacts lists are illustrated in . Referring also to may represent an example of a social network of the users recent contacts and may represent an example of a social network of the users favorite contacts. An indication may also be displayed in the favorite contacts network of the number of contact interactions associated with each contact during a preset time period. In the example illustrated in the indication is the number of contact interactions associated with each contact. In another embodiment the number of contact interactions may be represented by a size of the particular symbol corresponding to each contact. Accordingly a contact with more contact interactions would be larger than a contact with fewer contact interactions and the size of the symbol for a particular contact would be based on the number contact interactions relative to other contacts in the network representation .

Referring back to in block either of the contacts lists may be filtered based on a predetermined criterion. For example the list of most recent contacts and the list of favorite contacts may be filtered based on the source of the contact interaction information or based on the communications service that generated the contact interaction information. The contact lists may also be filtered based on a time frame or range of dates that may be entered in a GUI or other mechanism a number of contact interactions greater than a predetermined number entered into the GUI or may be filtered based on any other criteria. A weighting for a particular service or system may also be entered in a GUI for filtering the contact interaction information based on the service.

The computer system may include a processor to control operation of the computer system and a file system memory or similar data storage device. An operating system may be stored on the file system for running or operating on the processor . A communications app or application may be stored on the file system for operation on the processor . The communications app may operate in association with a communications service similar to that described herein such as email IM chat a social network Facebook LinkedIn etc. or other type communications service for which contacts may desirably be tracked similar to that described herein.

In accordance with an embodiment of the present invention the communications app may include a module to collect or gather information associated with contact interactions similar to that described herein. In another embodiment the module to collect contact interactions information may be a separate component from the communications app .

A module to analyze the collected contact interaction information and a module to utilize the results of the analysis of the contact interaction information may also be stored on the file system for operation on the processor to perform the functions and operations described herein. The module to analyze the collected contact interaction information may perform operations similar to those described with respect to block in . Block may be embodied in the module and may generate at least a recent contacts list and a favorites contacts list . The module to utilize the results of the analysis may perform operations similar to those described with respect to block in . Block may be embodied in the module . Other applications software programs or the like may also be stored on the file system for operation on the processor . A web or Internet browser may also be stored on the file system for accessing one or more resources such as a server via the network . The server may host a communications service or system or social network as defined herein. The network may be the Internet intranet or other network.

In accordance with an embodiment the server or processing device may include a module to collect contact interactions information. The module to collect contact interactions information may be the same as the module on computer system . The module to collect contact interactions information on the server may be provided in addition to the module on the computer system . In another embodiment only the module on the server may be provided such as in a cloud computing environment or similar arrangement. The module would then be accessed via the network using the browser of the computer system or computing device . In a further embodiment where both modules and are provided module on the computer system may perform some of the operations described herein and the module on the server may perform other functions in coordination with the module .

In accordance with an embodiment of the present invention a module to analyze the contact interactions information and a module to utilize the results of the analysis may be provided on the server . The analysis module and utilization module may be the same as modules and respectively on the computer device and may perform substantially the same functions. The analysis module on the server may be provided instead of the module on the computer device or both modules may be provided and may operate in coordination with one another to perform the analysis operations and generate the results recent contacts list favorites contacts list etc. described herein.

The computer system may also include a display for presenting user interfaces graphical displays as well as other content as described herein. The computer system may also include a speaker system for presenting any audio content. The computer system may additionally include a microphone for the user to aurally communicate via the computer system or control the computer system via voice commands.

The computer system may further include one or more input devices output devices or combination input output devices collectively I O devices . The I O devices may include a keyboard pointing device such as a mouse or other computer pointing device disk drives and any other devices to permit a user such as user to interface with and control operation of the computer system and network resources such as server . The modules and and other applications may be loaded on the computer system from a computer program product such as computer program product using one of the input devices . The computer program product or a similar computer program product may also be used to load the modules and on the server . The computer program product may be embodied in a form similar that previously described.

The flowcharts and block diagrams in the Figures illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems methods and computer program products according to various embodiments of the present invention. In this regard each block in the flowchart or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems which perform the specified functions or acts or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of embodiments of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

The corresponding structures materials acts and equivalents of all means or step plus function elements in the claims below are intended to include any structure material or act for performing the function in combination with other claimed elements as specifically claimed. The description of the present invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or limited to embodiments of the invention in the form disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of embodiments of the invention. The embodiment was chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of embodiments of the invention and the practical application and to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand embodiments of the invention for various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.

Although specific embodiments have been illustrated and described herein those of ordinary skill in the art appreciate that any arrangement which is calculated to achieve the same purpose may be substituted for the specific embodiments shown and that embodiments of the invention have other applications in other environments. This application is intended to cover any adaptations or variations of the present invention. The following claims are in no way intended to limit the scope of embodiments of the invention to the specific embodiments described herein.

