---

title: Method and apparatus for avoiding license storming during an unplanned regional blackout
abstract: A computer implemented method and apparatus for avoiding license storming during an unplanned regional blackout. The method comprises generating a leaf license for each geographic region of a plurality of geographic regions in a broadcast area, wherein each leaf license includes a first content encryption key for decrypting media content associated with the leaf license, and where each leaf license is bound to a root license for each geographic region in the plurality of geographic regions; and generating, in response to a blackout event, a new leaf license for each geographic region of the plurality of geographic regions that are located outside of a blackout area, wherein each new leaf license includes a second content encryption key different from the first content encryption key for decrypting protected media content, and wherein each new leaf license remains bound to the root license for each geographic region in the plurality of geographic regions.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09419948&OS=09419948&RS=09419948
owner: ADOBE SYSTEMS INCORPORATED
number: 09419948
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131115
---
Embodiments of the present invention generally relate to digital rights management and more particularly to a method and apparatus for avoiding license storming during an unplanned regional blackout.

Broadcasters often deliver media on networks using Hyper Text Transfer Protocol HTTP streaming solutions such as HTTP Dynamic Streaming HDS HTTP live streaming HLS and Dynamic Adaptive streaming for HTTP MPEG DASH to take advantage of HTTP Content Delivery Network CDN capabilities efficient seeking and efficient bit rate shifting so as to enable a rich user experience. To protect their media streams from unauthorized access broadcasters use various available digital rights management DRM solutions such as ADOBE Access that require an encryption key to decrypt protected content. The encryption key is provided to users who meet certain criteria so as to enable decryption of each segment of the protected content being streamed.

One aspect of DRM solutions includes provisions for changing the encryption key in order to enforce a regional blackout. A regional blackout occurs when a part of a live media stream is to be prevented that is barred from broadcast in one or more geographic regions for example for regulatory or governmental reasons. When such a blackout occurs without preparation that is it is unplanned the encryption key is abruptly changed. In response every media player that is currently rendering the protected content must then request the new key from a license server. Only requests from media players that are not in blackout regions are provided with the new encryption key so as to enforce the regional blackout. However this technique is undesirable since it places a heavy request load on the license server for new encryption keys such heavy request load being known as license storming.

Therefore there is a need for a method and apparatus for avoiding license storming during an unplanned regional blackout.

A method for avoiding license storming during an unplanned regional blackout is described. The method generates a leaf license for each geographic region of a plurality of geographic regions in a broadcast area. Each leaf license includes a first content encryption key CEK for decrypting media content associated with the leaf license and is bound to a root license for each geographic region in the plurality of geographic regions. Binding of the leaf license to the root license means that the root license includes a root key that is used to encrypt the CEK. Thus the root key is used to decrypt the CEK which in turn decrypts the protected media content. In response to a blackout event wherein one or more geographic regions of the plurality of geographic regions is located in a blackout area and is to be prevented from viewing the protected media content new leaf licenses are generated for each geographic region outside of the blackout area. Each new leaf license includes a second content encryption key that is different from the first content encryption key for decrypting protected media content. Since the new leaf license is also bound to the root license and the root license is not changed the new leaf license is able to be decrypted by the existing root license thereby avoid license storming.

In another embodiment an apparatus for avoiding license storming during an unplanned regional blackout is described. The apparatus includes a license generator for generating a leaf license for each geographic region of a plurality of geographic regions in a broadcast area where each leaf license includes a first content encryption key CEK for decrypting media content before a blackout event. In addition each leaf license is bound to a root license for each geographic region in the plurality of geographic regions. The root license includes a root key that is used to decrypt the CEK which in turn decrypts the protected media content. In response to a blackout event the license generator generates a new leaf license for each geographic region of the plurality of geographic regions that are located outside of the blackout area wherein each new leaf license includes a second content encryption key that is different from the first content encryption key for decrypting protected media content. Since the new leaf license is also bound to the root license and the root license is not changed the new leaf license is able to be decrypted by the existing root license thereby avoid license storming.

In yet another embodiment a computer readable medium for avoiding license storming during an unplanned regional blackout is described. The computer readable medium comprises a processor for performing instruction of a method. The method generates a leaf license for each geographic region of a plurality of geographic regions in a broadcast area. Each leaf license includes a first content encryption key CEK for decrypting media content associated with the leaf license and is bound to a root license for each geographic region in the plurality of geographic regions. The root license includes a root key that is used to decrypt the CEK which in turn decrypts the protected media content. In response to a blackout event wherein one or more geographic regions of the plurality of geographic regions is located in a blackout area and is to be barred from viewing the protected media content new leaf licenses are generated for each geographic region outside of the blackout area. Each new leaf license includes a second content encryption key that is different from the first content encryption key for decrypting protected media content. Since the new leaf license is also bound to the root license and the root license is not changed the new leaf license is able to be decrypted by the existing root license thereby avoid license storming.

The Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

While the method and apparatus is described herein by way of example for several embodiments and illustrative drawings those skilled in the art will recognize that the method and apparatus for avoiding license storming during an unplanned regional blackout is not limited to the embodiments or drawings described. It should be understood that the drawings and detailed description thereto are not intended to limit embodiments to the particular form disclosed. Rather the intention is to cover all modifications equivalents and alternatives falling within the spirit and scope of the method and apparatus for avoiding license storming during an unplanned regional blackout defined by the appended claims. Any headings used herein are for organizational purposes only and are not meant to limit the scope of the description or the claims. As used herein the word may is used in a permissive sense i.e. meaning having the potential to rather than the mandatory sense i.e. meaning must . Similarly the words include including and includes mean including but not limited to.

Embodiments of the present invention include a method and apparatus for avoiding license storming during a regional blackout. The embodiments secure a content encryption key CEK in a leaf license that is bound to a root license. The leaf license is provided to a media player in a manifest file while the root license is fetched by a media player from a license server. On the media player the root license includes a root key that is used to decrypt the CEK which in turn decrypts the protected content.

A different leaf license and root key is created for each geographic region in a broadcast area. In addition a different manifest file is created for each geographic region and includes region specific digital rights management DRM metadata. When a blackout event occurs the CEK is rotated and the leaf license is regenerated for each region outside of the blackout region s so decryption of media content can continue in each region outside of the blackout region s . The blackout regions are provided a manifest file that includes alternate content that may be viewed during a blackout period.

In non black out regions because the leaf license is still bound to the root license the root license can still decrypt the leaf license such that the protected content may be played without additional requests to a license server. In some embodiments when a user is mobile and plays protected content in a non blackout region but subsequently moves to a blackout region the protected content is blocked.

Advantageously digital rights management technology such as ADOBE Access can protect content during unplanned regional blackouts while avoiding license storming. Because licenses are segregated by region the present invention provides a manifest for alternate content to a blackout region. Also it is virtually impossible for a malicious media player in a blackout region to access the protected content because the media player is not provided a leaf license that includes the new CEK. Although the present invention avoids license storming in the event of an unplanned blackout the method described herein may also be used during planned blackouts.

As used herein a geographic region is a region of a broadcast area such as a region typically defined by time boundaries such as time zones although or other boundaries such as governmental jurisdictions are also contemplated. A blackout is an event that occurs when media content is broadcast in one or more geographic regions of a broadcast area but is to be prevented from being broadcast in one or more other regions of a broadcast area. For example election results may be broadcast in a given region where polling is closed but government regulation requires that such election results broadcast be prevented in regions where polling is not closed thereby avoiding undue influence at the polls by such broadcast.

A content encryption key CEK is an encryption key used to encrypt and decrypt media content. The CEK may be a symmetric key for example AES 128 encryption using a 128 bit key. A leaf license is a license that contains the CEK that is encrypted using a root key. The root key may be a symmetric key. Each leaf license and root key are unique to a given geographic region in a broadcast area. In order to view encrypted media content the root key must be used to decrypt the CEK which in turn decrypts the media content.

Alternate content is any content other than the media content that is to be prevented from being broadcast to a given blackout region. A blackout period is a period of time for which the blackout occurs. For example in the case of election results the blackout period for a given period begins when polling closes in another region and ends when polling closes in the present region.

Various embodiments of a method and apparatus for avoiding license storming during an unplanned regional blackout are described. In the following detailed description numerous specific details are set forth to provide a thorough understanding of claimed subject matter. However it will be understood by those skilled in the art that claimed subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances methods apparatuses or systems that would be known by one of ordinary skill have not been described in detail so as not to obscure claimed subject matter.

Some portions of the detailed description that follow are presented in terms of algorithms or symbolic representations of operations on binary digital signals stored within a memory of a specific apparatus or special purpose computing device or platform. In the context of this particular specification the term specific apparatus or the like includes a general purpose computer once it is programmed to perform particular functions pursuant to instructions from program software. Algorithmic descriptions or symbolic representations are examples of techniques used by those of ordinary skill in the signal processing or related arts to convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. An algorithm is here and is generally considered to be a self consistent sequence of operations or similar signal processing leading to a desired result. In this context operations or processing involve physical manipulation of physical quantities. Typically although not necessarily such quantities may take the form of electrical or magnetic signals capable of being stored transferred combined compared or otherwise manipulated. It has proven convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to such signals as bits data values elements symbols characters terms numbers numerals or the like. It should be understood however that all of these or similar terms are to be associated with appropriate physical quantities and are merely convenient labels. Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the following discussion it is appreciated that throughout this specification discussions utilizing terms such as processing computing calculating determining or the like refer to actions or processes of a specific apparatus such as a special purpose computer or a similar special purpose electronic computing device. In the context of this specification therefore a special purpose computer or a similar special purpose electronic computing device is capable of manipulating or transforming signals typically represented as physical electronic or magnetic quantities within memories registers or other information storage devices transmission devices or display devices of the special purpose computer or similar special purpose electronic computing device.

The content packaging server is a computing device such as a desktop computer laptop tablet computer and the like such as ADOBE Media Server or ADOBE Primetime packager. The content packaging server includes a Central Processing Unit CPU support circuits and a memory . The CPU may include one or more commercially available microprocessors or microcontrollers that facilitate data processing and storage. The various support circuits facilitate the operation of the CPU and include one or more clock circuits power supplies cache input output circuits and the like. The memory includes at least one of Read Only Memory ROM Random Access Memory RAM disk drive storage optical storage removable storage and or the like.

The memory includes an operating system a license generator a content packager an encryption module DRM metadata manifest files file of geographic regions media content a plurality of leaf licenses and in the event of a blackout event a plurality of new leaf licenses and a plurality of root keys . Each leaf license includes a content encryption key CEK . Each new leaf license includes a new CEK . The operating system may include various commercially known operating systems. The DRM metadata includes a leaf license and a universal resource locator URL for the license server . The file of geographic regions includes key value pairs that include region identifiers and an associated root license for the region.

Before the media content is sent to a client device a content encryption key CEK is used to encrypt the media content . The CEK is encrypted inside of the leaf license using the root key . As such the root key is needed to later decrypt the CEK that decrypts the encrypted media content . The leaf license and root key are unique to a specific geographic region such that when a blackout event occurs in one or more geographic regions new leaf licenses may be generated and sent to the non blackout regions leaving the blackout regions without the new leaf license needed to decrypt the media content . The encrypted leaf license is included in the DRM metadata . The manifest file includes a universal resource locator URL that identifies the location of where to retrieve media content . There is a unique DRM metadata and manifest file for each geographic region.

The content distributing server is a computing device such as a desktop computer laptop tablet computer and the like owned by a multichannel video programming distributor site such as COMCAST NETFLIX and the like. The content distributing server is a repository for packaged content received from the content packaging server . The packaged content includes protected content DRM metadata and a manifest file . As described previously there is different DRM metadata and manifest file for each geographic region.

The license server is a computing device such as a desktop computer laptop tablet computer and the like such as ADOBE Access License Server. The license server includes a Central Processing Unit CPU support circuits and a memory . The CPU may include one or more commercially available microprocessors or microcontrollers that facilitate data processing and storage. The various support circuits facilitate the operation of the CPU and include one or more clock circuits power supplies cache input output circuits and the like. The memory includes at least one of Read Only Memory ROM Random Access Memory RAM disk drive storage optical storage removable storage and or the like. The memory includes an operating system root license generator a verification module a client database and root licenses one root license for each geographic region of a broadcast area. The operating system may include various commercially known operating systems.

The client device is any computing device capable of receiving and playing streaming media content such as a media player a browser and the like. The client device includes a Central Processing Unit CPU support circuits and a memory . The CPU may include one or more commercially available microprocessors or microcontrollers that facilitate data processing and storage. The various support circuits facilitate the operation of the CPU and include one or more clock circuits power supplies cache input output circuits and the like. The memory includes at least one of Read Only Memory ROM Random Access Memory RAM disk drive storage optical storage removable storage and or the like.

The memory includes an operating system and a media player . The operating system may include various commercially known operating systems. The media player includes a DRM manager a media renderer a root license and a cached manifest URL . The root license includes a root key not shown that is used to decrypt the CEK in the leaf license. The CEK is used to decrypt the protected content received from the content distributing server .

The network includes a communication system that connects computers or devices by wire cable fiber optic and or wireless link facilitated by various types of well known network elements such as hubs switches routers and the like. The network may be a part of the Intranet using various communications infrastructure such as Ethernet Wi Fi a personal area network PAN a wireless PAN Bluetooth Near field communication and the like.

A broadcast area is divided into pre defined geographic regions. The root license generator on the license server generates a root license for each geographic region of a broadcast area. For example the broadcast area may be divided into ten regions. In such case the root license generator generates ten root licenses . The generated root licenses include root keys that are accessed by the content packaging server for use in encrypting the CEK within the leaf licenses . The root licenses are also later requested by the DRM manager on the client device for use in decrypting the CEK .

The encryption module encrypts the media content using a content encryption key CEK . The license generator generates a leaf license for each geographic region in the broadcast area. The CEK is encrypted inside the leaf license using the root key for the geographic region that is associated with the leaf root license pair for that region. The manifest file includes a universal resource locator URL that identifies the location of the protected media content on the content distributing server . When a user of the client device logs into a multichannel video programming distributor website to request content the region identifier of the media player is returned along with a general manifest file that identifies a main URL for the content. The main URL is the same for all regions. The media player sends a request to the content distributing server at the main URL and provides the region identifier with a request. The content distributing server returns the manifest file specific to the geographic region identified by the region identifier provided by the media player .

The media player then fetches the protected content and DRM metadata using the actual manifest for its region. If this is the first time that the media player is playing the protected content the media player extracts the location of the license server from the DRM metadata and requests from the license server a root license that is associated with the geographic region of the media player .

In response to the request the verification module on the license server accesses the client database to ensure that the media player is entitled to the root license . The root license generator provides a root license that is individualized for the media player . A root license includes a root key not shown that exists for each geographic region in a broadcast area but the root license generator individualizes the root license for the media player by uniquely encrypting the root license for a given media player .

The media player caches the root license received from the license server and uses that root license as required for decrypting segments of streamed protected content . The root license contains the same root key that was used to encrypt CEK where the encrypted CEK is contained in the leaf license generated by the license generator on the content packaging server . Binding of the leaf license to the root license means that the root license is used to encrypt the CEK within the leaf license . Thus when a blackout event occurs although a new leaf license that includes a new CEK is generated for DRM of the blackout event the new leaf license is still bound to the root license and thus able to be decrypted thereby. As such a subsequent request by media player to the license server for a new root license is not needed.

The DRM manager uses the root key from the root license to decrypt the CEK from the leaf license decrypts the protected content and passes it to the media renderer for rendering.

When a blackout event occurs the license generator rotates the CEK for the geographic regions that are outside of the blackout region. For example if there are ten 10 geographic regions and two of the regions are blackout regions the license generator creates a new CEK . The encryption module encrypts the media content using the new CEK . The content packager generates new DRM metadata and manifest files for each geographic region. The geographic regions that are outside of the blackout area receive the DRM metadata with the new leaf license and a manifest file that includes a URL for accessing the protected content . The geographic regions that are inside of the blackout area i.e. blackout regions are provided DRM metadata that does not include the new leaf license and a manifest file that includes a URL for accessing alternate content that may be viewed during a blackout period. The content packager packages the encrypted media content DRM metadata and manifest files . The content packager then publishes the packaged content at the content distributing server .

When a media player is not located in a blackout region the media player continues to receive the protected content . The DRM manager uses the root license to decrypt the new leaf license received in the DRM metadata that is received from the content distributing server . Because the new leaf license is still bound to the root license meaning the root license was used to encrypt the new leaf license no new root license is required to decrypt the new leaf license access the new CEK and decrypt the protected content . The media renderer therefore seamlessly continues to render the media content being streamed.

When a media player is located within a blackout region the media player accesses the manifest URL which includes a URL of alternate content for which a license is not required. The media renderer renders the alternate content for the duration of the blackout period.

In the case where the media player is a malicious player that accesses the protected content from the content distributing server the malicious player is unable to decrypt the protected content because their DRM metadata does not contain the new leaf license . As such the media player is unable to gain access to the new CEK and cannot decrypt the protected content .

At step the method packages and publishes protected content as described in further detail with respect to below. The method proceeds to step where the method receives a signal that a blackout event has occurred. The blackout event may be signaled in stream via a message from a media encoder to the content packager. The blackout event may be received out of band for example via java JMX API or through HTTP REST interface and the like.

The method proceeds to step where the method in response to the blackout event rotates content encryption key CEK and encrypts the content with the newly generated CEK. The content is encrypted with a CEK. The method then uses the new CEK to encrypt the content for the geographic regions outside of the blackout area. The method encrypts the new CEK differently for each geographic region. The method encrypts the new CEK using a region specific root key.

The method proceeds to step where the method generates new leaf licenses digital rights management DRM metadata and manifest files for each geographic region in the broadcast area. Each leaf license includes the new CEK. The method encrypts the new CEK using the root key for the associated geographic region. The method then updates the DRM metadata files for regions outside of the blackout area with the new leaf licenses. The method updates the DRM metadata files for regions inside of blackout areas without a leaf license. The method also updates the manifest files with the URL for the location of the content. For geographic regions outside of the blackout area the URL provides the location of the encrypted content. For geographic regions within the blackout area the URL provides a location of alternate content that may be viewed by the media player within the blackout area for the duration of the blackout period.

The method proceeds to step where the method publishes the encrypted content DRM metadata and manifest files on a content distributing server. When a media player requests content the request includes the media player s region identifier. The media player receives the content appropriate for the geographic region where the media player is located whether the region is in a blackout area or not. When a blackout event occurs and the CEK is changed a media player need not request a new license because the new leaf license that includes the CEK is still bound to the root license that is cached on the media player thereby avoiding license storming. The method proceeds to step and ends.

At step the method encrypts media content. The method encrypts the media content with a content encryption key CEK . The CEK is used to encrypt the media content and upon receipt at a media player the media content must be decrypted using the same CEK. The method using license chaining to secure the CEK as described in further detail below.

The method proceeds to step where the method generates leaf licenses one for each geographic region in the broadcast area. The method encrypts the CEK inside of the leaf license using the root key for the geographic region. The method proceeds to step where the method generates DRM metadata and a manifest file for each geographic region in the broadcast area. The DRM metadata includes the leaf license and a URL of a license server from where a media player can request a root license. The manifest file includes a URL for where to access the encrypted content for the region where the media player resides.

The method proceeds to step where the method packages and publishes the encrypted content DRM metadata and manifest files for all of the geographic regions of the broadcast area. The method packages the encrypted content DRM metadata and manifest file for each region and publishes it to a content distributing server where it may be requested by a media player. The method proceeds to step and ends.

In an alternate embodiment a media player can determine when it is mobile and has moved into a blackout region. The media player is able to periodically obtain its current physical geographical location from a network service provider or device platform Application Programming Interfaces APIs . The physical geographical location may be based on any measurement units for example longitude and latitude network cell id IP address and the like. The license server exposes a service API that is used to determine the current region ID and its boundaries based on the current physical geographical location. When a media player is mobile for example when a viewer of the content is on a train or bus and travels into a different geographic region the media player recognizes when it moves into a different region.

When mobile media playback is initiated as describe above i.e. a media player uses a main manifest URL and region ID to generate a region specific manifest URL and fetches the manifest file. The media player extracts the DRM metadata from the manifest file and provides the metadata along with the region ID to the DRM Platform to acquire the root license. 

The DRM platform reconfirms the region ID by providing the license server with the current location and receiving the region ID along with associated physical geographical boundary in response. The DRM platform matches the region ID provided by the media player with the region ID provided by the license server. If the region IDs match the DRM platform sends a request to the license server to acquire a root license. The licenser server validates the mapping of the region ID and a root license ID present in the leaf license of the DRM metadata . If the region ID and root license ID match the license server responds with a valid root license. The DRM platform uses the root license to derive the CEK from the leaf license to enable playback of the media content.

The DRM platform monitors the region boundary such that it can determine if crossing a region boundary results in entry to a blackout region. In some embodiments the DRM platform continuously polls its current location through the API exposed by the device platform or network service provide and determines if it is contained within the current region boundary received from the license server. In some embodiments the DRM platform registers itself to a call back service by providing the current region boundary of the device platform. The DRM platform receives notification when the device crosses a region boundary.

When a region boundary is crossed the DRM platform provides the current location to the license server and receives its new region ID in response. The DRM platform sends notification to the media player that the client device has moved to a new region. The DRM platform may send a notification that the current license will expire within a pre determined grace period for example 1 or 2 minutes.

The media player within the grace period fetches the manifest file associated with the new region ID and extracts the DRM metadata from the manifest file. The media player provides the DRM metadata to the DRM platform along with the region ID at which time the DRM platform reconfirms if it is not already cached for the current physical region boundary the region ID with the license server as described above.

Again the DRM platform matches the region ID provided by the player with the one received from the license server. If there is a match playback of the media content continues. However if after expiry of the grace period a valid root license is not received i.e. the media player has moved into a blackout region playback of the media content stops. As such even though a user may initially be located in a non blackout region if the user moves to a blackout region the protected content is blocked.

The embodiments of the present invention may be embodied as methods apparatus electronic devices and or computer program products. Accordingly the embodiments of the present invention may be embodied in hardware and or in software including firmware resident software micro code etc. which may be generally referred to herein as a circuit or module . Furthermore the present invention may take the form of a computer program product on a computer usable or computer readable storage medium having computer usable or computer readable program code embodied in the medium for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system. In the context of this document a computer usable or computer readable medium may be any medium that can contain store communicate propagate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device. These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer usable or computer readable memory that may direct a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer usable or computer readable memory produce an article of manufacture including instructions that implement the function specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer usable or computer readable medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus device or propagation medium. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable medium include the following hard disks optical storage devices a transmission media such as those supporting the Internet or an intranet magnetic storage devices an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber and a compact disc read only memory CD ROM .

Computer program code for carrying out operations of the present invention may be written in an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk or C and the like. However the computer program code for carrying out operations of the present invention may also be written in conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language and or any other lower level assembler languages. It will be further appreciated that the functionality of any or all of the program modules may also be implemented using discrete hardware components one or more Application Specific Integrated Circuits ASICs or programmed Digital Signal Processors or microcontrollers.

The foregoing description for purpose of explanation has been described with reference to specific embodiments. However the illustrative discussions above are not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in view of the above teachings. The embodiments were chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the present disclosure and its practical applications to thereby enable others skilled in the art to best utilize the invention and various embodiments with various modifications as may be suited to the particular use contemplated.

The methods described herein may be implemented in software hardware or a combination thereof in different embodiments. In addition the order of methods may be changed and various elements may be added reordered combined omitted modified etc. All examples described herein are presented in a non limiting manner. Various modifications and changes may be made as would be obvious to a person skilled in the art having benefit of this disclosure. Realizations in accordance with embodiments have been described in the context of particular embodiments. These embodiments are meant to be illustrative and not limiting. Many variations modifications additions and improvements are possible. Accordingly plural instances may be provided for components described herein as a single instance. Boundaries between various components operations and data stores are somewhat arbitrary and particular operations are illustrated in the context of specific illustrative configurations. Other allocations of functionality are envisioned and may fall within the scope of claims that follow. Finally structures and functionality presented as discrete components in the example configurations may be implemented as a combined structure or component. These and other variations modifications additions and improvements may fall within the scope of embodiments as defined in the claims that follow.

While the foregoing is directed to embodiments of the present invention other and further embodiments of the invention may be devised without departing from the basic scope thereof and the scope thereof is determined by the claims that follow.

