---

title: Hearing aid systems
abstract: Systems, structures, and methods are provided to fit, program, or upgrade a hearing aid system to a patient. One embodiment includes the use of a mobile device to interact with the hearing aid system through a short-range network. The mobile device is also adapted to communicate with a server through a long-range wireless network. The server may reside on the Internet.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09357317&OS=09357317&RS=09357317
owner: Starkey Laboratories, Inc.
number: 09357317
owner_city: Eden Prairie
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130729
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 212 406 filed Aug. 26 2005 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 492 913 filed Jan. 20 2000 both of which are incorprated herein by reference in their entirety.

The present invention relates generally to hearing aid systems. More particularly it pertains to fitting programming or upgrading hearing aid systems.

Sound systems can be broken down into three general components an input device such as a microphone a processing system such as a digital signal processor and an output device such as a speaker . Sounds are picked up by the microphone transmitted to the processing system where they are processed and then projected by the speaker so that the sounds can be heard at an appropriate distance.

The described sound systems may include a hearing aid device. The hearing aid device serves a patient by picking up desired sounds processing them and projecting them into the ear of the patient to facilitate communications. The processing system of the hearing aid device is adjusted to fit a specific patient.

Adjustment of hearing aid devices to fit a patient is laborious and time intensive. An audiologist who is engaged in the fitting of hearing aid devices must during a session with a patient have on hand not only hearing aid devices from different manufacturers but also equipment to adjust the different hearing aid devices. The equipment includes proprietary programming hardware and software interface hardware and connector cables from these different manufacturers. The process of reconnecting different interface hardware and connector cables renders the fitting experience frustrating for both the audiologist and the patient.

What has also been frustrating is that there is a lack of a reliable method to ensure that the software on the hearing aid devices or the programming hardware is current. An updated version of software may have been released but this updated software often does not get installed. This may be due to miscommunications forward incompatibility between older equipment and newer software procrastination or perhaps it is because the audiologist was not trained to maintain a complicated software system. This problem prevents a patient from benefiting from newer software.

Thus what is needed are systems methods and structures to fit program or upgrade hearing aid systems.

The above mentioned problems with hearing aid systems as well as other problems are addressed by the present invention and will be understood by reading and studying the following specification. Systems methods and structures are described which address the problems of programming hearing aid systems.

One illustrative embodiment includes a method. The method includes programming a hearing aid system using at least one wireless communication protocol.

Another illustrative embodiment includes a method for tailoring an audiological therapy for a patient. The method includes deriving at least one audiological parameter by obtaining data about at least one aural response of the patient and programming a hearing aid system based on the at least one audiological parameter by a mobile device so as to tailor an audiological therapy for the patient.

Another illustrative embodiment includes a business method. The business method includes deriving at least one audiological parameter by obtaining data about at least one aural response of a patient upgrading a piece of software capable of executing on the hearing aid system based on the at least one audiological parameter wherein upgrading includes downloading the software by a mobile device. The business method further comprises charging for upgrading the software in the hearing aid system.

Another illustrative embodiment includes a system. The system comprises a hearing aid system and a mobile device adapted to program the hearing aid system. The system further comprises a server adapted to communicate with the mobile device. The system further comprises at least one network to facilitate communications at least among the hearing aid system the mobile device and the server.

These and other embodiments aspects advantages and features of the present invention will be set forth in part in the description which follows and in part will become apparent to those skilled in the art by reference to the following description of the invention and drawings or by practice of the invention.

In the following detailed description of the invention reference is made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and in which are shown by way of illustration specific embodiments in which the invention may be practiced. In the drawings like numerals describe substantially similar components throughout the several views. These embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the invention. Other embodiments may be utilized and structural logical and electrical changes may be made without departing from the scope of the present invention.

The embodiments described herein focus on among other things programming hearing aid systems. One component of a hearing aid system includes a processing system. The processing system provides audio signal processing. The audio signal processing includes audiological parameters that may be adjusted so as to enhance the sense of hearing for a patient. This adjustment of the audiological parameters is a tailoring of an audiological therapy for a specific patient.

In tailoring the patient is tested to obtain aural responses to various conditions. These responses are then used to determine which audiological parameters to adjust as well as the ranges of audiological parameter values that may be adjusted. Different brands of hearing aid may have different audiological parameters. This process of adjustment may be considered a programming of the hearing aid system.

Such programming of the hearing aid system may be accomplished using wireless information technology. Information technology has grown at an unprecedented rate as a result of the synergistic marriage of communication networks and the computer. Milestones in the development of these communication networks have included the wired telephone networks radio television cable cellular networks and communication satellites. Computers have made dramatic progress from being hulking machines with human operators to today s postage stamp size integrated circuits. The merging of the communication networks and the computer has replaced the model of forcing workers to bring their work to the machine with a model of allowing anyone to access information on any computers at diverse locations and times.

The programming of hearing aid systems can leverage from that synergy of communication networks and the computer. One consequence of the execution of the described embodiments is that a professional can focus on his her main task providing the best audiological therapy to a patient through a hearing aid system and not focus on managing a complicated software or programming system. The term professional means the inclusion of anyone such as an audiologist who is capable and qualified for providing professional services related to providing audiological therapy. This is possible because the embodiments provide the appropriate software and information at the instant they are needed by the professional. In yet other embodiments diagnostics and adjustment can be made without the immediate presence of a professional. In one embodiment such diagnostics and adjustment is initiated by a patient. Because of the ability of the patient to initiate remote communication with either a professional or to the central server that comprises an expert system trained in providing audiological therapy the patient can benefit from diagnostics and adjustments to the hearing aid system even without the presence of a professional. In another embodiment the diagnostics and adjustment is initiated by the remote server. The following embodiments discuss that and other concepts.

In another embodiment the hearing aid system comprises a hearing aid device and a programming module . The programming module is communicatively coupled to the hearing aid device . The term communicatively coupled means the inclusion of wireless coupling or wired coupling. In one embodiment the hearing aid device and the programming module are each capable of digital audio compression and decompression. In another embodiment the programming module is capable of sending a test signal to the hearing aid device so as to test for at least one aural response of the patient. In another embodiment the programming module includes a headset. In another embodiment the programming module is adapted to provide Bluetooth wireless connectivity signal processing and power for programming of the hearing aid device . In one embodiment the programming module is adapted to be worn around the patient s neck or integrated into a headset or eyeglass fixture.

The hearing aid system can communicate bi directionally via a short range network . In one embodiment the short range network is a pico cellular network. In another embodiment the short range network includes a network occupying an un licensed frequency band. In one embodiment the short range network includes wired networking. In another embodiment the short range network includes a wireless short range network such as a radio transmission network or an optical transmission network. One implementation of the radio transmission network includes Bluetooth technology. Bluetooth technology provides a short range low cost radio communication link. Bluetooth may be used to replace wired cables that connect peripherals to this sample of equipment cellular phones audio headsets computer laptops personal digital assistants digital cameras etc. Another implementation of the radio transmission network includes HomeRF DECT PHS or Wireless LAN WLAN or other equivalent proprietary wireless communications protocols that do not depart from the present invention.

An optical transmission network provides short range wireless connectivity for line of sight applications. This type of network includes the Infrared Data Associate IrDA protocol.

The hearing aid system can communicate with a device facilitated by the short range network . In various embodiments the device includes a mobile device or a terminal. The term Amobile device means the inclusion of a digital cellular telephone a personal digital assistant a personal communication and information device. Furthermore the term Amobile device means the inclusion of a handheld device. The term Aterminal means the inclusion of a data terminal. The term Apersonal digital assistant means the inclusion of a portable personal computing device. The term Apersonal communication and information device means the inclusion of a device capable of mobile communication as well as being capable of functioning as a personal digital assistant. In one embodiment the device can provide instructions to the hearing aid device so as to tailor the audiological therapy program existing software or upgrade to new software. In another embodiment the device can provide instructions to the programming module so as to tailor the audiological therapy program existing software or upgrade to new software. In another embodiment the device is adapted to store and execute a browser. The term browser means the inclusion of a software environment that is adapted to receive and execute distributed applications such as applets. The device is adapted to use data service protocol such as General Packet Radio Service GPRS High Speed Circuit Switched Data Service HSCSD Enhanced Data Rate for GSM Evolution EDGE Integrated Services Digital Network ISDN Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS or Cellular Digital Packet Data CDPD . In one embodiment the data service protocol can be a wireless data service protocol.

The device can communicate bi directionally via a long range wireless network . In one embodiment the long range wireless network includes cellular network. In another embodiment the long range wireless network includes a paging network. In another embodiment the long range wireless network includes a multimedia communications network. In another embodiment the long range wireless network includes wireless technologies such as Global System for Mobile Communications GSM Code Division Multiple Access One cdmaOne Time Division Multiple Access TDMA PDC Japan Digital Cellular JDC Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS Code Division Multiple Access 2000 cdma2000 and Digital Enhanced Cordless Telephony DECT .

A gateway is communicatively coupled to the long range wireless network . The term gateway is understood to mean the inclusion of a device that connects networks using different communications protocols so that information can be passed from one network to the other without incompatibility.

The gateway connects Internet to the long range wireless network . In one embodiment the term Internet means the inclusion of a worldwide collection of networks and gateways that use the TCP IP suite of protocols to communicate with one another. In another embodiment the term Internet means the inclusion of Internet2.

A server is coupled to the Internet . In one embodiment the server is adapted to communicate with the device through the Internet and the long range wireless network . In one embodiment the device is adapted to synchronize data with the server such as the personal digital assistant. In another embodiment the device is adapted to receive an upgraded audiological software from the server . In one embodiment the server includes a database that includes patient data and audiological data associated with at least one type of hearing aid system. The server stores a number of distributed applications such as Java applications. The term Java application means the inclusion of a Java applet. The term distributed application means the inclusion of an object that can be distributed through mechanisms such as Java based distribution techniques Common Object Request Broker Architecture CORBA or Component Object Model COM . These distributed applications are adapted to interact with the hearing aid system .

In one embodiment these distributed applications such as a Java applet are adapted to move from the server to the device to execute on the device . In another embodiment once a distributed application is executed on the device the device may interact with the hearing aid system through the user interface provided by the distributed application. In yet another embodiment the distributed application when moved to the device would dynamically plug into existing software that includes a user interface already on the mobile device.

When such distributed applications are executing on the device the distributed applications are adapted to receive additional information from the server . Such distributed applications are also adapted to send information to the server from the device .

In another embodiment the server receives from the device a patient identification. Based on this patient identification the server accesses the patient s medical history and the information regarding the hearing device system being worn by the patient. Next the server calculates a best fit procedure to obtain programmable audiological parameters for the hearing aid system. These programmable audiological parameters are communicated to the mobile device so as to allow a programming of the hearing aid system.

One of the various benefits of the heretofore described embodiments include allowing the professional to access the most relevant software and information to aid him her in his her task of providing the best audiological therapy through a hearing aid system for a patient. This is possible because the embodiments allow storage of the software and information on a central server. The professional can thus access the information anywhere he needs to be to provide professional services needed by the patient. Another benefits of the heretofore described embodiments include the upgrading of software in the processing component not shown of the hearing aid system .

The process includes upgrading software capable of executing on the hearing aid system. The upgrading of the software depends at least on the audiological parameter or audiological parameters that were derived in block . In one embodiment such audiological parameters serve as an index into a database containing the appropriate software that can be used to upgrade existing software executing on the hearing aid system. In one embodiment the database resides on a server. In one embodiment the software stores in the database is adapted to be distributable. Such software is adapted to be downloadable to a mobile device that is communicatively coupled to the server. At least one network is engaged to facilitate the communication between the mobile device and the hearing aid system and the server.

The process includes charging at block for upgrading the software in the hearing aid system. Such charging includes identifying the patient identifying the patient s health care insurance identifying the type of hearing device worn by the patient and identifying the type of therapy needed by the patient. The charging may be accomplished using a billable account or through a credit card transaction.

The structure is adapted to be uploaded from a mobile device to a server through at least one network. In one embodiment the structure is adapted for tailoring an audiological therapy for the patient.

For illustrative purposes only suppose a patient is being fitted with the hearing aid system . During the fitting process a piece of software may be executed on the mobile device to interact with the patient wearing the hearing aid system . Such interaction includes sending audio test signals from the software executing on the mobile device to the hearing aid system . Such software includes a user interface. The aural response from the patient is either automatically sent back to the testing software by the hearing aid system or is recorded manually into the testing software through the mobile device . Once sufficient aural responses are collected in one embodiment such aural responses are sent to a programming fitting server through the cellular mobile network and the Internet in another embodiment such aural responses are formatted to form an audiogram before sending the information to the programming fitting server . The term audiogram means the inclusion of profiling from the aural responses so as to obtain the extent of the hearing loss of the patient. The programming fitting server derives at least one audiological parameter from the aural responses. Such audiological parameters are used to tailor an audiological therapy to program existing audiological software or to upgrade existing audiological software. For the purpose of this illustration the programming fitting server derives an adjustment to an audio signal processing component of the hearing aid system . Such adjustment incrementally tailors an audiological therapy provided by the hearing aid system so that the hearing aid system fits the patient.

The foregoing illustrative discussion is also applicable in an embodiment that includes the hearing aid system .

The act of interacting includes entering an identification of a patient entering an identification of a type of hearing aid system that is being fitted or worn by the patient or recording aural responses of the patient to audio test signals.

The process includes at block communicating with a server application that is executing on a server. In one embodiment the server is coupled to the Internet. The client application is adapted to communicate with the server application through a long range wireless network. The act of communicating includes uploading information gathered during the act of interacting such as the identification of the patient. The act of communicating further includes communicating with the client application to download information such as a programming interface.

The process includes at block determining at least one programming interface to program the hearing aid system. The act of determining includes using at least the type of the hearing aid system to derive the programming interface. The term programming interface means the inclusion of an application programming interface for a specific type of hearing aid system the application programming interface includes a set of audiological parameters that may be adjusted so as to fit the hearing aid system to the patient.

The process includes at block programming the hearing aid system. The act of programming includes adjusting the set of audiological parameters through the application programming interface. The act of programming may also include downloading new software to replace the existing software in the hearing aid system. The act of programming may further include downloading an incremental upgrade to the existing software in the hearing aid system.

The process includes at block tailoring the hearing aid system to the patient by adjusting at least one programming interface by the client application. The act of tailoring includes the incremental adjustment of the hearing aid system so that the hearing aid system fits the patient.

The foregoing discussion is also applicable to an embodiment where a client application is executing on a terminal.

In various embodiments a client application executing on the mobile device can interact with the hearing aid systems or through the custom interface module . The client application may be in communication with a server application executing on a programming fitting server through an Internet gateway and cellular mobile network .

In various embodiments the PCID is adapted to communicate with hearing aid systems or using a short range wireless network. The hearing aid system includes a hearing aid device and a programming module . The PCID is also adapted to communicate with a programming fitting server . Such communication may occur over a cellular mobile network gateway and Internet .

In any embodiments that include the PCID the PCID can send audio test signals to the hearing aid systems or . Such audio test signals are compressed before transmission. Once these compressed audio test signals are received by either the hearing aid systems or the audio test signals are decompressed. These test signals are then presented to the patient. In yet any other embodiments that include the PCID the PCID can send instructions to the hearing aid systems or . Based on the instructions the hearing aid systems or generates the audio test signals using its audio signal processing capability.

The terminal is adapted to communicate with hearing aid systems and through at least one short range network. In various embodiments the short range network includes a radio communication network such as Bluetooth an optical communication network such as Infrared Data Association IrDA protocol or a wired communication network. In one embodiment the short range network is a wireless network.

In various embodiments the hearing aid systems and include a hearing aid device. In various embodiments the hearing aid systems and are adapted to be capable of audio signal processing. In various embodiments the hearing aid systems and are adapted to be capable of digital audio compression and decompression. The hearing aid system includes a hearing aid device and a programming module . The programming module is adapted to communicate with the hearing aid device so as to receive at least one programming instruction from the terminal to program the hearing aid device . In all embodiments described above and below the hearing aid system may include a headset. The headset is capable of detecting and communicating ambient information to a server application so as to provide additional information to fit program or upgrade the audiological software of the hearing aid system . In another embodiment the programming module is implemented as a headset. The programming module is adapted to be capable of sending a test audio signal to the hearing aid so as to test at least one aural response of a patient.

The terminal is also adapted to communicate wirelessly using a long range wireless network . In various embodiments the long range wireless network includes various wireless technologies such as Global System for Mobile Communications GSM Code Division Multiple Access one cdmaOne Time Division Multiple Access TDMA PDC Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS Code Division Multiple Access 2000 cdma2000 and Digital Enhanced Cordless Telephony DECT .

The terminal is adapted to communicate with a server through the long range wireless network . The server contains distributed applications such as a distributed object that is adapted to interact with hearing aid systems and . The distributed object is adapted to move from the server to the terminal so as to execute on the terminal to interact with the hearing aid systems and . In one embodiment the distributed object can receive information from the server and can transmit information to the server . In one embodiment the terminal includes a software environment such as a browser that is capable of receiving a distributed object. Such a distributed object can execute on the terminal so as to interact with the hearing aid systems and . In a further embodiment the server includes a database that includes patient data and audiological data associated with at least one type of hearing aid system. In one embodiment the terminal is a customized or application specific device.

In this embodiment the mobile device contains all the software and information to interact with either hearing aid systems and without having to interact with a server. In such embodiment the mobile device can derive at least one audiological parameter from the aural responses obtained from the patient. As previously discussed such audiological parameters are used to tailor an audiological therapy to program existing audiological software or to upgrade existing audiological software.

In this embodiment both the client and server applications reside on the mobile device . Thus the mobile device does not necessarily need to interact with a server.

Thus systems devices structures and methods have been described for fitting programming or upgrading hearing aid systems. In the embodiments where wireless communication is used the processes of fitting programming and upgrading hearing aid systems may avoid the frustration of prior process due to the myriad of programming equipment. The equipment used in the described processes may benefit from running the most recent and relevant version of software. The equipment may also benefit from the ability to process data remotely or synchronizing of data. Professionals who are engaged in these processes may benefit from the ability to access a central database to store information as well as access patient and account information. Also by leveraging the economy of scale offered by wireless information technology the embodiments provide a solution that is low cost. This is the case because wireless information technology is often built into mass marketed mobile devices such as a cellular telephone.

Although the specific embodiments have been illustrated and described herein it will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art that any arrangement which is calculated to achieve the same purpose may be substituted for the specific embodiment shown. This application is intended to cover any adaptations or variations of the present invention. It is to be understood that the above description is intended to be illustrative and not restrictive. Combinations of the above embodiments and other embodiments will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reviewing the above description. The scope of the invention includes any other applications in which the above structures and fabrication methods are used. Accordingly the scope of the invention should only be determined with reference to the appended claims along with the full scope of equivalents to which such claims are entitled.

