---

title: Modular charge system
abstract: A modular charge system based on a standard module fitted with a flying plate or a liner and axially coupled to other modules to configure the size and type of charge. The explosive is enclosed in a casing, which has a cylindrical wall with a plurality of external longitudinal rails that run lengthwise. The rails are substantially parallel, and approximately equidistantly spaced around the perimeter of the casing. The space between a pair of rails defines a channel. The casing rails function as a cylindrical tamper. The explosive is partitioned into removable portions and permanent portions, where the removable portions are separated from the permanent portions and any retained removable portions, therein enabling the module to be fitted with a variety of flying plates, liners and other hardware. Modules may be coupled utilizing internal slides, positioned in the channels to join modules.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09303961&OS=09303961&RS=09303961
owner: The United States of America as Represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 09303961
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131011
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for Governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefore.

The invention relates generally to explosive tools and more particularly to a modular system of explosive tools that condenses the capabilities available from multiple explosives and explosive tools into one standard module.

The US Army s special operations forces have performed demolition operations dating back to pre World War II using bulk explosives and non standard improvised methods. Soldiers have used materials found in the field such as junk yard scrap glass champagne bottle bottoms and steel plates and molded the explosive to them in an attempt to increase the efficiency of the charges for specialized missions. Since the advent of munitions incorporating explosively formed penetrators projectiles EFPs as warheads the special operations forces have learned to build demolition charges using this technology. Often times through trial and error the mission succeeded using the improvised demolition charges to neutralize the target. However improvised EFPs are rarely optimized nor do they have consistent and reliable performance because of the variability in materials and building techniques employed.

To overcome some of these deficiencies demolition kits have been developed for the Navy s Seals and the Army s Special Operations Forces soldiers. Typically a kit has included a collection of inert metal and plastic parts and commercially available items that give soldiers a wide selection of warheads and attachment devices which can tailored to neutralize a specific target. Many kits have various warheads at least three sizes of conical shaped charges four sizes of linear shaped charges where the relative dimensions stay about the same the size is just increased. As the kits have evolved to have greater capabilities so has the weight. The warheads that are provided have a pre set configuration that contains all materials except the explosive. The explosive still has to be packed into the warheads. Currently the demolition kit also has inert components to tailor make various explosive charges and devices to attach or aim these charges at the target.

Near the mission jump off site the user will select the proper sized warheads and hand pack the warheads with Composition C 4 moldable explosive. The armed warheads are manually carried in a backpack to the target site.

The disclosed invention in one exemplary aspect is a modular charge system MCS that is uniquely suitable to be utilized in dismounted operations particularly explosive ordnance disposal operations where dismounted operations require that potentially everything has to be manually carried for instance in a backpack. It is anticipated that there are no particular size limitations but that some sizes are more easily handled without mechanical assistance either for larger or smaller modular charge systems. The invented system enables a relatively small suit of devices to assemble multiple types of charges including shape charges SC explosively formed projectiles EFPs explosively driven flyer plates FPs contact charges CC linear shape charges LSC strip charges STRPC and other explosive tools such as those employed to breach an obstacle. The invented system condenses and consolidates the capabilities available from multiple explosives and explosive tools into a substantially relatively lightweight suit of devices which is suitable for dismounted operations.

A standard module is loaded with explosive and while some trimming may be necessary hand packing the explosive is not required. The standard module may be used alone or in combination with multiple other compatible modules. The standard module has a casing with a substantially cylindrical wall where the cylindrical wall has a plurality of external longitudinal rails that run the length of the casing. The casing with rails functions as a cylindrical tamper around the explosive charge. The rails are parallel like tracks and they are approximately equidistantly spaced around the perimeter of the casing where the space between a pair of rails defines a channel.

A second exemplary aspect of the invention is that each rail includes multiple sides including an upper left side a upper right side a left under side a right under side and a bottom that is contiguous with a perimeter wall of the casing. In contrast to conventional rails which have a flat upper surface the upper left side and the upper right side of the rails have an upper surface that is sloped. The upper left side and the upper right side intersect forming an apical edge. In stark contrast to spline like rails which can have a similar apical edge the left under side and the right under side of each of the casing s rails are undercut each side forming a sloped undercut surface. As will be discussed later the morphology of the rail imparts very useful features to the casing with rails.

Another exemplary aspect of the invention is that each standard module potentially may be axially coupled to another standard module such that a plurality of standard modules may be coupled therein condensing and consolidating multiple explosives and explosive tools into a few relatively lightweight devices. Coupling is effected without the need of threaded joints or even twist locking which would change the orientation of one standard module relative to a joined standard module. The invented method of coupling results in an interface that intrinsically produces an accurate sight and a mechanism for attaching other sighting systems. The aligned rails themselves serve as a sighting mechanism and additionally enables the mounting of various ancillary sighting devices and therefore various configurations of the modular charge system can be effectively aimed. Examples of ancillary sighting devices includes a gun sight front rear flip up scope sights on a Picatinny rail such as a Trijicon Tall Picatinny Rail Mount and using a stand such as a tripod where the stand has a sighting mechanism. The system enables substantially all of the several shape charge configurations to be held at a fixed distance from a target by an apparatus such as an extended pole sometimes known as a pigstick.

The coupling mechanism of the modular charge system utilizes elongate internal slides positioned in the channels to join one standard module to an adjacent standard module. When positioned a slide spans from one sectional length of channel between a pair of rails to a second sectional length of channel of the adjacent standard module thereby joining the two standard modules. Stop elements such as screws notches and snap on positioning elements may be incorporated in the elongate internal slides to position fixedly the location of the internal slides in the channels.

An important aspect of the invention is that for a given suit of tools where various liners igniters and other components are also considered tools the modules are standardized. Standardization includes size morphology and partitioning of the explosive therein enabling an assemblage of multiple types of charges to be configured to have a range of total weight of explosive even though the size of an individual standard module remains the same. Exemplary types of charges include shape charges SC explosively formed projectiles aka penetrators EFPs explosively driven flyer plates FPs contact charges CC for cutting linear shape charges LSC strip charges STRPC and multiple explosive types of charges for breaching obstacles.

The standard module may be modified in the field to have variations in the shape and the amount of the explosive so as to meet the needs for the mission. For instance in a first variation the explosive is partitioned into longitudinal portions where the longitudinal portions are substantially either permanent or removable. If the explosive is removable then it can be separated from the permanent portions and any other removable portions that remain in the standard module. When a removable portion is removed it is normally replaced with an appropriate liner s as needed. The shape of the removable explosive portions is not limited but two useful shapes are a semi circular wedge and an elliptical wedge where one or more of the removable wedges is removed when configuring standard modules to a type of charge such as a LSC CC STRPC and a EFP with a bar like liner. In a second variation of the standard module the explosive is recessed from a rim of the casing and the explosive has at least one removable conical explosive portion such that when removed the standard module may be fitted with a conical liner forming a shaped charge that is an EFP with a conical liner. Alternatively the explosive may be left untouched and the standard module may be fitted with a plate forming an explosively driven flyer plate FP .

In substantially all scenarios the modular system includes an access port for a shock tube blasting cap or other igniter where the access port is located on a casing floor or in a casing portal. The access port is generally mounted proximate to the bulk of explosive usually opposing the liner.

The modular charge system is based on a standard module that may be fitted with a flying plate a liner or other hardware and may be axially coupled to other modules configuring the size and type of charge. The explosive is enclosed in a casing which has a cylindrical wall with a plurality of external longitudinal rails that run lengthwise. The rails are substantially parallel and approximately equidistantly spaced around the perimeter of the casing. The space between a pair of rails defines a channel. The casing rails function as a cylindrical tamper. The explosive is partitioned into removable portions and permanent portions where removable portions may be separated from the permanent portions and any retained removable portions therein enabling the module to be to be fitted with a variety of flying plates liners and other hardware. Modules can be coupled utilizing elongate internal slides positioned in the channels to join modules.

Referring to which is a partially exploded exemplary view of a type of charge configured from the modular charge system. The illustrated type of charge is a shaped charge configured with three coupled standard modules . The modules are coupled with a plurality of elongate internal slides positioned in the channels of paired rails and span a pair of coupled modules. In this instance module is coupled to both and . The shape of the charge in module is substantially conical and it is covered with a liner . Shape charges only need a relatively thin liner with enough to protect the explosive and the charge is configured with a changeable liner material comprised of copper magnesium aluminum and glass. Heavier liners are used in explosively formed projectile EFP to produce a projectile and as shown in the liner is inserted in module where all the modules have a cylindrical casing with perimeter external longitudinal rails . The illustrated heavier liner is thicker and composed of copper.

Referring to which is a substantially perspective view of a standard module configured as an explosively driven flyer plate where the flyer plate is changeable. Generally the plate is made of iron copper aluminum other metals and alloys thereof. The explosive is partitioned into permanent portions and removable portions including a removable semi circular wedge of explosive for configuring a linear shape charge LSC as well as a removable elliptical wedge of explosive for configuring a hemispherical charge and a strip charge STRPC which launches a bar of metal ceramic or other material. Each rail includes multiple sides including an upper left side a upper right side a left under side a right under side and a bottom see dashed line that is contiguous with a perimeter wall of the casing. In contrast to conventional rails which have a flat upper surface the upper left side and the upper right side of the rails is sloped. The upper left side and the upper right side intersect forming an apical edge . In stark contrast to spline like rails the left under side and the right under side of each of the casing s rails are undercut each under side forming a sloped undercut surface. The apical edge is intrinsically a sighting device.

Another feature one may partially see in is that the slide has V shaped notches on opposing edges such that the upper side of the notch will contact the upper sides of a pair of rails and the lower side of the notch may contact the lower sides of that pair of rails.

Referring to the explosive in a variation of the standard module has a partitioned explosive with a removable conical wedge of explosive that can be separated from the permanent explosive therein shaping the charge to accommodate a conical liner.

Referring to which is an overhead perspective view of a six module explosive device that has been configured to have a right angle bar projectile EFP made of metal ceramic or other material. The slides in the channels span an interface of coupled modules. In the device multiple semi circular removable wedges have been removed to accommodate the inserted right angle bar . The elliptical removable portion of the partitioned explosive has not been removed. The explosive device is detonated with an igniter which in the illustrated exemplary embodiment is a shock tube . The igniter is mounted in an igniter access port . The igniter access port is shown located in a closing module plate . This configuration may also be in a standard module having the igniter access port .

Referring to which is a linear shaped charge device similar to device illustrated in albeit in this assembly several consecutive removable elliptical wedges have been removed and a hemispherical liner is inserted forming the linear explosively formed projectile EFP . The semi circular removable wedges are retained. The slides have notches and are fitted with stops which may be tightened. In addition to the apical edge which is an intrinsic sighting mechanism the rail is fitted with an ancillary sight 

The disclosed invention is highly suited for explosive ordnance disposal performed using dismounted operations. In particular dismounted operations that require potentially everything to be manually carried for instance in a backpack. The system is advantageous in that the explosive is already packed in standard modules and may be configured into multiple explosive devices. Hand packing the explosive is not required just the removal of pre partitioned portions. The removed explosives may be utilized in breaching tools that use relatively narrow strips of explosive generally in flexible elongate casings. The Removed explosives also may be safely stored in substantially empty standard modules. Packing materials such as plastic tags may be used to minimize movement of the removed explosives.

The invented system condenses and consolidates the capabilities available from multiple explosives and explosive tools into substantially one relatively lightweight device suitable for dismounted operations.

Examples of varieties of explosive that are in common use in shape charges include cyclotrimethylene trinitramine RDX cyclotetramethylenetetranitramine HMX pentaerythritoltetranitrate PETN hexanitrostilbene HNS and dipicramide DiPam .

Cyclotrimethylenetrinitramine RDX a colorless explosive is usually dyed pink for use in LSCs. RDX must be highly purified to insure stability at higher temperatures. Most LSCs contain RDX. Cyclotetramethylenetetranitramine HMX is very similar to RDX. HMX is white to colorless. It may be used at higher temperatures than RDX. Pentaerythritoltetranitrate PETN is less powerful and more sensitive than RDX. PETN is used primarily in detonators but may be used in LSCs. Dipicramide DiPam is a relatively new explosive. It is less brisant and less sensitive than RDX. Hexanitrostilbene HNS is a new explosive also developed by NOL for high temperature applications.

An explosive composition includes substantially RDX with a plastic binder usually polyisobutylene a plasticizer usually dioctyl sebacate or dioctyl adipate and sometimes includes a motor oil.

The modular charge system in one exemplary embodiment includes a backpack and a plurality of standard modules that may be axially coupled to at least one other module. The standard module has an explosive in a casing having a substantially cylindrical wall with a plurality of external longitudinal rails that run lengthwise. The rails are substantially parallel and approximately equidistantly spaced around the perimeter of the casing where the space between a pair of rails defines a channel. The casing and rails function in part as a cylindrical tamper around the explosive where the explosive in the standard module is partitioned into substantially removable portions and permanent portions. The removable portions may be separated from the permanent portions and any retained removable portions using simple tools such as a spatula and a knife therein enabling the standard module to be fitted with a variety of flying plates bars liners and other hardware. The system generally includes a plurality of flying plates of differing materials a plurality of liners of different shapes and lengths and of differing materials previously discussed that are known to be effective especially to explosive ordnance disposal technicians and a plurality of igniters. Shock tubing is generally favored but the choice is influenced by the mission and the selection of the explosive. The system pack includes several module closing plates with an igniter access port a stand for positioning the charge several non standard modules with no explosive for storing removed explosive and plastic bags to be used for cushioning removed explosive and storing water based liquids.

Finally any numerical parameters set forth in the specification and attached claims are approximations for example by using the term about that may vary depending upon the desired properties sought to be obtained by the present invention. At the very least and not as an attempt to limit the application of the doctrine of equivalents to the scope of the claims each numerical parameter should at least be construed in light of the number of significant digits and by applying ordinary rounding.

