---

title: Method and system for dynamically prioritizing user connections on network
abstract: The present disclosure discloses a method and network device for dynamically prioritizing user connections on network. The disclosed system identifies a priority class associated with a client device prior to an initial connection from the client device to a network, and reserves access to a network resource for the client device based on the priority class prior to the initial connection. Specifically, the system evaluates a total capacity of the network resource and an anticipated usage of the network resource by the client device associated with the priority level. Then, the system will reject requests for accessing the network resource received from other client devices prior to the client device associated with the priority level accesses the network resource.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09590916&OS=09590916&RS=09590916
owner: Aruba Networks, Inc.
number: 09590916
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130904
---
The present disclosure relates to network resource access management. In particular the present disclosure relates to a method and system for dynamically prioritizing user connections on a network.

In a wireless local area network WLAN a large number of users with different roles in the enterprise may want to access a finite or limited set of resources. For example in a classroom on a campus there may be one instructor and many students who need to access the network where there is only one access point AP located in or near the classroom providing network access. Thus all of the students will connect to the same AP which may potentially cause the instructor unable to connect to the network due to the user limits being reached by the AP. Sometimes even if the instructor is able to connect to the AP in or near the classroom because of the large number of users that are concurrently connected to the AP the instructor will be suffering from poor network connectivity.

Some conventional mechanisms of network resource management provide for load balancing of clients across multiple access points based on the client capabilities or user roles associated with each client. Other solutions provide for ways of filtering network resources such that clients with different roles will have different views of the network resources based on network policies. However there has been no known mechanism that dynamically prioritize user connections which guarantees access to network resources from high priority users based on their roles.

In the following description several specific details are presented to provide a thorough understanding. While the context of the disclosure is directed to network resource access management one skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that the concepts and techniques disclosed herein can be practiced without one or more of the specific details or in combination with other components etc. In other instances well known implementations or operations are not shown or described in details to avoid obscuring aspects of various examples disclosed herein. It should be understood that this disclosure covers all modifications equivalents and alternatives falling within the spirit and scope of the present disclosure.

Embodiments of the present disclosure relate to networking resource access management. In particular the present disclosure relates to a method and system for dynamically prioritizing user connections on network. Specifically the system first prioritizes user connections by identifying a set of high priority clients. Then the system can determine a bandwidth reserved for the set of high priority clients based on a variety of factors such as the access point s capacity anticipated usage by the high priority clients etc. Accordingly the system will either reserve the bandwidth on the access point for the network usage by the set of high priority clients or restrict the usage by other clients.

A network controller such as network device is a hardware device and or software module that provide network managements which include but are not limited to controlling planning allocating deploying coordinating and monitoring the resources of a network network planning frequency allocation predetermined traffic routing to support load balancing cryptographic key distribution authorization configuration management fault management security management performance management bandwidth management route analytics and accounting management etc.

Moreover assuming that a number of access points such as access point access point etc. are interconnected with network device . Each access point or may be interconnected with zero or more client devices via either a wired interface or a wireless interface. In this example for illustration purposes only assuming that the client is associated with the access point via a wireless link. An access point or generally refers to a network device that allows wireless clients to connect to a wired network. Access points or usually connect to a controller device such as network device via a wired network or can be a part of network device in itself. For example the access point or may be connected to network device via an optional layer 2 or layer 3 network.

Furthermore the network device can be connected to a router not shown through zero or more hops in a layer 3 or layer 2 network. The router can forward traffic to and receive traffic from the Internet. The router generally is a network device that forwards data packets between different networks and thus creating an overlay internetwork. A router is typically connected to two or more data lines from different networks. When a data packet comes in one of the data lines the router reads the address information in the packet to determine its destination. Then using information in its routing table or routing policy the router directs the packet to the next different network. A data packet is typically forwarded from one router to another router through the Internet until the packet gets to its destination.

A client device such as client client . . . or client may be a computing device that includes a memory and a processor for example a laptop computer a desktop computer a tablet computer a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a mobile email device a portable game player a portable music player a reader device a television with one or more processors embedded therein or coupled thereto or other electronic device capable of accessing a network. Although only a few clients are illustrated in a plurality of clients can be included in such network computing environment.

Note that in a typical deployment scenario the number of network resources such as access points printers projectors scanners etc. often is limited. On the other hand the total number of clients supported by a network controller such as network device increases as the technology improves. Thus it is important to prioritizing the large number of clients while managing the limited network resources.

For example in a campus classroom environment with only one access point AP deployed in the area there may be 50 students and 1 instructor all of whom will be attempting to connect to the same AP at the same time. Sometimes the instructor may not be able to connect because of the user limit on the AP has been reached. Other times even if the instructor is able to connect to the AP he may not be able to use the network due to poor quality of connection. On the other hand the instructor needs to be given a higher priority while accessing network resources because hypothetically if the instructor cannot connect to the network the class presentation may not be able to proceed and thus all of the 50 students will suffer from the consequence of the instructor s inability to connect to the AP.

As another example web conferences or webinars have become exceedingly popular nowadays. If a host of a webinar cannot connect to the network then the conference would not be able to proceed properly. Thus the host of the webinar in this scenario would need to be assigned a higher priority than other users.

Therefore where there is a finite or limited network resource set that cannot support all of the users who wish to consume the network resource set conventionally there lacks a mechanism for providing a subset of users with a specific priority classification to gain a differentiated level of access to the network resource set from other users without such priority classification or with a different priority classification. Specifically the finite or limited network resource set may include association with an access point allocation of a fair amount of airtime by the access point usage bandwidth access to certain network devices e.g. a network printer projector etc. and so on.

Conventionally the network can balance a plurality of clients across multiple APs on either a fair access or preferred access basis. In fair access balancing scheme all network users will receive equal amount of airtime. With fair access every user device will be allocated equal bandwidth.

In preferred access balancing scheme client devices with higher capabilities receive preferred access to network resources. For example if a client is capable of communicating on dual bands the client will be eligible for preferred access to the network resources. On the other hand legacy clients will not be able to get the preferred access to the network resources.

Accordingly in these conventional schemes the differentiated access is only given based on client device capabilities and does not take into account of the identity of the user who has been authenticated to use the client device.

Alternatively a user may be assigned a role for example an instructor role or a student role. In addition each role is associated with a number of devices. The discovery of network resources by the user may be restricted by the role assigned to the user. For example only users who are assigned with an instructor role may discover the existence of a network resource located in the classroom e.g. a network TV device. Because other users who are not assigned with the specific role will not discover the network resource their usage of such network resource is thus restricted. Nevertheless the restriction can only be performed on a per role basis. It is difficult to enforce network resource restriction on a per user basis. Thus when multiple users of the same role need to access the same network resources there needs to be a mechanism to prioritize the multiple users.

The mechanism disclosed herein involves three basic elements 1 identifying client devices 2 caching the device information with designated priority and 3 providing high availability of network service to the identified client devices or the client devices designated with high priority.

According to embodiments of the present disclosure each client device in a network is assigned with a level of priority. For simplicity of illustration assuming that each client device with a unique Media Access Control MAC address is assigned either a high priority or a low priority. To identify high priority devices a network administrator may configure on a static basis that a set of known MAC addresses e.g. the MAC addresses of devices that owned by an instructor to be assigned high priority. Alternatively the network administrator may configure a set of network policies to facilitate identification of high priority users. Note that multiple levels of priorities may be configured. Moreover a priority level may include multiple sub levels.

In the exemplary scenario of network resource access in a classroom client may be a client device associated with a user who is an instructor. Clients may be client devices associated with users who are students. In addition priority class may be divided into multiple sub classes not shown . For example client devices owned by visiting students may be given a lower priority than those client devices that are owned by regular students. In some embodiments client devices may be classified into multiple priority classes e.g. a high priority class a regular priority class and a guest priority class.

The priority may be assigned based on a number of factors including but not limited to the network policy the role of the user the nature of the network resources the capability of the client device etc. The priority for each client device can be identified statically or dynamically.

Memory storage on the network can maintain a mapping between client device identifiers e.g. MAC addresses and designated priorities and share the mapping with network devices in the network.

Moreover the priority may be assigned based on a network policy. For example client devices of the users who are instructors are assigned to high priority. Thus the first time when an instructor connects to an access point in the network with his laptop computer the MAC address of the instructor s laptop computer is recorded and the laptop computer is designated as high priority. As a result an entry that includes the MAC address of the instructor s laptop computer and a high priority class designation is added to the memory storage or a cache.

Since device association is typically a first in first out FIFO event at the access point AP regardless of whether it is a new association or a roaming client previously associated with another AP client devices in a WLAN can be designated to at least two priority classifications high availability HA devices and non HA devices. HA devices for example would be identified based on certain rules configured by the administrator. Note that a client device may be designated as an HA device according to network policies or rules that are based on one or more of a user role a device type an identifier of the device e.g. a MAC address an Extended Service Set Identification ESSID and or a combination of the above. Specifically all devices from a CEO and or a presenter of a meeting may be identified as HA devices.

As another example all devices from a CEO and or a presenter of a meeting are identified by certain device characteristics such as Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol DHCP or Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP signatures. With proper device characteristic identified when the same user has multiple different types of devices e.g. an iPad device a laptop device a smartphone device etc. it is possible for one particular device from the user to be designated as an HA device whereas the other devices from the same users are non HA devices.

Users could be added statically so that the initial association from a user can also benefit from prioritized access to network resources. This is because without static predetermined client priority configuration the user would need to connect at least once to the network in order to be added to the storage or cache of HA devices. However static client priority configuration facilitates enforcing device priority level during the very first association between the device and any access point in the network.

Moreover in some embodiments the cache entries can be populated across to all access points in the network such that when the device later roams to a different access point in the network its priority level will be identified and preserved seamlessly during the roaming process.

The system disclosed herein also cache device priority information which includes but is not limited to the device s MAC address the user s login credentials e.g. user names and or any other related parameters such as ESSID VLAN etc. The device priority information is used to provide device HA functions such as prioritized association handling reservation of Wireless Multimedia Extension WMM and or AP radio queues dynamically prioritizing traffic in higher queues and so forth. In some embodiments this cache information may be stored in a database on a network device such as a network controller to be persistent across network device reboots.

According to some embodiments when the APs and the controller boot up the device priority information in the cache database is pushed to all network devices in the WLAN. Also whenever a new entry is added the database is updated and the updated information is pushed to all network devices as well.

In some embodiments where a fixed limit is enforced on the device count e.g. 100 device entries an AP in the network may be able to accept associations from HA device clients even beyond the maximum association limit for the AP. Specifically when AP receives an association request if AP has already reached its maximum association limit the AP will check the cache table to determine whether the new client s MAC address exists in the table. If the client s MAC address is present in the cache table and the maximum limit of high availability devices has not been reached on the AP the association is accepted. On the other hand if the client MAC address is not present in the cache table or if the maximum association limit for the high availability devices already has been reached on the AP the association is rejected.

The cache entries are also dynamically updated or deleted. For example the cache entry can be cleared dynamically if some of the parameters used to determine priorities are changed. For instance if user name changes the disclosed system may decide to drop the devices from the cache list that stores device priority information for HA devices.

In order to guarantee network resource access by prioritized users a system according to embodiments of the present disclosure can evaluate the capacity of the network resource for example by estimating the total bandwidth that an access point supports. In addition the system also evaluates the anticipated usage by users from a specific priority class e.g. by estimating the bandwidth that high priority users of a network will need. Then the system can reserve a portion of the network resource usage for the users of the specific priority class prior to those users actual access to the network resources.

For example assuming that an access point can support up to 50 concurrent clients and that there are a total of 5 clients designated to the high priority class. Thus the access point may be configured to reserve 10 of its bandwidth for client devices of the high priority class. Accordingly the access point will only accept connection requests from up to 45 clients of a non high priority class and reserve its capacity to be connected by 5 additional clients to those clients of the high priority class.

In assuming that priority class is a high priority class and that priority class is a low priority class. Initially clients from priority class has been connected to access point . Nevertheless it is known that client of priority class will need to be connected to access point . Moreover access point has the capacity to support only one additional client besides clients that are already connected to access point . Assuming that a low priority client such as client from priority class attempts to connect to access point now. Although access point has the capacity to support one additional client access point with nevertheless reject the connection requests from client of priority class because the additional client connection capacity has been reserved for client from priority class . Subsequently when client tries to connect to access point access point will accept the connection request after ascertaining that client is designated with the appropriate priority class e.g. priority class .

Note that other network resources may be reserved for high priority users in the same fashion. In the context of WLAN airtime generally refers to the amount of time for which actual transmissions of frames occur between a wireless client and the access point that it associates with. For example the access point may be configured to reserve 40 of its airtime for client devices of the high priority class. Therefore if there are 20 client devices of low priority and 1 client device of high priority connected to the access point the access point will be allocating 3 of its airtime to each client device of the low priority and 40 of its airtime to the client device of the high priority.

As another example the disclosed system may reserve certain network service features for clients of a specific priority class. Specifically key cache entries are generally used to offload hardware cryptographic functionalities for improved security performance. A system in accordance to embodiments of the present disclosure may reserve a number of such key cache entries.

In yet another example the disclosed system may reserve a number of beamforming entries for clients of a specific priority class. Specifically beamforming technique generally combines elements in a phased array so that signals at particular angles at which a specific client is located experience constructive interference while others experience destructive interference. Beamforming can be used at both the transmitting and receiving ends in order to achieve spatial selectivity that effectively boosts signal strengths for certain selected client devices. Beamforming entries are maintained at a network device such as a network controller to determine which clients will benefit from the signal boosts from being the target of beamforming e.g. from multiple access points in the area. An access point may be capable of supporting up to 100 clients. However the beamforming feature can be applied to only a small subset of those clients. Therefore by reserving beamforming entries for the client devices of high priority class the system also reserves the access to selected features only for the client devices of a specific priority class.

Furthermore besides reserving a certain amount of network resources or a certain network service feature for clients of a specific priority class the disclosed system can also restrict the amount of network resource or selected network service usage by other clients of different priority classes.

The disclosed system can further cache device priority information in a cache. Also the disclosed system can update the device priority information and exchange updated device priority information with other network devices in the network to maintain consistency and easy accessibility of the device priority information. Specifically the cache maintains a mapping between client device identifiers of a plurality of client devices and designated priority classes associated with the plurality of client devices. Note that the device priority information provides functions such as prioritized wireless network association handling prioritized reservation of Wireless Multimedia Extension WMM prioritized reservation of access point radio queues dynamically prioritized traffic in higher queues prioritized airtime usage of the network device prioritized access to network service features etc. Prioritized access to network service features includes but is not limited to prioritized access to key cache entries for offloadining hardware cryptographic functionalities at the network device prioritized access to beamforming entries for directing beamforming activities from multiple network devices to targeted client devices.

Also the disclosed system identifies the priority class associated with the client device prior to an initial connection from the client device to the network operation . The system will then reserve access to network resource for the client device based on priority class prior to its initial connection to network operation .

More specifically as illustrated in the disclosed system may reserve access to network resource by evaluating total capacity of the network resource operation . In addition the disclosed system also evaluates anticipated usage of network resource by the client device associated with the priority class operation .

Furthermore the disclosed system will reject requests for accessing network resource received from other client devices based on current usage of network resource by all client devices anticipated usage of network device by the client device and total capacity of the network resource operation . For example the requests are rejected if the difference between the total capacity and the sum of i the current usage and iI the anticipated usage of the network resource is insufficient for accommodating accesses to the network resource from the other network devices. Alternatively the system may start to restrict usage of the network resource by client devices which have been granted access in response to the difference between the total capacity and the sum of i the current usage and ii the anticipated usage of the network resource is near zero.

Moreover the disclosed system will accept request for accessing network resource received from the client device associated with the priority class after the client device initiates the connection to the network operation . Note that the disclosed system will do so even when the current usage of the network resource and the total capacity of the network resource remain unchanged.

Network interface can be any communication interface which includes but is not limited to a modem token ring interface Ethernet interface wireless IEEE 802.11 interface e.g. IEEE 802.11n IEEE 802.11ac etc. cellular wireless interface satellite transmission interface or any other interface for coupling network devices. In some embodiments network interface may be software defined and programmable for example via an Application Programming Interface API and thus allowing for remote control of the network device .

Memory can include storage components such as Dynamic Random Access Memory DRAM Static Random Access Memory SRAM etc. In some embodiments memory includes a cache for storing device priority information according to embodiments of the present disclosure.

Processor typically includes a networking processor that is capable of processing network data traffic. In some embodiments processor may include multiple processing cores and or ASICs.

Designating mechanism generally designates device priority information e.g. a priority class. For example designating mechanism can designate a priority class to a client device based on one or more of pre configured network rules and network policies. Note that the pre configured network rules and network policies are based on for example a user role a device type a MAC address of the client device an Extended Service Set Identification ESSID etc.

Identifying mechanism generally identifies device priority information. For example identifying mechanism can identify a priority class associated with a client device prior to an initial connection from the client device to the network.

Reserving mechanism generally reserves a network resource. For example reserving mechanism reserves access to a network resource for the client device based on the priority class prior to the initial connection from the client device to the network. Moreover reserving mechanism also evaluates a total capacity of the network resource and an anticipated usage of the network resource by the client device associated with the priority class.

Furthermore reserving mechanism can reject requests for accessing the network resource received from other client devices prior to the client device associated with the priority class accesses the network resource based on a current usage of the network resource by all client devices the anticipated usage of the network device by the client device associated with the priority class and the total capacity of the network resource. For example reserving mechanism rejects requests from other client devices if the difference between the total capacity and the sum of i the current usage and ii the anticipated usage of the network resource is insufficient for accommodating accesses to the network resource from the other network devices.

In addition reserving mechanism can restrict usage of the network resource by client devices which have been granted access in response to the difference between the total capacity and the sum of i the current usage and ii the anticipated usage of the network resource is near zero.

Accepting mechanism generally accepts requests for accessing network resources. For example accepting mechanism can accept a request for accessing the network resource by the client device associated with the priority class after the client initiates the connection to the network. Note that the request is accepted after the requests from the other client devices are rejected even though the total capacity the current usage and the anticipated usage remain unchanged.

Caching mechanism generally caches device information. For example caching mechanism can cache device priority information in a cache update the device priority information and exchange the updated device priority information with other network devices in the network.

According to embodiments of the present disclosure network services provided by network device solely or in combination with other wireless network devices include but are not limited to an Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.1x authentication to an internal and or external Remote Authentication Dial In User Service RADIUS server an MAC authentication to an internal and or external RADIUS server a built in Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol DHCP service to assign wireless client devices IP addresses an internal secured management interface Layer 3 forwarding Network Address Translation NAT service between the wireless network and a wired network coupled to the network device an internal and or external captive portal an external management system for managing the network devices in the wireless network etc.

The present disclosure may be realized in hardware software or a combination of hardware and software. The present disclosure may be realized in a centralized fashion in one computer system or in a distributed fashion where different elements are spread across several interconnected computer systems coupled to a network. A typical combination of hardware and software may be an access point with a computer program that when being loaded and executed controls the device such that it carries out the methods described herein.

The present disclosure also may be embedded in non transitory fashion in a computer readable storage medium e.g. a programmable circuit a semiconductor memory such as a volatile memory such as random access memory RAM or non volatile memory such as read only memory power backed RAM flash memory phase change memory or the like a hard disk drive an optical disc drive or any connector for receiving a portable memory device such as a Universal Serial Bus USB flash drive which comprises all the features enabling the implementation of the methods described herein and which when loaded in a computer system is able to carry out these methods. Computer program in the present context means any expression in any language code or notation of a set of instructions intended to cause a system having an information processing capability to perform a particular function either directly or after either or both of the following a conversion to another language code or notation b reproduction in a different material form.

As used herein digital device generally includes a device that is adapted to transmit and or receive signaling and to process information within such signaling such as a station e.g. any data processing equipment such as a computer cellular phone personal digital assistant tablet devices etc. an access point data transfer devices such as network switches routers controllers etc. or the like.

As used herein access point AP generally refers to receiving points for any known or convenient wireless access technology which may later become known. Specifically the term AP is not intended to be limited to IEEE 802.11 based APs. APs generally function as an electronic device that is adapted to allow wireless devices to connect to a wired network via various communications standards.

As used herein the term interconnect or used descriptively as interconnected is generally defined as a communication pathway established over an information carrying medium. The interconnect may be a wired interconnect wherein the medium is a physical medium e.g. electrical wire optical fiber cable bus traces etc. a wireless interconnect e.g. air in combination with wireless signaling technology or a combination of these technologies.

As used herein information is generally defined as data address control management e.g. statistics or any combination thereof. For transmission information may be transmitted as a message namely a collection of bits in a predetermined format. One type of message namely a wireless message includes a header and payload data having a predetermined number of bits of information. The wireless message may be placed in a format as one or more packets frames or cells.

As used herein wireless local area network WLAN generally refers to a communications network links two or more devices using some wireless distribution method for example spread spectrum or orthogonal frequency division multiplexing radio and usually providing a connection through an access point to the Internet and thus providing users with the mobility to move around within a local coverage area and still stay connected to the network.

As used herein the term mechanism generally refers to a component of a system or device to serve one or more functions including but not limited to software components electronic components electrical components mechanical components electro mechanical components etc.

As used herein the term embodiment generally refers an embodiment that serves to illustrate by way of example but not limitation.

It will be appreciated to those skilled in the art that the preceding examples and embodiments are exemplary and not limiting to the scope of the present disclosure. It is intended that all permutations enhancements equivalents and improvements thereto that are apparent to those skilled in the art upon a reading of the specification and a study of the drawings are included within the true spirit and scope of the present disclosure. It is therefore intended that the following appended claims include all such modifications permutations and equivalents as fall within the true spirit and scope of the present disclosure.

While the present disclosure has been described in terms of various embodiments the present disclosure should not be limited to only those embodiments described but can be practiced with modification and alteration within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. Likewise where a reference to a standard is made in the present disclosure the reference is generally made to the current version of the standard as applicable to the disclosed technology area. However the described embodiments may be practiced under subsequent development of the standard within the spirit and scope of the description and appended claims. The description is thus to be regarded as illustrative rather than limiting.

