---

title: System for and method of providing video ring-back tones
abstract: A system for and method for provisioning video ring back tones (vRBTs) is presented. The system may include one or more network enabled computers configured to receive video content from one or more parties over a network. The video content may be used to create one or more vRBTs. The vRBTs may be associated with one or more subscriber profiles. The vRBTs may be assigned to one or more parties. When a party attempts to place a video call to a subscriber, the vRBT may be played back on the calling party's video-equipped device until the subscriber answers the call, ignores the call, or sends the call to voicemail.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09148518&OS=09148518&RS=09148518
owner: Cellco Partnership
number: 09148518
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130314
---
Currently when placing a call to a telephony device an audio tone may be played back on the calling device until the receiving party answers the call. Individuals with telephony devices may desire to share video content that may be played back on a telephony device instead of a traditional audio tone. This content may be exchanged between mobile devices using Personal Data Interchange PDI . PDI occurs when individuals communicate in either a business or personal context. The exchanged information may include business cards telephone numbers addresses dates and times of appointments. Devices that utilize Near Field Communications NFC technology or Microsoft vCard features facilitate PDI electronically.

As the popularity of user generated video continues to grow individuals may send emails embedded with a vCard to which a video clip and or video tag that the recipient can be entertained with is attached. vCards may also be directly exchanged between users using NFC peer to peer mode to accomplish PDI.

The description below describes systems and methods for exchanging and provisioning audio visual ring back tones RBT content on video capable devices such as smartphones softphones tablets PCs or laptops. One or more subscribers to telephony or cable services may exchange video content and upload or share that video content with a provider of telephony and or cable services. When a party places a video call to a subscriber the provisioning system may play back a video RBT vRBT on the calling party s video equipped device before the subscriber answers the call or the call is sent to voicemail.

The description below describes servers devices and network elements that may include one or more modules some of which are explicitly shown others are not. As used herein the term module may be understood to refer to computing software firmware hardware and or various combinations thereof. It is noted that the modules are exemplary. The modules may be combined integrated separated and or duplicated to support various applications. Also a function described herein as being performed at a particular module may be performed at one or more other modules and or by one or more other devices instead of or in addition to the function performed at the particular module. Further the modules may be implemented across multiple devices and or other components local or remote to one another. Additionally the modules may be moved from one device and added to another device and or may be included in both devices.

It is further noted that the software described herein may be tangibly embodied in one or more physical media such as but not limited to a compact disc CD a digital versatile disc DVD a floppy disk a hard drive read only memory ROM random access memory RAM as well as other physical media capable of storing software and or combinations thereof. Moreover the figures illustrate various components e.g. servers network elements telephony devices etc. separately. The functions described as being performed at various components may be performed at other components and the various components may be combined and or separated. Other modifications also may be made.

As used herein the term user device may be for example land line telephony device a tablet computer a smartphone a cellular device a PC or a laptop . Other examples of a user device may include a handheld PC a PDA a tablet computer a satellite phone a handheld MP3 player a handheld video player a personal media player a gaming devices or other devices capable of communicating with network . The user devices may be equipped to play digital videos. The user devices may include Near Field Communication NFC capabilities which may allow for communication with other devices by touching them together or bringing them into close proximity. Exemplary NFC standards include ISO IEC 18092 2004 which defines communication modes for Near Field Communication Interface and Protocol NFCIP 1 . Other exemplary NFC standards include those created by the NFC Forum.

Provider system may be an IP Multimedia Subsystem or IP Multimedia Core Network Subsystem IMS . Provider system may be a cable provider system. It may be a combination of the aforementioned systems.

As shown in provider system may include network elements . Other exemplary embodiments may include more or fewer network elements depending on the system needs. As referred to herein a network element may include but is not limited to e.g. any computer device or communications device including e.g. a server a network appliance a personal computer PC a workstation a mobile device a phone a handheld PC a personal digital assistant PDA a router a thin client a fat client an Internet browser or other device. Network elements may include for example Telephony Application Servers TAS servers equipped with Media Resource Function software MRF or Tone Query Servers TQS . The network elements may be Home Subscriber Servers HSS . The network elements may be a combination of these and other network enabled computing devices. The network enabled computer systems may execute one or more software applications to for example receive data as input from an entity accessing the network enabled computer system process received data transmit data over a network and receive data over a network. The one or more network enabled computer systems may also include one or more software applications to enable the provisioning of vRBT services as described herein.

Network elements may include one or more processors for recording transmitting receiving and storing data. Although network elements are depicted as individual elements it should be appreciated that the contents of one or more of a network elements may be combined into fewer or greater numbers of devices and may be connected to additional devices not depicted in . Furthermore the one or more devices may be local remote or a combination thereof to a network element. According to some embodiments network element may be a residential gateway a router a server or other network infrastructure.

Network elements may provide Application Programming Interfaces APIs interface tables Remote Procedure Calls RPCs web services Extensible Markup Language XML based interfaces Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP based interfaces Common Object Request Broker Architecture CORBA and other interfaces for sending or receiving media searches preferences or other information.

Network may be a wireless network a wired network or any combination of wireless network and wired network. For example network may include one or more of a fiber optics network a passive optical network a cable network a telephony network an Internet network a satellite network e.g. operating in Band C Band Ku or Band Ka a wireless LAN a Global System for Mobile Communication GSM a Personal Communication Service PCS a Personal Area Network PAN D AMPS Wi Fi Fixed Wireless Data IEEE 802.11a 802.11b 802.15.1 802.11n and 802.11g or any other wired or wireless network for transmitting and or receiving a data signal. In addition network may include without limitation telephone line fiber optics IEEE Ethernet 802.3 a wide area network WAN a local area network LAN or a global network such as the Internet. Also network may support an Internet network a wireless communication network a cellular network or the like or any combination thereof. Network may further include one or any number of the exemplary types of networks mentioned above operating as a stand alone network or in cooperation with each other. Network may utilize one or more protocols of one or more network elements to which it is communicatively coupled. Network may translate to or from other protocols to one or more protocols of network devices. Although network is depicted as one network it should be appreciated that according to one or more embodiments network may comprise a plurality of interconnected networks such as for example a service provider network the Internet a broadcaster s network a cable television network corporate networks and home networks.

User devices transmitter receiver unit provider system and data storage may transmit and receive data to and from network representing broadcast content user request content parallel search queries parallel search responses and other data. The data may be transmitted and received utilizing a standard telecommunications protocol or a standard networking protocol. For example one embodiment may utilize Signaling System Number SS . In other embodiments the data may be transmitted and received utilizing Session Initiation Protocol SIP or H.323. In other embodiments the data may be transmitted and or received utilizing using Voice Over IP VOW . In other embodiments the data may be transmitted and or received using Voice Over LTE VoLTE or messaging protocols. Data may also be transmitted and or received using Wireless Application Protocol WAP Multimedia Messaging Service MMS Enhanced Messaging Service EMS Short Message Service SMS Global System for Mobile Communications GSM based systems Code Division Multiple Access CDMA based systems Transmission Control Protocol Internet TCP IP Protocols or other protocols and systems suitable for transmitting and receiving broadcast or parallel search data. Data may be transmitted and received wirelessly or may utilize cabled network or telecom connections such as an Ethernet RJ45 Category 5 Ethernet connection a fiber connection a traditional phone wireline connection a cable connection or other wired network connection. Network may use standard wireless protocols including IEEE 802.11a 802.11b and 802.11g. Network may also use protocols for a wired connection such as an IEEE Ethernet 802.3.

Transmitter receiver unit may be a repeater a microwave antenna a cellular tower or another network access device capable of providing connectivity between two different network mediums. Transmitter receiver may be capable of sending or receiving signals via a mobile network a paging network a cellular network a satellite network or a radio network. Transmitter receiver may provide connectivity to one or more wired networks and may be capable of receiving signals on one medium such as a wired network and transmitting the received signals on a second medium such as a wireless network.

Provider system transmitter receiver and data storage may include one or more processors not shown for recording transmitting receiving and storing data. Although network elements transmitter receiver and data storage are depicted as individual elements it should be appreciated that the contents of one or more of a network elements transmitter receiver and data storage may be combined into fewer or greater numbers of devices and may be connected to additional devices not depicted in . Furthermore the one or more devices may be local remote or a combination thereof of network elements transmitter receiver and data storage .

Data storage may be network accessible storage and may be local remote or a combination thereof to provider system and or network elements . Data storage may utilize a redundant array of inexpensive disks RAID tape disk a storage area network SAN an internet small computer systems interface iSCSI SAN a Fibre Channel SAN a common Internet File System CIFS network attached storage NAS a network file system NFS or other computer accessible storage. In one or more embodiments Data storage may be a database such as an Oracle database a Microsoft SQL Server database a DB database a MySQL database a Sybase database an object oriented database a hierarchical database or other database. Data storage may utilize flat file structures for storage of data.

Provider system may comprise IMS based core equipment and may provide to a calling party a video Ring Back Tone vRBT resulting from personal data interchange. The vRBT may be based on user generated content. Provider system may be operated by one or more providers of telephony services. Provider system may be operated by one or more providers of cable services. Network elements may comprise one or more modules as will be described with reference to .

With reference to an exemplary procedure for generating a vRBT using personal data interchanged video content from vCard video tag and from NFC may include the following Party A may share video content with Party B. The content may be shared over network or may be directly shared using NFC hardware software if user devices and are NFC capable. For example Party A may send the video content to Party B in an email or other electronic communication. The video content may be attached to a vCard which may contain party A s contact information. The term vCard may refer to a file format standard for electronic business cards. vCards may be attached to e mail messages but also may be exchanged on the internet or using instant messaging. vCards may contain name and address information phone numbers e mail addresses URLs logos photographs audio clips and video content. The video content may be directly attached to the vCard as a file. The video content may be a video tag or link to a website that streams the video such as YouTube.

The video content may be from a variety of sources. For example the video content may be user generated content UGC . The video content may have been created by party A. In another example the video content may have been created by a third party or party A may have previously purchased the video content. The video content may be one or more video clips capable of being played on a video equipped user device. A video equipped user device may include a smartphone a tablet computer a PDA a cellphone a laptop computer a desktop computer and other devices capable of play video content.

Party B may receive the video content from party A. If the video content was received as an attachment to a vCard in an email Party B may import export the contact information the video clip or video tag by using an application. For example the attached video content may be retrieved using an email application program such as Outlook Import and Export Wizard and or a tool from a provider service channel such as provider . For example Party B may use one or more software applications on device to extract the video content or video tag.

User interface module may be configured to allow party B to upload or transmit the video content to Provider system . User interface module may provide a graphical user interface. The graphical user interface may be provided as a mobile application on one or more user devices such as party B s user device or party A s user device . User interface module may be provide one or more websites where a party can upload video content.

User interface module may transmit the video content to vRBT module . The video content may include one or more identifiers that identify the party that created or owns the video content. In this case if party A created the video content or owns the video content the identifiers may identify party A using a caller ID telephony number name physical address email address account number or other identifying information. vRBT module may create one or more vRBT clips that can be played on a video equipped user device. The one or more vRBT clips may be based on the received video content.

In an alternative embodiment party A may directly upload the video content to Provisioning system via interface module . Party A may use user interface module to assign the video content to one or more other users using identifying information such as caller IDs or telephony numbers.

vRBT module may be configured to create one or more vRBT clips based on the received video content. vRBT module may create one or more vRBT clips using the video content received from party B or party A . The one or more vRBT clips may be short video segments designed to be played on a video enabled user device such as party B device when party B places a video call. vRBT module may set the length of the vRBT clip based on predetermined limitations. For example vRBT module may be configured to automatically set the length for a vRBT clip to 30 seconds. Shorter or longer time limits may be used depending on system needs. The length may be designated by party B or party A via user interface module . For example user interface module may present party A or B with a graphical user interface that allows them to edit the length of the vRBT clip based on the video content. If the video content is 1 minute long party A or B may be able to select or highlight which portion or portions of the video content to designate as the vRBT. Party A or B may be able to select or highlight two separate 10 second segments of the video content and vRBT module may then combine the two selected segments into one 20 second vRBT clip.

vRBT module may create multiple vRBT clips from the same video content. For example party B may upload the 1 minute video content and create three different vRBT clips from it using the process described above. The first may be 20 seconds long the second 30 seconds long and the third may be the full 1 minute. vRBT module may automatically create one vRBT clip that is the same length as the received video content.

Subscriber profile module may update a vRBT subscriber profile for party A and or party B based on the one or more vRBT clips. Subscriber profile module may comprise one or more vRBT subscriber profiles. A vRBT subscriber profile may comprise data relating to a subscriber such as Party A or Party B . A subscriber may be an individual or entity that subscribes to telephony services. A subscriber may be an individual or entity that subscribes to cable services. A subscriber may be an individual or entity that subscribes to internet services or wireless telephony services or a combination of the above.

Control module may be configured to control the operations and manage the resources used by user interface module vRBT module subscriber profile module verification module and playback module . Control module may determine that vRBT module module has prepared the one or more vRBT clips. Control module may cause subscriber profile module to associate the one or more vRBT clips with a vRBT subscriber profile based on identifiers from the video content for the vRBT clip. In this example because party A originally sent the video content to party B the vRBT clip may include party A s caller ID thus designating party A as the original owner or creator of the video content. Subscriber profile module may associate party A s vRBT subscriber profile with the vRBT clip. Party A may have multiple telephony numbers or lines associated with his vRBT subscriber profile e.g. work line personal line . Party A may have a separate vRBT subscriber profile for each telephony number. Subscriber profile module may associate the vRBT clip with all of party A s vRBT subscriber profiles. Subscriber profile module may associate only one of party A s subscriber profiles with the vRBT clip. This may be based on input from party A or another party . The vRBT clip may be stored in data storage and linked to party A s vRBT subscriber profile by subscriber profile module .

For example referring to vRBT subscriber profile module may associate two vRBT clips vRBT  and vRBT  with party A s vRBT subscriber profile . Party A s vRBT subscriber profile may include entries with pointers to where each vRBT clip is stored.

Subscriber profile module may also assign the one or more vRBT clips to one or more caller IDs email addresses telephony numbers or other caller identifiers. For example because party B uploaded the video content originally owned by party A subscriber profile module may assign the vRBT clip to any incoming video calls from party B to party A using party B s caller ID. Thus in the future if party B places a video call to party A the vRBT clip may be played on party B s device until party A answers the call or the call goes to voicemail as will be described below. Subscriber profile module may assign the vRBT clip to multiple subscribers or multiple caller IDs even if the caller IDs are not associated with subscribers .

For example referring again to subscriber profile module may update party A s vRBT subscriber profile to assign vRBT  to contact 123 456 7890 shown under . In vRBT  has been assigned to three contacts. vRBT  has been assigned to two contacts.

In another exemplary embodiment party B may desire to share the video content with other users. Party B may indicate this using user interface module . If the video content is to be shared subscriber profile module may associate the vRBT clip with party B s vRBT subscriber profile and assign it to other caller IDs that may be designated by party B. For example party B may instruct the provisioning system to share the vRBT with party C. Subscriber profile module may then assign the vRBT clip to party C in party B s vRBT subscriber profile. If party B does not already have a vRBT subscriber profile subscriber profile module may create one for him. Thereafter if party C places a video call to party B the vRBT clip may be played on party C s user device before party B answers.

Party B may initiate a video call with Party A. The video call may be setup via SIP signaling using network and provider system . Provider system may receive one or more signals indicating that party B is initiating a video call with party A. Verification module may retrieve party A s vRBT subscriber profile and determine if any vRBT clips are assigned to party B based on party B s calling information. Party B s calling information may include a caller ID telephony number email address or other identifiying information.

Verification module may determine whether party B has a video equipped device. If party B s device is equipped to play videos then verification module may signal playback module to stream the correct vRBT clip to party B s user device . Party B may then see the vRBT clip played on his user device while he waits for party A to answer the video call ignore the call or send the call to voicemail.

If verification module determines that party B does not have a video equipped device then playback module may stream an aRBT instead based on the audio codecs in the SDP.

If Party A s vRBT subscriber profile includes a vRBT clip assigned to party B s caller ID playback module may retrieve the one or more vRBT clips from data storage . Playback module may determine the right format to play back the vRBT clip based on the video specification in the Session Description Protocol SDP associated with the video call initiation between party B and party A. Playback module may negotiate the correct video codec for playing back the one or more vRBT clips.

Thus for example referring to if vRBT subscriber profile is party A s vRBT subscriber profile and a video call from telephony number 987 654 3210 is placed to party A s device playback module may check party A s vRBT subscriber profile module and determine that vRBT  has been assigned to the contact 987 654 3210. Playback module may retrieve vRBT  from the appropriate database shown in column and play the clip vRBT  on the calling device while the caller waits for party A to answer ignore the call or send the call to voicemail. Playback module may stream the vRBT clip to party B s device for a predetermined period of time. If party A does not answer the call within the predetermined period of time playback module may stop streaming the vRBT clip. If party A chooses to ignore the call deny the call or send it to voicemail playback module may stop streaming the vRBT clip.

At block the provisioning system may receive video content. The video content may be received from one or more user devices connected to provisioning system or another provider system via one or more networks such as network as shown in . The video content may include a variety of formats. For example the video content may be one or more digital video files. The video content may be a video tag. The video content may be a link to a website that streams videos. The video content may be user generated. The video content may have been previously purchased. The video content may be received from another provider system.

User interface module may be configured to allow a party to upload or transmit the video content to Provider system . User interface module may be a graphical user interface. User interface module may provide the graphical user interface as a mobile application on one or more user devices. User interface module may be provide the graphical user interface on a website. The video content may be sent to vRBT module . The video content may include one or more identifiers that identify the party that created the video content or that owns the video content . The identifiers may include for example a caller ID telephony number or email address of a party. In the example in if party A created the video content or owns the video content the identifiers may include party A s caller ID or other identifying information. Method may proceed to block .

At block vRBT module may create a vRBT clip that can be played on a video equipped user device. vRBT module may be configured to create one or more vRBT clips based on the received video content. The one or more vRBT clips may be short segments designed to be played on a video enabled user device such as party B device in when party B places a video call. vRBT module may set the length of the vRBT clip based on predetermined settings. vRBT module may set the length of the vRBT clip based on input from party B or party A . vRBT module may be configured to automatically set the length of the vRBT clip to a pre set length such as 10 seconds. Other pre set time limits may be used. Method may proceed to block .

At block subscriber profile module may associate the one or more vRBT clips with one or more vRBT subscriber profiles. A vRBT subscriber profile may be accessed by subscriber profile module . If a subscriber or user uploaded the video content that party may designate the user or subscriber that owns the video. The subscriber profile module may store the vRBT clips in data storage and link the stored vRBT clips to one or more vRBT subscriber profiles shown in and of . Subscriber profile module may update the vRBT subscriber profile to include the name of the vRBT clip. Party A or Party B may name the clip using user interface module . vRBT subscriber profile module may automatically name the vRBT clip.

Once a vRBT clip has been associated with a subscriber profile in the future when subscriber module or other modules accesses that subscriber s profile profile may indicate that the subscriber has one or more vRBT clips for potential playback when that subscriber receives a video call. Method may proceed to block .

At block subscriber profile module may assign the one or more vRBT clips based on the identifiers or based on user selections. The vRBT clips may be assigned to one or more caller IDs email addresses and or telephony numbers associated with other subscribers or users shown in of . Once a vRBT clip has been assigned to a certain caller ID if a party with that caller ID attempts to place a video call to the subscriber the vRBT clip may be played on the calling party s device before the called party answers. Subscriber profile module may assign the vRBT clip to multiple subscribers or multiple caller IDs even if the caller IDs are not associated with subscribers . In other embodiments once a vRBT clip has been associated with a subscriber profile provider system may notify the subscriber that this has occurred. The notification may be sent as an email SMS text message or other electronic notification. The notification may request the recipient subscriber to confirm whether the vRBT clip should be assigned. Method may proceed to block .

At block provider system may receive video call information. The video call may be initiated from one or more subscribers. The video call may be initiated by a user of a third party provider and then sent to a subscriber of provider system . The video call may be setup via SIP signalling using network and provider system . The video call may be routed through one or more gateway routers. In the exemplary embodiment shown in provider system may receive one or more signals indicating that party B is initiating a video call with party A. Method may proceed to block .

At block verification module may retrieve vRBT subscriber profile data for the called party. Verification module may determine if any vRBT clips are assigned to the calling party based on the calling party s caller ID telephony number and or email address. If the called party s vRBT subscriber profile includes a vRBT clip assigned to the calling party verification module may signal playback module to retrieve the one or more vRBT clips assigned to the calling party from data storage . Method may proceed to block . So for example referring to and if party B is calling party A from a video equipped device having the number 987 654 3210 verification module would retrieve party A s vRBT subscriber profile and determine that vRBT  has been assigned to party B s telephony number based on entries and .

At block Playback module may provision the one or more vRBT clips based on the determination by verification module . Playback module may determine the right format to play back the vRBT clip based on the video specification in the Session Description Protocol SDP associated with the video call initiation between the two or more user devices. Playback module may negotiate the correct video codec for playing back the one or more vRBT clips.

Verification module may determine whether the calling party has a video equipped device. If the calling party s device is equipped to play videos then verification module will signal playback module to stream the correct vRBT clip to the calling party s device as a ring tone. Playback module will then stream the vRBT clip to the calling party s device while he waits for the called party to answer the call. Referring to the previous example playback module may stream vRBT  to party B s phone as the video ring back tone. The vRBT clip may be played for a predetermined amount of time. If the vRBT clip ends before the called party answers then the playback module may play the vRBT clip again from the beginning. The vRBT clip may play until the calling party ends the call attempt. The vRBT clip may be played until the call is sent to the called party s voicemail. The vRBT clip may be played until the called party ignores the call. Method may then proceed to block .

As shown in party A and party B may be communicatively connected to each other and to Provider IMS network via one or more networks such as an internet network. Network elements may include one or more call session control functions CSCF . These may include one or more Proxy CSCFs Serving CSCFs and Interrogating CSCFs. These may act to process SIP signaling packets in provider IMS network as is known in the art. HSS may act with network elements and TAS to provide telephony services to Party A and Party B.

TAS may include a subscriber profile for every subscriber to telephony services provided by Provider IMS network . Each subscriber profile in TAS may indicate whether that subscribers profile is associated with one or more vRBT services.

MRF module may be hardware configured to convert one or more vRBTs into IP packets and play them back to the calling party device such as when party B calls party A as described in conjunction with . MRF Module may be communicatively coupled to one or more SBC gateways via one or more connections . Connection may correspond to step in .

TQS may comprise one or more vRBT subscriber profiles such as the exemplary profile shown in . If TQS receives an indication that for example party B is placing a video call to party A via provider IMS network TQS may determine which if any vRBT clips should be played on party B s device retrieve the appropriate clips from PRBT CMS and provide them to MRF . TQS may include other subscriber profile information such as when to play each vRBT clip or for how long.

PRBT CMS may act as the main server for the vRBT provisioning service. It may receive and store the vRBT clips received from one or more subscribers or parties such as party A or party B which may be received via connections and . It may control the operation of TQS and or MRF Module . TQS MRF and PRBT CMS may be communicatively coupled via one or more HTTP XML connections.

If for example Party B places a video call to Party A via provider IMS network TAS will determine if party A and party B have video equipped devices and provide one or more signals to PRBT CMS TQS and or MRF to begin the vRBT provisioning process as described with reference to .

In as opposed to system in the telephony services are provided by cable networks instead of provider IMS network . Thus if party B places a video call to party A the video call will be setup and handled using one or more network elements and servers in cable network such as TAS . The vRBT services will be separately provided by provider IMS network similar to how the vRBT services were provided in .

It is to be appreciated that the set of instructions e.g. the software that configures the computer operating system to perform the operations described above may be contained on any of a wide variety of media or medium as desired. Further any data that is processed by the set of instructions might also be contained on any of a wide variety of media or medium. That is the particular medium i.e. the memory in the processing machine utilized to hold the set of instructions and or the data used in the invention may take on any of a variety of physical forms or transmissions for example. Illustratively the medium may be in the form of paper paper transparencies a compact disk a DVD an integrated circuit a hard disk a floppy disk an optical disk a magnetic tape a RAM a ROM a PROM a EPROM a wire a cable a fiber communications channel a satellite transmissions or other remote transmission as well as any other medium or source of data that may be read by a computer.

In the preceding specification various preferred embodiments have been described with references to the accompanying drawings. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereto and additional embodiments may be implemented without departing from the broader scope of invention as set forth in the claims that follow. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than restrictive sense.

