---

title: User application initiated telephony
abstract: Systems and methods for initiating telephony calls are presented. In one example, a user selection of a desired application item is received at a computing device and a dial number associated with the desired application item is transmitted from the computing device to a wireless headset. The dial number is received at the wireless headset and a call is responsively initiated by transmitting the dial number from the wireless headset to a mobile phone device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08948691&OS=08948691&RS=08948691
owner: Plantronics, Inc.
number: 08948691
owner_city: Santa Cruz
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131219
---
This application is a continuation application of co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 044 802 filed Mar. 10 2011 titled User Application Initiated Telephony the entirety of which is incorporated herein by reference for all purposes.

The convergence of computers voice communications and the Internet has revolutionized the manner and speed by which people are able to communicate. People today have the capacity to work and collaborate using a variety of electronic devices and applications. However as the number of devices and applications a person typically uses for collaboration has increased so has the possibility that a person working within a given collaborative application will wish to switch modes of communication from text based to actual voice conversation. For example a user working in an email social software or sales force automation SFA application upon reading new information about a topic person or event may wish to transition from consuming information or text communication to a voice call with another individual or individuals to take action related to that content or text communication.

In the prior art the user must physically locate his phone and or manually initiate the call provided there is an existing integration between that application and the PBX or via peer to peer VoIP calling infrastructure. For many applications this simply does not exist leaving the user to manually find pickup a phone and initiate calling which requires the user to shift their attention away from the context and application they were working in to continue the workflow by switching to another voice related application or to another device altogether. This process is inconvenient disruptive to attention focus and time consuming in many instances. As a result there is a need for improved methods and apparatuses for initiating telephony calls.

Methods and apparatuses for initiating telephony calls are disclosed. The following description is presented to enable any person skilled in the art to make and use the invention. Descriptions of specific embodiments and applications are provided only as examples and various modifications will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art. The general principles defined herein may be applied to other embodiments and applications without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Thus the present invention is to be accorded the widest scope encompassing numerous alternatives modifications and equivalents consistent with the principles and features disclosed herein. For purpose of clarity details relating to technical material that is known in the technical fields related to the invention have not been described in detail so as not to unnecessarily obscure the present invention.

In the prior art a user at a PC utilizing an application such as an email customer relations management CRM or social software application wishing to transition to voice communications must physically locate and pick up their mobile phone find the right screen and click once or twice or three times in order to dial unless that application is already directly integrated into a back end voice infrastructure. For example where a PC user is utilizing an email application and is reading an email and wishes to transition to voice communications with the email sender the PC user must physically locate their mobile phone and initiate the call. This workflow takes the user out of the context they were in e.g. the PC based email application . In contrast the systems and methods described herein advantageously allow the user to stay within the embedded context of their PC based application and to simply click on the mouse they are already using to initiate the call using the mobile telephony infrastructure without ever having to physically find or touch their mobile phone.

In one example a method for initiating a mobile phone call includes receiving a user selection of a desired application item at a computing device and transmitting a dial number associated with the desired application item from the computing device to a wireless headset utilizing a first wireless link. The method includes receiving the dial number at the wireless headset and responsively initiating a call by transmitting the dial number from the wireless headset to a mobile phone device utilizing a second wireless link.

In one example a method for initiating a mobile phone call utilizing a wireless headset includes receiving a dial number at a wireless headset from a computing device transmitted over a first wireless link where the dial number is transmitted from the computing device responsive to a user action at the computing device. The wireless headset transmits an outbound call command to a mobile phone device over a second wireless link where the outbound call command includes the dial number and is configured to initiate a call by the mobile phone device to the dial number.

In one example a system for initiating a mobile phone call includes a computing device a wireless headset and a mobile phone device. The computing device is adapted to receive a user selection of a desired application item and transmit an associated dial number over a first wireless link. The wireless headset is adapted to receive the associated dial number from the computing device via the first wireless link and further adapted to initiate an outbound call by transmitting the associated dial number over a second wireless link. The mobile phone device is adapted to receive the associated dial number over the second wireless link make the outbound call and conduct the outbound call utilizing the wireless headset.

In one example a headset that is paired with a mobile phone e.g. a cell phone operates as the communications bridge for outbound dialing from a user application running on a PC. In one example the user application is a business application or any other type of PC user application the user may be using at the PC which is not a standalone telephony application designed to make and receive calls. The user application utilizes a call plug in applet configured to allow the PC user to click on an inbound communications or record in a customer relationship management CRM or enterprise resource planning ERP or other business application from another person to initiate a call out by the mobile phone. In one example the plug in applet is a call initiation application.

In one implementation the system includes a Bluetooth USB dongle plugged into a PC USB port or alternatively a Bluetooth radio in the PC that can communicate with the headset or other communications device external to the PC itself. The system includes a Bluetooth headset supported by the dongle or having firmware that obviates the need for a dongle. The PC includes a client side application that has some form of contact information that can be correlated to a mobile phone number. This could be an email address or other data.

In operation the user application running on the PC allows the user to click on a communications from another user such as an incoming email to initiate a call back to that person using the mobile phone infrastructure and the connectivity to the mobile phone. Alternately the user application could simply have a person s email or other contact information noted in a record such as a CRM or ERP application that can be used to link to the person s phone number residing in a contacts database on the PC or on the mobile phone itself.

In one implementation the PC is running a Unified Communications UC CRM or other business application such as a resident application or a web browser based application that utilizes the call initiation application plug in configured to present the user upon a user action such as a right click with the choice of phone numbers to select. Upon selecting a number to call the system initiates the call through the headset to the mobile phone. Muting or terminating the call is enabled through the headset or via a visual display on the screen that is part of the PC side application. The visual display would also allow for conferencing a 3party into the call. In a further implementation the PC is running a UC or business application that does not expose client side interfaces. The PC is also running a call initiation application that will interface with a corresponding server side application which in turn communicates with the UC server side application. In either of these implantation the PC application email client ERP client the CRM client must be running and have available interfaces for the call initiation application to integrate with. Additionally the embedded context will have information available to the call initiation application to deduce extract dialable telephone numbers or one provided by the user so that the call initiation application will be capable of making an outbound call.

In one system configuration a wireless headset is paired with a mobile phone. The wireless headset is also paired with a wireless communications dongle on a client PC. The client PC is running a business application s that provide s interface s to extend and extract telephone number information from the context. For instance interfaces exist to integrate with Microsoft Outlook to extend the options when the user right clicks on an email. Subsequently telephone number information can be extracted from the contact information of the email sender. The client PC is running a call initiation add in to the business application. The client PC is running a UC or a business application that provides interface s . In addition the UC or business application will also provide interface s for remote call control. The client PC is running the call initiation application that will interface with the UC or business application.

In one method of operation utilizing this system the wireless headset is paired and within range of both the mobile phone and the PC dongle. The PC business application is running. In an implementation where presence information is reported a UC client application is also running. The user receives an email and would like to immediately call the sender of the email or the email phone number contained in a record for another business application. The user will right click on the said email or record. The user is presented with telephone number options to contact the sender. The user clicks on one of the choices such as Mobile or Office . The call initiation application add in will initiate an outbound mobile call as follows to the selected phone number.

Using USB HID Universal Serial Bus Human Interface Device communications the call initiation application add in will send an establish an outbound call request along with the telephone number to the dongle. Using the ACL channel between the wireless headset and the dongle the dongle will send an establish an outbound call request with a configured AT command along with the telephone number. The wireless headset will react to this command and send a make call request using the standard Bluetooth hands free profile HFP .

The outbound mobile call is established and the wireless headset provides an earcon for this event. Using the ACL channel between the wireless headset and dongle the wireless headset will send a configured AT command to the dongle. In a presence reporting implementation the dongle will then translate the command message and inform the call initiation application running on the PC that an outbound mobile call has been established. The call initiation application will then notify the UC presence server that currently the telephony presence state of the user should be altered to On a Call . The state can be presented either as Busy or Unavailable if On a Call is not one of the supported presence states available on the particular UC application.

When the user terminates the call either by pressing the talk button on the wireless headset or End on the mobile phone using ACL channel between the wireless headset and dongle the wireless headset sends a configured AT command to the dongle notifying the dongle that the call on the mobile phone has been terminated. The dongle then translates this message and relays it to the call initiation application running on the PC. The call initiation application will then change the telephony presence state of the user to Available .

If the user desires to mute the call once initiated then the user can push the mute button on the headset or a mute soft button provided by the call initiation application. If the user desires to create a 3 way conference call after selecting the first number to be dialed and connected the user can select another person from within their email application particularly if there are multiple people included in the email communication . This would add the second person to the call after the call was initiated with the first person by dialing the second person in a manner similar to the first person and connecting the calls.

Personal computer may for example be a notebook computer desktop computer or PDA type device. Mobile phone is in wireless communication with cellular network and can make outgoing calls via the cellular network . Mobile phone may receive incoming calls from the public switched telephone network PSTN through cellular network . A call initiation application residing on headset provides for seamless initiation of a call using mobile phone following a user action at user application on PC .

User interface includes a key input . Key input includes a hookswitch function volume up input and volume down input . The user interface may also include one or more output interfaces typical to headsets such as LED indicators or some form of a display. The speaker may also be used as an interface output.

Bluetooth module includes a transceiver having a transmitter and a receiver . In the present example Bluetooth module receives and transmits a wireless signal utilizing the Bluetooth protocol Hands Free Profile. The wireless signal transmitted by transmitter includes outbound audio and Hands Free Profile command messages received from controller . Inbound audio and control data is received by receiver and sent to controller . Audio encoder decoder is used for processing a digital audio signal and an analog audio signal as known in the art.

The Bluetooth transceiver is operable to simultaneously form Bluetooth ACL and SCO links with PC and mobile phone . Controller is operable to receive user input commands from user interface and convert these commands to Hands Free Profile digital command messages. In one example controller is part of a Bluetooth chip set. These Hands Free Profile digital command messages are sent to Bluetooth module for wireless transmission using Bluetooth module . Controller also receives inbound audio or audio files for output by speaker following decoding by audio encoder decoder . User interface can be any combinations of visual interfaces tactile interfaces and or an audio interface that allow the user to input commands.

Memory stores a call initiation application executed by controller to perform call initiation functions as described herein. Such call initiation functions may be initiated by the user at PC . In one example the call initiation application enables the headset to switch to enter a call initiation mode where during the call initiation mode the headset is configured to receive a transmitted dial number responsive to an input action at a PC from a headset user. Following receipt of the dial number the headset transmits an initiate make call command to the mobile phone including the dial number. Memory is also used to store digital data and can take a variety of well known forms such as flash memory or memory integrated with controller .

In operation referring to and together a PC user at user application may initiate a call to a desired contact at a cellular mobile phone via cellular network telephone via PSTN or telephone via PBX . Alternatively the user may conduct a call with several participants simultaneously as in the case of a conference call.

In order to initiate the call in one example a user selection of a desired application item is received at a user application running on PC . A dial number associated with the desired application item is transmitted from the PC to the wireless headset utilizing a wireless link. The dial number is received at the wireless headset and a call is initiated by transmitting the dial number from the wireless headset to the mobile phone utilizing a wireless link.

In one example receiving a user selection of a desired application item at the PC includes receiving the user selection within a non telephony user application running on the PC . For example the non telephony user application may be an email application and the user selection includes selecting a received email if the user wishes to dial the sender of the received email.

In one example receiving a user selection of a desired application item includes receiving a first user selection of a displayed application item associated with a desired contact entity. One or more contact numbers associated with the desired contact entity are retrieved and displayed to the user. For example the displayed application item is an email and retrieving one or more contact numbers includes retrieving data from a contacts folder. The user then selects the desired contact number from the displayed choices. For example several potential phone numbers are retrieved from the contacts folder corresponding to the sender of the selected received email.

The PC is adapted to receive a user selection of a desired application item and transmit an associated dial number over a first wireless link. The wireless headset is adapted to receive the associated dial number from the PC via the first wireless link and further adapted to initiate an outbound call by transmitting a call initiation command with the associated dial number over a second wireless link. The mobile phone is adapted to receive the associated dial number over the second wireless link and make the outbound call over a cellular connection . The headset wearer conducts the outbound call utilizing the wireless headset with a call participant at telephone .

In this example BT headset is wirelessly connected to a USB Bluetooth module via a Bluetooth link. The devices in communicate using the Bluetooth Headset Profile in multipoint mode. USB Bluetooth module includes a Bluetooth audio gateway in communication with a USB interface . USB interface is inserted into a USB interface of PC . PC executes call initiation application . The call initiation application operates to handle communication with the USB Bluetooth module through an application programming interface API with the associated user application also being executed on computer PC . User application may for example be any user application from which a user may select an item to initiate a call to a desired individual.

The Bluetooth audio gateway and BT headset provide serial port emulation. The serial port emulation is used to transport user data including AT commands from the BT headset to the Bluetooth audio gateway . The AT commands are parsed by the Bluetooth audio gateway . Bluetooth audio gateway receives AT command messages received at USB Bluetooth module . In a presence implementation these AT command messages are vendor specific commands and are translated to corresponding presence information.

BT headset is also wirelessly connected to a mobile phone via a Bluetooth link. When paired and in range BT headset maintains an ACL link with USB BT module and an ACL link with a mobile phone . Mobile phone includes a BT audio gateway . Bluetooth audio gateway is the gateway for both input audio and output audio. The BT headset acts as remote audio input and output mechanism for the Bluetooth audio gateway . The profile stack for the Headset Profile illustrating the protocols and entities regarding how a headset and audio gateway interact to effect a wireless connection between the devices is known in the art. Mobile phone establishes an active Bluetooth audio SCO link with the BT headset .

In one example USB BT module is a dongle attached to a USB port of PC that allows software applications to be used. In this example the USB BT module runs a Bluetooth stack optimized for audio performance. USB BT module is any base unit including dongles operating vendor specific firmware connected to PC . The base unit may have the capability to dock a headset for recharging of the headset battery. Alternatively USB BT module may be integrated with PC .

When the user wishes to initiate a call the user initiates a make call action at PC . At step the PC issues a call initiation command message to headset instructing headset to initiate a call. The call initiation message sent from the PC to the headset instructing the headset to enter call initiation mode is sent over the ACL link. At step the headset issues a call initiation command message to mobile phone . At step the mobile phone issues an open audio SCO link command to the headset .

In one example the headset initiates outgoing voice calls by transmitting the dial number i.e. destination phone number to the audio gateway at the mobile phone . To begin the call set up headset initiates a Service Level Connection establishment between the headset and the mobile phone and sends a proper ATDdd. . .dd command to the mobile phone . The mobile phone then begins the call establishment procedure using the dial number received from headset and issues a CIEV result code with a value callsetup 2 to notify the headset that the call set up has been successfully initiated.

If an audio connection is not already established the mobile phone establishes the proper audio connection and routes the audio paths of the outgoing call to the headset immediately after commencement of the ongoing call set up procedure. Following call connection the mobile phone issues a CIEV result code with a value indicating call 1 .

At step ongoing audio communication over the open SCO link occurs between mobile phone and headset . At step headset issues a call status message to PC indicating a call is ongoing using mobile phone . At step headset sends a call terminate command to the mobile phone over the SCO link with the mobile phone responsive to a user call termination action. The mobile phone then terminates the SCO link between the mobile phone and the headset . At step headset issues a call status message to PC indicating the call has been terminated.

At block the selected dial number is transmitted from the PC to the headset in a make call command. At block the headset transmits a call initiate command message to the mobile phone. At block an outbound call is made by the mobile phone to the dial number. At block the mobile phone connects the outgoing call. At block conversation is conducted using the headset.

Presence information is also reported when the user becomes available . Once the audio communication channel between the mobile phone device and the wireless headset is terminated e.g. because the user hangs up the call messaging indicating the user has terminated a call is transmitted from the wireless headset to the PC. The PC translates the messaging to a presence state indicating the user is available and reports the presence state to the presence server. In one example the call status messaging is dependent upon an audio communication channel status between the wireless headset and the mobile phone.

In the system shown in PC transmits and receives presence information to and from a unified communications UC presence server in a client server relationship. PC includes a presence application . In the example shown in data is transmitted between PC and UC presence server via Internet .

The PC is paired with the BT headset and in communication with a UC presence server . In a Bluetooth implementation PC receives over a Bluetooth ACL link an AT command message indicating a call has been established or terminated between headset and cellular mobile phone . The presence application translates the AT command message to an associated presence state and send the associated presence state to UC presence server which in turn may modify the user presence state at the UC presence server .

Referring to a simplified block diagram of PC in one example is illustrated. PC includes a presence application interfacing with a client side UC application having exposed client side interfaces. illustrates one example configuration for reporting presence information from the presence application to the unified communications presence server via the UC application . UC application accepts presence state changes from presence application and reports the presence state to UC presence server . In further example presence application and client side UC application may be integrated into a single presence application. Client side UC application transmits and receives presence data to and from UC presence server providing an interface to alter the presence state of the user as described herein. In addition the UC application may also provide interface s for remote call control.

Client side UC application may for example be a commercial presence UC application such as IBM Lotus Sametime 8.0 Microsoft Office Communicator running in conjunction with Office Communications Services 2007 or other similar UC application. UC presence server may for example be an IBM Lotus Sametime Server where the client side UC application is also IBM Lotus Sametime. Presence application operates to output the user presence state.

Referring to a simplified block diagram of PC in a further example is illustrated. illustrates a further example configuration for reporting presence information from a presence application to a unified communications presence server . In the example shown in PC includes a presence application and a UC application . In this example UC application does not expose client side interfaces and presence application cannot alter the user s presence state. The UC application will only accept presence state changes from the UC presence server . Presence application interfaces with a server side presence application running on a presence server which in turn communicates with a UC server side application running on UC presence server . The presence application reports presence information such as the user presence state to presence server which in turn reports the presence information to UC presence server .

At step the headset initiates connection establishment with a PC to form an ACL link. At step the headset initiates connection establishment with a mobile phone to form an ACL link. Both the ACL link with the PC and the mobile phone are simultaneously active.

When the user wishes to initiate a call the user initiates a make call action at PC . At step the PC issues a call initiation command message to headset instructing headset to initiate a call. The call initiation message sent from the PC to the headset instructing the headset to enter call initiation mode is sent over the ACL link. At step the headset issues a call initiation command message to mobile phone .

At step the headset issues an open audio SCO link command to the mobile phone . At step ongoing audio communication over the open SCO link occurs between mobile phone and headset .

At step headset issues a call status message to PC indicating a call is ongoing using mobile phone . For example call status message is an AT command message to PC using the ACL link indicating that an audio SCO link has been opened between the mobile phone and BT headset . The AT command message content may be vendor specific and may indicate that an audio SCO link is open or simply that the user is busy or unavailable. For example the presence state is reported as on a mobile phone call . In further examples the presence state may be reported on a more generic level such as on a call or equivalent language or even more simply as unavailable or busy .

The AT command message is translated to a presence state by the presence application running on PC . At step the presence state translated from the AT command message is sent from the PC to a UC presence server . For example where the SCO link has been opened the reported presence state may be on a mobile phone call on a call busy or other similar state indicating the user is unavailable. The path with which the UC presence server receives the presence state may vary depending on the particular system architecture as described above in reference to . At step ongoing audio communication over the open SCO link occurs between mobile phone and BT headset once the audio SCO link is opened.

At step headset sends a call terminate command to the mobile phone over the SCO link with the mobile phone responsive to a user call termination action. The mobile phone then terminates the SCO link between the mobile phone and the headset .

At step headset issues a call status message to PC indicating the call has been terminated. For example the call status message is an AT command message to PC over the ACL link indicating that the audio SCO link has been terminated between mobile phone and BT headset . This AT command message is translated to a presence state by the presence application at PC . At step the presence state translated from the AT command message is sent from the PC to the UC presence server . The presence state reported may be varied depending on the particular presence system implementation. In one example once the ongoing call with the mobile phone is terminated the user presence state is reported as available .

At block the user selection of the desired dial number is received. At block the selected dial number is transmitted from the PC to the headset in a make call command. At block the headset transmits a call initiate command message to the mobile phone. At block an outbound call is made by the mobile phone to the dial number. At block the mobile phone connects the outgoing call. At block conversation is conducted using the headset. At block a call activation message is sent from the headset to the PC that the outgoing call has been connected and is ongoing.

At block the call activation message is translated at the PC to an associated presence state. At block the presence state is sent to a presence server. The specific presence state reported may be varied depending on the particular presence system implementation. In one example the presence state is reported as on a mobile phone call . In further examples the presence state may be reported on a more generic level such as on a call or equivalent language or even more simply as unavailable or busy . Additional presence information may also be reported to the UC presence server. Methods and systems for headset derived presence are discussed in co pending and commonly assigned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 697 087 for Headset Derived Real Time Presence and Communication Systems and Methods filed on Apr. 5 2007 and U.S. Pat. No. 8 116 788 for Mobile Telephony Presence issued on Feb. 14 2012 which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties for all purposes.

At block a user action to terminate an ongoing call is received. For example the user may push the headset talk button or press the end button on the mobile phone. At block a call termination message is sent from the headset to the PC that an ongoing call has been terminated. At block the call termination message is translated to an associated presence state. At block the updated presence state is sent to the presence server. The presence state reported at block may be varied depending on the particular presence system implementation. In one example once the ongoing call with the mobile phone is terminated the user presence state is reported as available .

While the exemplary embodiments of the present invention are described and illustrated herein it will be appreciated that they are merely illustrative and that modifications can be made to these embodiments without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Thus the scope of the invention is intended to be defined only in terms of the following claims as may be amended with each claim being expressly incorporated into this Description of Specific Embodiments as an embodiment of the invention.

