---

title: Height adjustment device in fixture, and armrest device for chair provided with height adjustment device
abstract: An armrest device for a chair includes a lower support rod that rises at a side of a chair seat and has a tubular upper end portion; and an upper support cylinder that has an armrest provided in an upper end thereof, is externally fitted to the lower support rod so as to be slidable in an up-down direction, and has a plurality of engaging portions therein. The armrest is made height-adjustable with respect to the lower support rod by disposing the locking member and a biasing member at an upper end portion of the lower support rod and providing the rotating rod inside the lower support rod.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09603451&OS=09603451&RS=09603451
owner: OKAMURA CORPORATION
number: 09603451
owner_city: Kanagawa
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20130502
---
This is the U.S. National Phase Application under 35 U.S.C. 371 of International Patent Application No. PCT JP2013 062761 filed May 2 2013 which designated the United States and was published in a language other than English which claims the benefit of Japanese Patent Application No. 2012 105234filed on May 2 2012 and Japanese Patent Application No. 2012 232059 filed on Oct. 19 2012 all of them are incorporated by reference herein. The International Application was published in Japanese on Nov. 7 2013 as WO2013 165017 A1 under PCT Article 21 2 .

The present invention relates to a height adjustment device in a fixture and an armrest device for a chair provided with the height adjustment device.

There are the following types of devices A to C in height adjustment devices in related art armrest devices for a chair.

 A A device in which an upper support cylinder having an armrest provided at an upper end thereof is externally fitted to a tubular lower support rod rising at a side of a chair seat so as to be slidable in an up down direction a plurality of engaging portions are provided side by side in the up down direction in an inner surface of the lower support rod and a pin or a claw adapted to be selectively engaged with the plurality of engaging portions is moved by an extension portion or a lever body of an operating lever provided in the upper support cylinder for example refer to Patent Document 1 to 3 .

 B A device in which a plurality of engaging portions are provided side by side in an up down direction in an outer surface of a lower support rod and a claw of an operating lever provided on an upper support cylinder is selectively engaged with the plurality of engaging portions for example refer to Patent Document 4 .

 C A device in which a plurality of engaging portions are provided side by side in an up down direction in an extension portion of an operating lever and a pin provided so as to protrude from an inner surface of a lower support rod is adapted to be selectively engaged with the plurality of engaging portions for example refer to Patent Document 5 .

In the above types of devices A to C the extension portion of the operating lever should be formed so as to be elongated downward from a portion for pivotal attachment to the upper support cylinder the rotation radius of a tip of the extension portion becomes large and the tip of the extension portion is greatly rotated by the slight rotation of the operating lever. Thus it is difficult to precisely transmit the operation of the operating lever to the tip of the extension portion and the possibility of erroneous operation and a malfunction is high.

Particularly in the type of device C the engagement depth or disengagement distance between the plurality of engaging portions provided in the extension portion of the operating lever and the pin becomes significantly smaller in an engaging portion near the pivotal attachment portion than in an engaging portion near the tip of the extension portion. As a result a required rotational angle a required operating force or the like of the operating lever at the time of locking and unlocking fluctuates depending on the height of the armrest and the operability is bad.

In the above type of device B if the movement stroke of the movable member in the up down direction is made large the plurality of engaging portions are exposed to the outside and become unseemly.

In order to keep the engaging portions from being exposed to the outside the length of the upper support cylinder in the up down direction should be made large the length of the lower support rod in the up down direction should also be made large with this. As a result the whole armrest is enlarged and material costs are increased.

If the length of the up down direction of the whole armrest is made large the attachment position of the lower support rod to a main body of the chair is markedly low. As a result an attachment region is limited and the armrest is too conspicuous from a design point of view.

For that purpose it is preferable to keep the length of the whole armrest in the up down direction from being large even if the movement stroke is made large.

Additionally in all the above A B and C the armrest is lifted and lowered along a linear track. However in the case of a design in which the lower support rod and the upper support cylinder are curved the armrest is lifted and lowered in a curved track along the lower support rod and the upper support cylinder. In this case deviation is considered to occur in the engagement relationship between the extension portion or the lever body of the operating lever provided at the upper support cylinder and the engaging portion provided at the lower support rod and poor operation is caused.

The invention has been made in view of the above described circumstances in the related art and provides a height adjustment device in a fixture and an armrest device for a chair provided with the height adjustment device aimed at keeping a plurality of engaging portions from being exposed to the outside even if the movement stroke of a movable member is made large making an operation smooth using an operating lever provided at the movable member irrespective of the up down position or lifting and lowering track of the movable member and always lightly performing locking and unlocking operations in the same manner irrespective of the up down position of the movable member having little possibility of erroneous operation or malfunction.

A first aspect related to a height adjustment device in a fixture of the present invention includes a support a movable member that is mounted on the support so as to be movable in an up down direction has a plurality of engaging portions arranged side by side in the up down direction therein and extends in the up down direction a locking member that is provided in the support so as to be movable in a horizontal direction and immovable in the up down direction to a locking position where the locking member is selectively engaged with any one engaging portion of the movable member and to an unlocking position where the locking member is disengaged from the engaging portion biasing member that is provided at the support and biases the locking member toward the locking position an actuating member that is provided at the movable member is made movable in the up down direction with respect to the support and the locking member together with the movable member keeps an action portion which is slidable up and down with respect to the locking member engaged with the locking member even if being moved in the up down direction and makes the locking member movable in a direction of the unlocking position at any up down position and an operating member that is provided at the movable member and actuates the actuating member so as to move the locking member in the direction of the unlocking position via the actuating member.

According to such a configuration the locking member provided at the support is selectively engaged with the plurality of engaging portions provided inside the movable member. Accordingly the movable member can be held at an arbitrary height the plurality of engaging portions are not exposed to the outside even if the movement stroke of the movable member is made large and the appearance of a fixture to which the device is applied is improved.

The movable member is made liftable by actuating the actuating member with the operating lever provided at the movable member and moving the locking member provided at the support from the locking position to the unlocking position. By leaving a hand from the operating lever after the movable member is adjusted to an arbitrary height the locking member is pushed from the unlocking position to the locking position with the biasing force of the biasing member and is engaged with any one of the plurality of engaging portions of the movable member to lock the movable member at that height.

The actuating member keeps the action portion which is slidable up and down with respect to the locking member engaged with the locking member at any up down position where the actuating member is lifted and lowered together with the movable member and an operation using the operating lever can always be performed irrespective of the up down position of the movable member. Although the actuating member and the locking member are distributed and provided in the support and the movable member the engagement relationship between these actuating member and locking member is kept equal irrespective of the up down position of the movable member the interlocking operation of these actuating member and locking member is kept excellent and the operation using the operating lever provided at the movable member is made smooth.

A second aspect related to a height adjustment device in a fixture of the present invention includes a support a movable member that is mounted on the support so as to be movable in an up down direction has a plurality of engaging portions arranged side by side in the up down direction and extends in the up down direction a locking member that is provided at the support so as to be movable in a horizontal direction and immovable in the up down direction to a locking position where the locking member is selectively engaged with any one engaging portion of the movable member and to an unlocking position where the locking member is disengaged from the engaging portion biasing member that is provided at the support and biases the locking member toward the locking position a rotating rod that is parallel to the movable member is mounted on the movable member so as to be rotatable around an axis extending in the up down direction and is movable in the up down direction together with the movable member with respect to the support and the locking member an interlocking mechanism that interlocks the rotating rod and the locking member so that the locking member is moved in a direction of the unlocking position by the rotation of the rotating rod in one direction and an operating lever that is provided in the movable member and rotates the rotating rod around the axis extending in the up down direction.

According to such a configuration if the rotating rod is rotated around the axis directed to the up down direction by the operating lever provided at the movable member the locking member is moved to the unlocking position against the biasing force of the biasing member via the interlocking mechanism and the locking member is disengaged from the engaging portion of the movable member. Thus the movable member can be moved to an arbitrary height.

If a hand is left from the operating lever in a state where the movable member is held at an arbitrary height the locking member is pushed to the locking position with the biasing force of the biasing member and is engaged with any one of the plurality of engaging portions of the movable member to lock the movable member at that height. If the locking member is not engaged with any engaging portion the locking member can be engaged with any engaging portion by slightly moving the movable member up and down.

The rotating rod only moves in the up down direction with respect to the locking member together with the movable member and the relationship among the rotating rod the locking member and the interlocking mechanism does not fluctuate at all. Thus regardless of the height at which the movable member is located locking and unlocking operations can always be lightly performed under the same conditions.

Moreover since the relationship among the rotating rod the locking member and the interlocking mechanism do not fluctuate the possibility of an erroneous operation and a malfunction can be reduced.

In a third aspect of the height adjustment device in a fixture of the present invention based on the second aspect the rotating rod is rotatably inserted through an insertion hole provided in the locking member and directed to the up down direction. The interlocking mechanism includes a protrusion that is provided so as to protrude from an inner surface of the insertion hole of the locking member and a recessed groove that is provided in an outer peripheral surface of the rotating rod has the protrusion fitted thereinto in a relatively movable manner and is directed to the up down direction. The rotating rod is rotated in one direction around the axis and thereby the protrusion is pushed by an actuating portion formed on one side surface of the recessed groove and the locking member is moved toward the unlocking position.

According to such a configuration the interlocking mechanism can be a simple structure including the protrusion provided on the locking member and the recessed groove provided in the rotating rod.

Additionally even if the height of the movable member fluctuates the up down position of the actuating portion of the rotating rod that abuts against the protrusion of the locking member only fluctuates and the distance from the rotation center of the rotating rod to a point of abutment against the protrusion of the locking member do not fluctuate. Thus even if the movable member is located at any height an operating force that moves the locking member to the unlocking position does not fluctuate and locking and unlocking operations can always be lightly performed under the same conditions.

In a fourth aspect related to the height adjustment device in a fixture of the present invention based on the second or third aspect an abutting surface parallel to a central axis of the rotating rod is formed in portion of the rotating rod and the rotating rod is rotated by pushing the eccentric portion of the abutting surface with one end portion of the operating lever provided at the movable member.

According to such a configuration the rotating rod can be rotated with a weak force by the operating lever any type out of a rotary type in which the operating lever is pivotally attached to the movable member with the pivot and an extend retract type in which the operating lever for example makes a linear motion in the frontward rearward direction can be adopted and the degree of freedom of design is increased.

In a fifth aspect related to the height adjustment device in a fixture of the present invention based on any one of the above aspects the locking member is tiltably supported on the support.

According to such a configuration when the movable member is lifted and lowered in a curved track with respect to the support the locking member is tiltably supported by the support even if the actuating member or the rotating rod is inclined with respect to the locking member. Accordingly the engagement relationship between the actuating member or the action portion of the rotating rod and the locking member is kept equal irrespective of the up down position of the movable member. That is an operation using the operating lever provided at the movable member is made smooth irrespective of the up down position and lifting and lowering track of the movable member.

In a sixth aspect related to the height adjustment device in a fixture of the present invention based on the fifth aspect the locking member tilts around an axis of an engaging protrusion provided to protrude so as to be engaged with the engaging portion.

According to such a configuration the engaging protrusion of the locking member can also be used as a tilt shaft of the locking member and the structure of tilting the locking member can be simplified.

A seventh aspect related to the height adjustment device in a fixture of the present invention based on any one of the above aspects further includes a guide member that is fixed inside the movable member has the plurality of engaging portions and extends in the up down direction.

According to such a configuration compared to the case in which the inner wall of the movable member is directly formed with the plurality of engaging portions the engaging portions are formed in the guide member that is a member separate from the movable member and that is anchored inside the movable member. Accordingly it is possible to mold the movable member simply by shaping it with a mold in the up down direction and a mold structure can be simplified.

In an eighth aspect related to the height adjustment device in a fixture of the present invention based on the seventh aspect the guide member has a plurality of engaging holes as the plurality of engaging portions.

According to such a configuration the guide member itself is arranged inside the movable member. Thus the engaging holes can be prevented from being exposed to the outside even though the engaging portions are easily formed by the engaging holes.

In an armrest device for a chair the support in the height adjustment device in a fixture according to any one of the above aspects serves as a lower support rod that rises at a side of a chair seat and has a tubular upper end portion and the movable member serves as an upper support cylinder that has an armrest provided at an upper end thereof is externally fitted to the lower support rod so as to be slidable in the up down direction and has a plurality of engaging portions therein. The armrest is made height adjustable with respect to the lower support rod by disposing the locking member and the biasing member at an upper end portion of the lower support rod and inserting the actuating member or the rotating rod further inward than the upper end portion of the lower support rod.

According to such a configuration it is possible to provide the armrest device for a chair that keeps the plurality of engaging portions from being exposed to the outside even if the movement stroke of the armrest is made large makes an operation smooth using the operating lever provided at the upper support rod irrespective of the up down position or lifting and lowering track of the armrest and has little possibility of erroneous operation or malfunction.

Additionally even if the movement stroke of the armrest is made large it is not necessary to make the length of the whole armrest in the up down direction large. Thus miniaturization of the whole armrest device and reduction of material costs can be achieved and the degree of freedom of the attachment position of the armrest device to the chair can be increased.

According to the invention there are provided the height adjustment device in a fixture and the armrest device for a chair provided with the height adjustment device aiming at keeping the plurality of engaging portions from being exposed to the outside even if the movement stroke of the movable member is made large making smooth an operation using the operating lever provided at the movable member irrespective of the up down position or lifting and lowering track of the movable member always lightly performing locking and unlocking operations in the same manner irrespective of the up down position of the movable member and having little possibility of erroneous operation or malfunction.

Hereinafter a first embodiment of a chair in which a height adjustment device of the present invention is applied to an armrest device will be described with reference to the drawings.

As shown in in this chair a post is erected at the center of five legs that have casters provided at their tips and extend radially and a supporting base that supports a seat and a backrest is provided at an upper end of the post .

The backrest is supported by rising portions of rear portions in a pair of left and right backrest supporting rods only one of these rods is shown forming a substantial L shape in a side view and front end portions of forward portions that are directed to the front from lower ends of the rising portions in both the backrest supporting rods are anchored to both end portions of a pivot passing through the supporting base in a left right direction.

Biasing member not shown that biases the backrest supporting rod in a direction in which the backrest rises is provided via the pivot within the supporting base .

An upper end portion of an upward protruding piece provided at a portion slightly behind the pivot in the forward portion of the backrest supporting rod is coupled to a rear lower portion of the seat by a shaft not shown directed to the left right direction.

A front lower portion of the seat is mounted on the supporting base so as to be able to slide in a frontward rearward direction along a front portion upper surface of the supporting base that inclines rearward and downward.

Accordingly as the backrest tilts rearward a rear portion of the seat moves rearward and downward and a front portion of the seat moves rearward and frontward along the front portion upper surface of the supporting base .

As shown in the armrest device is provided at an intermediate portion of the forward portion in the frontward rearward direction further behind the upward protruding piece in the forward portion of the backrest supporting rod .

The armrest device includes an armrest post and an armrest attached to an upper end of the armrest post .

The armrest post includes a lower support rod support forming a substantial L shape in a front view by an inward portion directed to slightly downward from an inner side of a lower end of the rising portion continuously provided on the lower end of the rising portion support directed to an up down direction and an upper support cylinder mounted on the rising portion in a height adjustable manner by using the height adjustment device and the armrest is attached to an upper end of the upper support cylinder .

The inward portion in the lower support rod has an elliptical cross section that is elongated in the frontward rearward direction and the cross sectional area thereof increases gradually inward supporting base side . An inner end surface of the inward portion is formed with an inward protrusion that forms an oval or elliptical shape that is elongated in the frontward rearward direction as a lateral shape and forms a bifurcated shape having a longitudinal groove at the center thereof as a planar shape.

A recessed portion for allowing a head of a bolt to be described below to be easily inserted thereinto is formed from an outer end portion to the vicinity of an inner end in a lower surface of the inward portion of the lower support rod .

Additionally a bolt insertion hole that opens at a central portion of the longitudinal groove in the inward protrusion is provided toward the left right direction extending direction of the inward portion within the inward portion

An attaching portion of the lower support rod further behind the upward protruding piece in the forward portion of the backrest supporting rod is provided with a recessed portion into which the inward protrusion fits and an outer end surface of a protruding strip that fits into the longitudinal groove of the inward protrusion and is directed to the up down direction is provided with a female thread hole .

By fitting the inward protrusion to the recessed portion in this state an inner end surface of the inward portion of the lower support rod abuts against an outside surface of the forward portion of the backrest supporting rod . A shank of the bolt is inserted through the bolt insertion hole such that the head of the bolt is located in the recessed portion and a male thread portion of the bolt is screwed and fastened to the female thread hole in the forward portion of the backrest supporting rod . As a result the lower support rod is firmly anchored to the backrest supporting rod without positional deviation in the frontward rearward direction and in the left right direction and the rising portion of the lower support rod rises on a lateral side of the seat .

The appearance of the rising portion of the lower support rod forms an elliptical cross section that is elongated in the frontward rearward direction and an upper end portion of the rising portion forms a tubular shape by forming a recessed step portion at the upper end portion of the rising portion

A recessed hole that leads to the lower end portion of the rising portion is provided at the center of a bottom surface of the recessed step portion .

An upper front surface of the rising portion of the lower support rod is provided with a rectangular window hole that communicates with the recessed step portion .

Additionally both side portions in an upper portion of the rising portion of the lower support rod are provided with a pair of front and rear engaging holes and .

An end cap where a pair of hanging left and right side pieces and are provided on a lower surface of a blocking plate having an insertion hole directed to the up down direction provided at the center thereof is mounted at an upper end portion of the rising portion of the lower support rod so that the hanging side pieces and fit into the recessed step portion and the lower surface of the blocking plate abuts against an upper end surface of the rising portion

In a state where the end cap is mounted on the upper end portion of the rising portion of the lower support rod pins that are directed to the left right direction are fitted into the engaging holes and penetrating in the left right direction in the upper end portion of the rising portion of the lower support rod and engaging holes and provided in the left and right hanging side pieces and provided coaxially with the engaging holes and and the end cap is prevented from coming off from the upper end portion of the rising portion of the lower support rod .

A locking member is fitted so as to be slidable in the frontward rearward direction in a space surrounded by the bottom surface of the recessed step portion in the upper end portion of the rising portion of the lower support rod the lower surface of the blocking plate in the end cap and both the left and right hanging side pieces and .

As shown in an engaging protrusion capable of being extended and retracted from a front surface of the rising portion through the window hole in the upper end portion of the rising portion of the lower support rod is provided at a front end of a substantially oval tubular trunk portion directed to the up down direction and is provided with an oval insertion hole that is elongated in the frontward rearward direction at a central portion of the locking member . Any one of an inner surface of the insertion hole is provided with a protrusion that is directed inward and a rear surface of the trunk portion is provided with a spring receiving protrusion . A lower surface of the engaging protrusion forms an inclination surface that is directed forward and upward.

A compression coil spring that is a biasing member directed to the frontward rearward direction has a front end portion fitted to the spring receiving protrusion in a compressed state between the rear surface of the trunk portion of the locking member and a front surface of a rear wall portion within the recessed step portion in the upper end portion of the rising portion of the lower support rod .

The locking member is biased forward by the compression coil spring and is usually located at a locking position where the engaging protrusion protrudes from the front surface of the rising portion through the window hole . The locking member is pushed rearward by a rotating rod actuating member to be described below and is thereby moved to an unlocking position where the engaging protrusion is retracted into the window hole .

The upper support cylinder forms an elliptical tubular shape that is elongated in the frontward rearward direction and includes an enlarged portion which has a cross sectional area that increases upward and overhangs lengthwise particularly toward the front at an upper end portion. A front portion of the enlarged portion is provided with a window hole through which portion of an operating lever operating member to be described below is inserted. Additionally a lower end portion of the upper support cylinder is provided with an inward flange portion Moreover an upper surface of the enlarged portion is formed with a shallow recessed step portion

An inner cylinder that is externally fitted to the rising portion of the lower support rod so as to be slidable in the up down direction is internally fitted into the upper support cylinder .

An upper portion of the inner cylinder is formed with an enlarged step portion that is enlarged slightly more than portion therebelow and the center of a bottom wall of a recessed step portion inside the enlarged step portion is provided with an insertion hole through which the rotating rod to be described below is inserted.

A front surface of the enlarged step portion is provided with a longitudinal groove through which portion of the operating lever is inserted in the frontward rearward direction and the inner side surfaces of ribs and that are provided on left and right inner side surfaces of the recessed step portion behind the longitudinal groove and are directed to the up down direction are provided with U shaped grooves and that receive and support a pivot of the operating lever and of which an upper end opens.

A plurality of rectangular engaging holes are provided side by side in the up down direction in a front surface in a portion below the enlarged step portion in the inner cylinder . A lower edge of each engaging hole forms an inclination surface that is directed rearward and downward.

The rotating rod is formed by providing a larger diameter disc portion continuously with an upper end of a columnar shank that is concentric with the upper support cylinder and the inner cylinder and providing a semicircular arc shaped operated portion continuously on the large diameter disc portion . As shown in an outer peripheral surface of the shank is provided with a crank shaped recessed groove including a longitudinal groove that leads from portion directly below the disc portion to the vicinity of a lower end portion of the shank and extends in the up down direction a lateral groove directed to a circumferential direction of the shank from the lower end of the longitudinal groove and a longitudinal groove that leads from an end portion opposite to a continuously connected end portion of the lateral groove with the longitudinal groove to the lower end of the shank and extends in the up down direction.

A planed surface used as the chord of the semicircle arc in the operated portion forms an abutting surface that is parallel to a central axis of the rotating rod against which an actuating portion of the operating lever to be described below abuts.

In the rotating rod the shank is rotatably inserted into the recessed hole of the rising portion of the lower support rod through the insertion hole of the bottom wall of the inner cylinder the insertion hole of the blocking plate in the end cap and the insertion hole of the locking member so that a lower surface of the disc portion abuts against an upper surface of the bottom wall of the inner cylinder and the protrusion of the locking member fits into the longitudinal groove in a relatively movable manner.

An interlocking mechanism that interlocks the rotating rod with the locking member is formed by the longitudinal groove in the rotating rod and the protrusion in the locking member so that the locking member is moved in a direction of the unlocking position by the rotation of the rotating rod in one direction.

Namely as shown in if the rotating rod is rotated clockwise in from a state where the locking member is located at the locking position a side surface located ahead of the longitudinal groove serves as an actuating portion to push back the protrusion and thereby the locking member moves rearward and is brought into the unlocking position against the biasing force of the compression coil spring .

As described above the reason why the recessed groove action portion is formed in the shape of a crank is because when the upper support cylinder is lifted to an upper limit together with the armrest the protrusion of the locking member abuts against the lower end of the longitudinal groove to prevent further lifting of the upper support cylinder and because the rotating rod is slightly rotated around the central axis in the middle of insertion so as to be allowed to enter into and leave from the rising portion of the lower support rod .

The operating lever is rotatably mounted into the recessed step portion of the inner cylinder by inserting both end portions of the pivot which passes through an intermediate portion in the frontward rearward direction of the operating lever in the left right direction into the left and right U shaped grooves and in the inner cylinder from above and the operating portion of a front portion thereof protrudes downward from the window hole through the longitudinal groove of the inner cylinder and the window hole of the upper support cylinder .

The actuating portion behind the pivot in the operating lever is hook shaped in a side view and protrudes rearward and a tip portion of the actuating portion is laterally biased from the central axis of the rotating rod and as shown in abuts against an eccentric portion of the abutting surface in the operated portion of the rotating rod from the rear.

A blocking member is fitted into the recessed step portion in the upper end of the upper support cylinder and fixed with a set screw . An upward protrusion is provided so as to protrude from a substantial central portion in an upper surface of the blocking member and the armrest is mounted on the blocking member by using the upward protrusion .

The upper surface of the blocking member and the upper end surface of the upper support cylinder are a receiving and supporting surface that supports the armrest and the upward protrusion is an upper end portion of the armrest post that protrudes upward from the receiving and supporting surface.

As the inner cylinder is sandwiched between the blocking member and the inward flange portion of the upper support cylinder from above and below the inner cylinder is prevented from separating from the upper support cylinder and as the inner cylinder is internally fitted tightly into the elliptical upper support cylinder the inner cylinder is prevented from rotating with respect to the upper support cylinder .

Additionally the blocking member also prevents the rotating rod and the operating lever from separating from the upper support cylinder and the inner cylinder .

Usually as the locking member is biased forward by the biasing force of the compression coil spring and is located at the locking position where the engaging protrusion is engaged with any one of the engaging holes of the inner cylinder the inner cylinder and the upper support cylinder and the armrest that are integrated with the inner cylinder are held at an appropriate height.

When the height of the armrest is changed from this state the operating portion of the operating lever is pushed upward against the biasing force of the compression coil spring .

Then the actuating portion of the operating lever rotates downward around the pivot and the eccentric portion of the abutting surface in the operated portion of the rotating rod is pushed forward by the tip of the actuating portion . Therefore the rotating rod rotates clockwise in and the protrusion of the locking member is pushed rearward by the actuating portion that is an inner side surface in front of the longitudinal groove . Therefore the locking member moves rearward against the biasing force of the compression coil spring and is brought into the unlocking position.

If the locking member is retracted to the unlocking position the engaging protrusion of the locking member is disengaged from the engaging hole of the inner cylinder that is fitted and the armrest and the upper support cylinder are freely movable in the up down direction with respect to the rising portion of the lower support rod .

When a hand is left from the operating portion of the operating lever after the armrest is moved to a desired height the locking member is pushed forward by the biasing force of the compression coil spring and is stopped as the engaging protrusion of the locking member fits into any one of the engaging holes of the inner cylinder or the tip thereof abuts against the inner surface of the inner cylinder .

In the latter case the engaging protrusion is fitted into the nearest engaging hole simply by slightly moving the armrest either upward or downward after the above stop.

If the engaging protrusion of the locking member fits into any one of the engaging holes of the inner cylinder and the locking member stops at the locking position the inner cylinder and the upper support cylinder and the armrest integral with the inner cylinder are held at predetermined heights at that time.

Additionally when someone wishes to pull the armrest upward it is only necessary to lift the armrest upward. By means of the lifting of the inner cylinder in this case the inclination surface of the lower edge of the engaging hole engaged with the engaging protrusion of the locking member pushes the inclination surface of the lower edge of the engaging protrusion rearward and moves the locking member to the unlocking position against the biasing force of the compression coil spring . If the engaging protrusion is engaged with an engaging hole in the following stage of the engaging hole that has been engaged till then the locking member is moved again to the locking position by the biasing force of the compression coil spring and then the armrest can be raised by every stage of the engaging holes by repeating the same operation.

If the armrest reaches an upper limit the protrusion of the locking member abuts against the lower end of the longitudinal groove in the recessed groove and further lifting of the armrest is prevented.

In the armrest device the rotating rod merely moves in the up down direction with respect to the locking member together with the armrest and the relationship among the rotating rod the locking member and the interlocking mechanism does not fluctuate at all. Hence even if the armrest is located at any height locking and unlocking operations can always be lightly performed under the same conditions.

Moreover since the relationship among the rotating rod the locking member and the interlocking mechanism does not fluctuate the possibility of erroneous operation or malfunction can be reduced.

Additionally even if the movement stroke of the armrest is made large it is not necessary to make the length of the whole armrest in the up down direction large. Thus miniaturization of the armrest device and reduction of material costs can be achieved and the degree of freedom of the attachment position of the armrest device to the chair can be increased.

Among the above components the lower support rod serves as a support in a fixture the upper support cylinder serves as a movable member mounted on the support so as to be movable in the up down direction and the inner cylinder serves as a guide member that is anchored to the upper support cylinder as the movable member is provided with the engaging portion including the plurality of engaging holes arranged in the up down direction and is directed to the up down direction. The height adjustment device in the fixture is formed by these components the locking member the biasing member including the compression coil spring the rotating rod the interlocking mechanism and the operating lever .

As shown in the armrest includes an armrest supporting plate that serves as a shielding member supported by the above described blocking member an armrest substrate supported by the armrest supporting plate holding member that sandwiches the armrest supporting plate and the armrest substrate between the holding member and the upper end surface of the armrest post so as to be movable in a horizontal direction and immovable upward and an elbow pad mounted on the armrest substrate so as to cover an upper surface of the holding member and the armrest substrate and made of an elastomer or the like. The above described upward protrusion that rises from the upper surface of the blocking member as the receiving and supporting surface and forms the upper end portion of the armrest post is formed from a pipe and is provided so as to protrude to the upper surface of the blocking member by press fitting a lower end portion of the upward protrusion into a through hole drilled in the blocking member or anchoring the lower end through welding or the like. A square nut is anchored to an upper end of the upward protrusion through welding or the like.

The armrest supporting plate has a substantially oblong blocking plate of which the frontward rearward dimension is sufficiently greater than the length of the upper surface of the upper support cylinder in the frontward rearward direction of which the left right dimension is approximately equal to the width of the armrest substrate and which is long in the frontward rearward direction. A guide protrusion for guiding the armrest substrate in the frontward rearward direction that is a second direction is provided on the upper surface of the central portion of the blocking plate so as to protrude integrally and upward. The guide protrusion forms a substantial square in a plan view of which the left right width is approximately equal to the left right dimension of the blocking member and of which the up down dimension is approximately equal to the thickness of the bottom surface plate of the armrest substrate . Guide surfaces sliding surfaces and that are parallel to each other and are elongated in the frontward rearward direction are provided on both side surfaces of the guide protrusion .

An elongated hole directed to the left right direction is formed at a central portion of the guide protrusion so as to penetrate up and down and a short edge piece is provided at an opening edge of an upper surface of the elongated hole so as to protrude upward.

By fitting the upward protrusion of the blocking member to the elongated hole of the guide protrusion in a relatively movable manner the armrest supporting plate is supported on the upper surface of the blocking member of the upper end of the upper support cylinder so as to be movable in the left right direction and be horizontally rotatable around the upward protrusion . In addition when the upward protrusion has been fitted into the elongated hole in a relatively movable manner an upper end portion of the upward protrusion including the square nut protrudes slightly from an upper surface of the guide protrusion . Additionally the length of the elongated hole in the left right direction is determined such that the elongated hole does not protrude laterally from an upper end surface of the blocking member even when the armrest supporting plate has moved to a limit position where the upward protrusion abuts against an end portion of the elongated hole .

An upward protruding piece that couples a lower holding member to be described below and is directed to the frontward rearward direction is provided on an upper surface of a central portion of the armrest supporting plate in the left right direction in the front of the guide protrusion so as to protrude upward. A rear end of the upward protruding piece is coupled to a front surface of the guide protrusion . The up down dimension of a front portion of the upward protruding piece is made larger than that of a rear portion and an upper half portion of the front portion of the upward protruding piece is formed with a shaft like widened portion that has a larger diameter than the thickness of the upper half portion and has a female thread hole in the up down direction.

The armrest substrate forms a substantially oblong shape of which the planar shape is elongated in the frontward rearward direction a protruding edge is provided on an upper surface of a peripheral edge portion of a bottom surface plate of the armrest substrate so as to protrude obliquely outward and upward and a rising piece is provided so as to protrude upward longer than the protruding edge along an inner side of the protruding edge . Left and right facing surfaces of a front portion and a rear portion in the rising piece are coupled together by ribs and provided so as to protrude in the left right direction from an upper surface of the bottom surface plate

A central portion of the bottom surface plate in the armrest substrate that is the bottom surface plate of the portion surrounded by the front and rear ribs that face the rising piece in the left right direction is formed with a wide opening portion extending in the frontward rearward direction orthogonal to the elongated hole provided in the guide protrusion . The opening portion forms a substantial oblong shape in a plan view and the left and right facing surfaces thereof are formed as a pair of guided surfaces and with which the left and right guide surfaces of the above described guide protrusion come into sliding contact.

The opening portion is always blocked by the armrest supporting plate . That is the frontward rearward dimension and left right dimension of the armrest supporting plate as will be described below are made to be sizes such that the opening portion is blocked by the armrest supporting plate even when the armrest has been moved to the maximum amount in the frontward rearward direction and in the left right direction and neither a finger nor foreign matter enters the opening portion .

If the opening portion of the armrest substrate fits to the guide protrusion of the armrest supporting plate the left and right guide surfaces of the guide protrusion come into sliding contact with the left and right guided surfaces of the opening portion . Accordingly the armrest substrate is supported on the upper surface of the armrest supporting plate so as to be immovable and non rotatable in the left right direction that is movable only in the frontward rearward direction. Accordingly the armrest substrate is movable in the left right direction that is the first direction and rotates horizontally together with the armrest supporting plate . In addition when the opening portion is made to fit to the guide protrusion the upper surface of the guide protrusion and the upper surface of the bottom surface plate of the armrest substrate are matched with each other in the same plane.

A slit of which a rear end communicates with a front end of the opening portion of which a front end leads to the vicinity of the rib of a front portion and which extends in the frontward rearward direction is formed at the central portion of the bottom surface plate of the armrest substrate in the left right direction in the front of the opening portion so as to pass through the bottom surface plate . As for the slit when the armrest substrate is placed on the armrest supporting plate the widened portion protrudes above the slit and the upward protruding piece is fitted to the armrest substrate so as to be slidable in the frontward rearward direction.

A pair of left and right guided surfaces and extending in the frontward rearward direction are formed on upper surfaces of inward step portions that protrude inward from lower portions of left and right rising pieces and that face each other between the front and rear ribs and . Mutually facing inner side surfaces of rear half portions of the guided surfaces and are formed with a plurality of engaging grooves that are recessed outward.

Holding member including a lower holding member an upper holding member and a fixing member and a bolt that press these holding members down from above is mounted on an upper surface of the central portion of the bottom surface plate of the armrest substrate .

The armrest supporting plate and the lower holding member that sandwiches the armrest substrate so as to be movable in the frontward rearward direction is accommodated in an inward recessed portion surrounded by the upper surface of the central portion of the bottom surface plate of the armrest substrate that is the front and rear ribs and the mutually facing left and right rising pieces so as to be movable in the frontward rearward direction. The lower holding member is able to relatively move only in the frontward rearward direction on the upper surface of the bottom surface plate of the armrest substrate by making the frontward rearward dimension thereof smaller than the dimension between the front and rear ribs and and making the left right dimension thereof approximately equal to the dimension between the mutually facing left and right rising pieces .

A central portion of a bottom surface plate of the lower holding member is formed with a fitting hole that is elongated in left right direction orthogonal to the opening portion of the armrest substrate . The lower holding member is placed on the upper surface of the bottom surface plate of the armrest substrate by fitting the fitting hole to the edge piece of the guide protrusion in the armrest supporting plate . If the fitting hole of the lower holding member is made to fit into the edge piece of the guide protrusion in this way the positioning between the armrest supporting plate and the lower holding member becomes easy and the relative movement thereof is prevented.

As shown in guide portions and having an L shaped cross section in a plan view are upwardly provided continuously with both left and right side edges of the bottom surface plate of the lower holding member and both the guide portions come into sliding contact with the upper surface and inner side surfaces of the left and right guided surfaces and of the armrest substrate so as to be movable in the frontward rearward direction.

A forward piece of which a lower end is connected to a front end of the bottom surface plate and of which both left and right side ends are connected to the facing surfaces of front end upper portions of the left and right guide portions is provided continuously with a front portion of the bottom surface plate and a central portion of the forward piece in the left right direction is coupled to an upper end of the widened portion of the upward protruding piece of the armrest supporting plate with a screw refer to .

In addition if the forward piece is screwed to the upward protruding piece of the armrest supporting plate there is an advantage that the armrest supporting plate the armrest substrate and the lower holding member are assembled in advance. However as will be described below since the lower holding member is held by the upper holding member and the fixing member the upward protruding piece and the forward piece may be omitted.

As shown in downward elastic engaging pieces are provided continuously with rear end portions of the left and right guide portions so as to face the left and right guided surfaces and engaging protrusions that are selectively engaged with the engaging grooves of the rear half portions of the guided pieces are provided so as to protrude from outside surfaces of the both elastic engaging pieces .

As shown in a pair of front and rear guide pieces and extending in the left right direction are erected from upper surfaces of a front portion and a rear end portion close to the forward piece in the bottom surface plate of the lower holding member so as to face each other with the fitting hole therebetween and both side ends of the guide pieces are connected to the facing surfaces of the left and right guide portions . A front surface of the front guide piece is formed with a plurality of engaging grooves that are recessed rearward and a rear surface of the rear guide piece is provided with a plurality of engaging grooves that is recessed forward.

A plurality of four in this example parallel protruding strips extending in the left right direction are provided so as to protrude from an upper surface of the bottom surface plate surrounded by the left and right guide portions and the front and rear guide pieces in the lower holding member .

The upper holding member is accommodated within the inward recessed portion surrounded by the left and right guide portions and the front and rear guide pieces in the lower holding member so as to be immovable in the frontward rearward direction. The frontward rearward dimension of the upper holding member is a length such that the upper holding member is slidable on the facing surface of the guide piece of the lower holding member and the left right dimension thereof is smaller than the length between the facing surfaces of the guide portions so as to be movable in the left right direction between the pair of guide pieces . Accordingly the upper holding member is made movable in the left right direction and non rotatable with respect to the lower holding member . In addition a lower surface of the upper holding member is placed on the plurality of protruding strips provided so as to protrude from the bottom surface plate of the lower holding member and the sliding friction resistance when the upper holding member moves in the left right direction with respect to the lower holding member is made small by making the mutual contact area between the lower holding member and the upper holding member small.

As shown in hook shaped elastic engaging pieces and engaged with the front and rear guide pieces and of the lower holding member from above are provided at central portions in the left right direction in front and rear edges of the upper holding member so as to protrude outward. As the front and rear end surfaces of the upper holding member and each elastic engaging piece sandwiches each guide piece the upper holding member smoothly slides with respect to the lower holding member in the left right direction.

Each elastic engaging piece is made to be elastically deformable outward and the upper holding member moves gradually and stably with respect to the lower holding member with a feeling of moderation in the left right direction by selectively and elastically engaging the engaging protrusion refer to provided on the inner surface of the elastic engaging piece with the plurality of engaging grooves in the front and rear guide pieces refer to .

A tubular fitting protrusion having an external diameter approximately equal to the frontward rearward width of the elongated hole of the armrest supporting plate is provided on a lower surface of a central portion of the upper holding member so as to protrude downward. By slidably fitting the fitting protrusion to the elongated hole and rotatably fitting the fitting protrusion to the upward protrusion of the blocking member the upper holding member is rotatably placed on the upper surface of the bottom surface plate of the lower holding member so as to be movable in the left right direction with respect to the lower holding member and rotatable with respect to the blocking member . In addition the fitting protrusion has a function as a spacer that uniformly maintains the up down dimension between the blocking member and the upper holding member . By making a lower end of the fitting protrusion abut against the upper surface of the blocking member a lower surface of the upper holding member does not strongly abut against the upper surface of the bottom surface plate of the lower holding member . In this way if the lower end of the fitting protrusion is made to abut against the upper surface of the blocking member and the fitting protrusion is fitted to the upward protrusion the upward protrusion is reinforced and the bending rigidity thereof increases. Thus the armrest post can support the armrest more firmly.

The above described circular fixing member is rotatably accommodated in the recessed portion that is formed at the upper surface of the central portion of the upper holding member and is circular in a plan view. A circular protrusion is provided on a lower surface of a central portion of the fixing member so as to protrude downward. The circular protrusion rotatably fits into an enlarged diameter portion of a stepped fitting hole formed in an upper surface of the recessed portion refer to .

A protruding piece is provided at an upper portion of a rear surface of the fixing member so as to protrude rearward. The protruding piece slidably abuts against an upper surface of a step portion formed in an upper surface of a rear portion of the upper holding member .

The fixing member is screwed to the square nut of the upward protrusion of the blocking member from above by inserting the bolt into a stepped through hole of the up down direction drilled at the center of the fixing member . In this way the fixing member is anchored to the upper end of the upward protrusion within the recessed portion of the upper holding member such that the armrest supporting plate the armrest substrate the lower holding member and the upper holding member are pressed against the upper surface of the blocking member sequentially from above. In this case the fixing member is fixed to the square nut of the upward protrusion so that a lower surface of the fixing member does not strongly abut against an upper surface of the upper holding member and the upper holding member is rotatable with respect to the fixing member .

A plurality of engaging grooves that are directed to the up down direction are formed along a circumferential direction on a front surface of a fan shaped thick wall portion formed at a front portion of the fixing member . A front portion of the upper holding member that faces the thick wall portion is formed with an angular hole of which an upper surface and a rear surface open and which is directed to the up down direction and an elastic body such as rubber is fitted into the angular hole refer to . A locking pin directed to the up down direction is sandwiched between a rear surface of a central portion of the elastic body in the left right direction and a surface that faces an engaging groove so as to be biased rearward by the elastic body . As the locking pin is selectively and elastically engaged with the plurality of engaging grooves the whole armrest including the upper holding member can be rotated by a predetermined angle around the fixing member with a feeling of moderation in a state where an appropriate resistance force is applied. In addition the fixing member having the above engaging grooves the elastic body inserted into the angular hole of the upper holding member and the locking pin constitute resistance force imparting member that imparts a resistance force to the horizontal rotation of the armrest .

In the armrest device described above the positioning of the armrest in the frontward rearward direction is performed as follows.

If the armrest substrate moves forward the pair of left and right elastic engaging pieces and of the rear end portion of the lower holding member moves rearward along the guided pieces while being engaged with and disengaged from the plurality of engaging grooves provided at the rear portions of the pair of left and right guided surfaces and in the armrest substrate whereby the armrest substrate moves to a front limit position with a feeling of moderation.

In this case since the frontward rearward dimension and left right dimension of the armrest supporting plate are sizes such that the opening portion of the armrest substrate is always blocked there is no possibility that a finger or foreign matter may enter the opening portion even if the armrest substrate is moved to front and rear limit positions.

In addition since the front and rear positions of the armrest substrate are gradually adjustable by the number of the engaging grooves the front and rear positions can also be adjusted to arbitrary intermediate positions.

In this case since the opening portion of the armrest substrate is fitted to the guide protrusion of the armrest supporting plate so as to be relatively immovable in the left right direction the armrest supporting plate moves in the left right direction together with the armrest substrate . Accordingly even if the elbow pad is moved to the maximum amount in the left right direction the opening portion of the armrest substrate is not exposed to the outside and there is no possibility that a finger or foreign matter may enter the opening portion .

Additionally since the positional relationship in the left right direction between the armrest supporting plate and the armrest substrate does not change the elbow pad can be stably supported by the armrest supporting plate and the armrest supporting plate and the armrest substrate do not slide relative to each other in the left right direction. Thus any wear between mutual abutting surfaces can be prevented.

If the upper holding member rotates relative to the fixing member the engaging grooves with which the locking pin biased rearward by the elastic body fitted into the angular hole of the upper holding member is elastically engaged sequentially fluctuate one by one and the orientation of the elbow pad in the left right direction is adjusted. This adjustment can be performed gradually by the number of the engaging grooves with a feeling of moderation. In this case since the guide protrusion of the armrest supporting plate is fitted into the opening portion of the armrest substrate so as to be relatively non rotatable the armrest supporting plate rotates together with the armrest substrate . Accordingly even if the orientation of the elbow pad in the left right direction is adjusted the opening portion is not exposed to the outside and there is no possibility that a finger or foreign matter may enter the opening portion . Additionally since the positional relationship in the left right direction between the armrest supporting plate and the armrest substrate does not change the elbow pad can be stably supported and any wear between mutual abutting surfaces can be prevented.

As described above in the armrest device of the above embodiment the armrest supporting plate that supports the armrest substrate and has a large frontward rearward dimension and left right dimension is provided between the upper surface of the blocking member fixed to the upper end portion of the upper support cylinder that is the upper end of the armrest post and the armrest substrate . Since the wide guide protrusion provided so as to protrude from the upper surface of the armrest supporting plate fits into the wide opening portion that is provided at the armrest substrate and is directed to the frontward rearward direction so as to be relatively movable in the frontward rearward direction relatively immovable in the left right direction and relatively non rotatable the armrest substrate can be supported with a large supporting area by the armrest supporting plate even if the elbow pad is moved in the left right direction or rotated.

Accordingly the elbow pad can be stably supported by the armrest post via the armrest supporting plate . Additionally the elbow pad can be stably moved in the frontward rearward direction while the armrest substrate is guided by the guide protrusion fitted into the wide opening portion . Particularly even if the elbow pad is horizontally rotated a lower surface of the armrest substrate is widely supported. Thus even if an elbow is put on the elbow pad that has been horizontally rotated a possibility that the elbow pad may be shaken in the up down direction or a bending load may be applied to the upward protrusion becomes small.

Additionally since the armrest substrate is sandwiched from above and below by the armrest supporting plate with a large frontward rearward dimension and left right dimension and the lower holding member coupled to the armrest supporting plate the elbow pad can be prevented from being shaken in the up down direction and can be stably moved in any direction. Moreover the armrest supporting plate moves in the left right direction and rotates together with the armrest substrate and widely supports the lower surface of the armrest substrate . Accordingly even if an elbow is put on the elbow pad in a state where the elbow pad is moved in the frontward rearward direction and in the left right direction or rotated horizontally a possibility that the elbow pad may be shaken in the up down direction or a bending load may be applied to the upward protrusion becomes small.

Moreover both left and right side portions within the recessed portion of the armrest substrate are provided with a pair of guided surfaces that face each other with the opening portion therebetween and the pair of guide portions provided at both the left and right side portions of the lower holding member are guided by the guided surfaces so as to be in relatively movable in the frontward rearward direction. Accordingly since the elbow pad is stably movable in the frontward rearward direction and the contact area and sliding resistance between the armrest substrate and the lower holding member becomes small the elbow pad can be smoothly moved in the frontward rearward direction. Additionally since the pair of guided surfaces are provided within the recessed portion of the armrest substrate the height of the armrest substrate does not become high.

The upward protrusion is fitted into the elongated hole of the guide protrusion the up down dimension of the guide protrusion is approximately equal to the thickness of the bottom surface plate of the armrest substrate the lower holding member is accommodated in the recessed portion of the upper surface of the armrest substrate the upper holding member is accommodated in the recessed portion of the upper surface of the lower holding member and the fixing member is accommodated in the recessed portion of the upper surface of the upper holding member . Accordingly the members that constitute the holding member can be easily mounted within the recessed portion of the upper surface of the armrest substrate simply by being overlapped sequentially from a lower member. Moreover even if the holding member is constituted of a plurality of upper and lower members the overall height of the holding means can be suppressed to be low and the up down dimension of the armrest substrate and the whole armrest can also be made small. As a result the material costs for molding the armrest substrate the elbow pad or the like is cut down and the appearance of the armrest device becomes excellent.

Additionally since the fixing member is accommodated in the recessed portion of the upper surface of the upper holding member and the resistance force imparting means of the armrest including the engaging grooves the elastic body and the locking pin is provided between the facing surfaces between the outer peripheral surface of the fixing member and the upper holding member the height of the resistance force imparting means can also be suppressed to be low.

The upward protrusion of the armrest post is indirectly fitted into the opening portion of the armrest substrate and the fitting hole of the lower holding member via the guide protrusion provided so as to protrude from the armrest supporting plate . Accordingly the load when the elbow pad is moved in the frontward rearward direction and in the left right direction with respect to the armrest post or is rotated is not directly applied to a sliding portion between the upward protrusion the opening portion and the fitting hole the wear of contact surfaces between the upward protrusion the opening portion and the fitting hole is suppressed and the elbow pad can be smoothly moved for a long period of time.

Additionally when the armrest is moved in the left right direction the armrest substrate and the armrest supporting plate move integrally. Accordingly by making the width of the armrest supporting plate in the left right direction be a dimension equal to or greater than the width of the opening portion of the armrest substrate in the left right direction and equal to or smaller than the left right width of the armrest substrate the armrest supporting plate does not stick out outwardly and laterally on the left and right of the armrest and the appearance thereof can be kept excellent even if the armrest is at any position in the left right direction.

In addition in the above embodiment the first direction and the second direction are made to be the left right direction and the frontward rearward direction that are orthogonal to each other within the horizontal plane. However the first direction and the second direction are not limited to the two orthogonal directions and can be arbitrary directions as long as these directions are two directions that intersect to each other.

In this armrest a movement guiding mechanism in the left right direction set to the first direction in the armrest of the first embodiment shown in particularly refer to is adopted as a movement guiding mechanism in the frontward rearward direction and similarly a movement guiding mechanism in the frontward rearward direction set to the second direction is adopted as a movement guiding mechanism in the left right direction. Therefore even in this modification example the first direction is the left right direction and the second direction is the frontward rearward direction.

The armrest includes an armrest supporting plate equivalent to the armrest supporting plate an armrest substrate equivalent to the armrest substrate holding member equivalent to the holding member and an elbow pad equivalent to the elbow pad .

The armrest supporting plate has a blocking plate formed such that the frontward rearward dimension thereof is a dimension between the frontward rearward dimension of an opening portion which is provided in the armrest substrate and is elongated in the frontward rearward direction and the frontward rearward dimension of the armrest substrate and a guide protrusion that is provided on an upper surface of the blocking plate .

An elongated hole directed to the frontward rearward direction is formed in the guide protrusion so as to penetrate in the up down direction and a short edge piece is provided at an opening edge of an upper surface of the elongated hole so as to protrude upward.

By fitting the upward protrusion of the blocking member to the elongated hole of the guide protrusion in a relatively movable manner the armrest supporting plate is supported on the upper surface of the blocking member so as to be relatively movable in the frontward rearward direction be relatively immovable in the left right direction and be horizontally rotatable around the upward protrusion .

A central portion of a bottom surface plate in the armrest substrate is formed with an opening portion directed to the frontward rearward direction. The opening portion is always blocked by a blocking plate of the armrest supporting plate . That is the frontward rearward dimension and left right dimension of the blocking plate as will be described below are made to be sizes such that the whole opening portion is blocked by the blocking plate even when the armrest substrate has been moved to the maximum amount in the frontward rearward direction and in the left right direction and no foreign matter enters the opening portion .

By fitting the opening portion of the armrest substrate to the guide protrusion of the armrest supporting plate so as to be relatively immovable in the frontward rearward direction relatively movable in the left right direction and relatively non rotatable the armrest substrate is supported on the upper surface of the armrest supporting plate so as to be relatively movable only in the left right direction. Accordingly the armrest substrate is movable in the frontward rearward direction that is the second direction and is horizontally rotatable together with the armrest supporting plate .

Guide pieces and extending in the left right direction are provided outside from front and rear end edges of the opening portion in the armrest substrate between left and right rising pieces and and outer surfaces of the guide pieces and are respectively formed with a plurality of engaging grooves that are recessed inward.

Holding member including a lower holding member an upper holding member the fixing member and the bolt is mounted on an upper surface of a central portion of the bottom surface plate of the armrest substrate .

The lower holding member that sandwiches the armrest substrate between the lower holding member and the armrest supporting plate so that the armrest substrate is relatively movable in the frontward rearward direction and in the left right direction is accommodated on an upper surface of the bottom surface plate within an inward recessed portion surrounded by the upper surface of the central portion of the bottom surface plate of the armrest plate that is the front and rear guide pieces and the left and right rising pieces so as to be movable in the left right direction. The lower holding member is able to relatively move only in the left right direction with respect to the armrest substrate by making the left right dimension thereof smaller than the dimension between the left and right rising pieces and and making the frontward rearward dimension thereof approximately equal to the dimension between the mutually facing front and rear guide pieces and .

A central portion of the lower holding member is provided with an oblong recessed portion directed to the frontward rearward direction and a bottom surface plate of the recessed portion is formed with a fitting hole extending in the frontward rearward direction. The lower holding member is placed on the upper surface of the bottom surface plate of the armrest substrate by fitting the fitting hole to the edge piece of the guide protrusion in the armrest supporting plate .

Outside surfaces of left and right rising portions of the lower holding member are formed with a plurality of engaging grooves that are recessed inward.

Additionally front and rear end portions of the lower holding member are provided with hook shaped elastic engaging pieces and engaged with the front and rear guides from above and an inner surface of a lower end portion of each elastic engaging piece is elastically engageable with the plurality of engaging grooves provided in each guide piece .

The upper holding member is accommodated in an upper surface of the bottom surface plate of the recessed portion in the lower holding member . The left right dimension of the upper holding member is a dimension such that the upper holding member comes into sliding contact with left and right inner side surfaces of the recessed portion in the lower holding member and the frontward rearward dimension thereof is made considerably smaller than the dimension between front and rear inner side surfaces of the recessed portion . Accordingly the upper holding member is made relatively movable in the frontward rearward direction relatively immovable in the left right direction and relatively non rotatable with respect to the lower holding member .

Central portions in the frontward rearward direction in left and right edges of the upper holding member are provided with hook shaped elastic engaging pieces and and the same engaging protrusions not shown as the engaging protrusions of are respectively provided on inner surfaces of lower end portions of the elastic engaging pieces and . The elastic engaging pieces are fitted to the left and right rising portions of the lower holding member from above.

A tubular fitting protrusion having an external diameter approximately equal to the left right width of the elongated hole of the armrest supporting plate is provided on a lower surface of a central portion of the upper holding member so as to protrude downward. The fitting protrusion slidably fits into the fitting hole of the lower holding member and the elongated hole of the armrest supporting plate and rotatably fits to the upward protrusion of the blocking member . Accordingly the upper holding member is placed on the upper surface of the bottom surface plate of the lower holding member so as to be relatively movable in the frontward rearward direction with respect to the lower holding member and relatively rotatable with respect to the armrest supporting plate . In addition as the fitting protrusion has the function as a spacer that keeps the up down dimension between the blocking member and the upper holding member constant and makes the lower end of the fitting protrusion abut against the upper surface of the blocking member a lower surface of the upper holding member does not strongly abut against the upper surface of the bottom surface plate of the lower holding member .

The circular fixing member refer to is accommodated in a relatively rotatable manner in the recessed portion that is formed at the upper surface of the central portion of the upper holding member and is circular in a plan view.

In the armrest device when the elbow pad is moved in the frontward rearward direction the armrest supporting plate and the lower holding member move integrally with the armrest substrate . Therefore by making the frontward rearward dimension of the blocking plate of the armrest supporting plate equal to or greater than the frontward rearward dimension of the opening portion of the armrest substrate and equal to or smaller than the frontward rearward dimension of the armrest substrate the whole opening portion can always be blocked by the blocking plate and foreign matter can be prevented from entering the opening portion . Additionally since the blocking plate does not stick out in the frontward rearward direction from front and rear end edges of the armrest substrate an excellent appearance can be maintained.

Additionally when the armrest is moved in the left right direction the armrest substrate relatively moves in the left right direction with respect to the armrest supporting plate and the lower holding member . In this case since the whole opening portion of the armrest substrate is always blocked by the blocking plate of the armrest supporting plate foreign matter can be prevented from entering the opening portion .

In the above embodiment and modification example a frontward rearward direction may be the first direction and the left right direction may be the second direction.

Next a second embodiment of the height adjustment device will be described with reference to . A height adjustment device of the second embodiment is different from the height adjustment device of the first embodiment particularly in that the height adjustment device of the first embodiment has the rising portion the upper support cylinder and the inner cylinder that extend linearly up and down whereas the height adjustment device of the second embodiment has a rising portion support an upper support cylinder and an inner cylinder that form a curved shape that is convex outward to the left and right in a cross sectional view in the frontward rearward direction and extend up and down refer to . In addition although there are portions having different shapes or the like the same components as those of the first embodiment will be designated by the same reference numerals and a detailed description thereof will be omitted here.

As shown in in the present embodiment a locking member is provided instead of the locking member of the first embodiment. The locking member has a columnar engaging protrusion locking pin at a front end of the trunk portion and has a pin hole which is coaxial with the engaging protrusion and opens rearward in the rear surface of the trunk portion . A screw hole coaxial with the pin hole is formed in a rear wall of the rising portion behind the pin hole . A journaling screw having a columnar tip shank is screwed and fixed to the screw hole . The tip shank is rotatably and slidably in the frontward rearward direction inserted into the pin hole of the trunk portion The locking member is tiltable to the left and right with the tip shank and the engaging protrusion as an axis.

Additionally in the present embodiment a rotating rod actuating member is provided instead of the rotating rod of the first embodiment. The rotating rod coaxially linearly and integrally has a shank inserted into the inner cylinder a small diameter shank connected to an upper portion of the shank so as to be reduced in diameter in the shape of a step and an operated portion connected to an upper portion of the shank so as to be increased in diameter in the shape of a step. The shank is appropriately subjected to thinning so as to leave a longitudinal rib along an axial direction and a transverse rib orthogonal to the longitudinal rib at an outer periphery thereof and a recessed groove action portion along the axial direction is formed at an outer periphery of a left right outer side the same side as the protrusion of the locking member over the total length of the shank. When the shank is inserted through the trunk portion of the locking member the protrusion fits into the recessed groove so as to be slidable up and down.

As shown in a slider that is slidable back and forth is arranged at an upper end portion of the inner cylinder . The slider has an upper locking piece of the operating lever engaged with a front end portion thereof. The upper locking piece moves the slider rearward when the operating portion of the operating lever is pushed upward.

A rear portion of the slider is formed with an engaging hole which forms a rectangle in a plan view and through which the rotating rod is inserted from above. Inner flanges are formed on both sides of the engaging hole and a flange formed at an upper end of the operated portion of the rotating rod comes into sliding contact with the inner flanges from above. The slider is held within the upper support cylinder with the inner cylinder in a state where the rotating rod is inserted through the engaging hole and is hung within the inner cylinder .

The upper support cylinder is mounted on the rising portion of the lower support rod in a state where the slider the inner cylinder and the rotating rod are held. In this case the shank of the rotating rod is inserted through the trunk portion of the locking member and the protrusion fits into the recessed groove in a relatively movable manner refer to . The rotating rod is integrally liftable with respect to the lower support rod together with the slider the inner cylinder and the upper support cylinder and is a little tiltable with respect to the slider or the like.

As shown in a protruding piece that protrudes to the inside of the engaging hole is formed on the inner flange on the left right outer side of the engaging hole . Meanwhile an outer periphery of the operated portion of the rotating rod is formed with a cutout portion including an abutting surface formed to be substantially orthogonal to a circumferential direction at almost the same circumferential position as the recessed groove . A rear end of the protruding piece of the engaging hole is engaged with an eccentric portion of the abutting surface of the cutout portion from the front when the engaging hole is inserted through the engaging hole .

In this state when the slider is moved rearward by the operation of the operating lever the protruding piece presses the eccentric portion of the abutting surface rearward and as shown in the rotating rod is rotated clockwise in the drawing.

As shown in when the rotating rod is rotated clockwise the locking member is moved rearward against the biasing force of the compression coil spring via the interlocking mechanism including the recessed groove and the protrusion

As shown in the locking member is biased forward by the biasing force of the compression coil spring during non operation of the operating lever . Accordingly the locking member is brought into the locking position where the engaging protrusion is engaged with any one of the plurality of circular engaging holes engaging portions provided vertically side by side on the front surface of the inner cylinder . In this case the inner cylinder the upper support cylinder and the armrest are held at appropriate heights.

When the height of the armrest is changed from this state the operating portion of the operating lever is pushed upward in any case of lifting and lowering. Then as shown in the slider is moved rearward to rotate the rotating rod clockwise and to move the locking member rearward against the biasing force of the compression coil spring . Accordingly the locking member is brought into the unlocking position where the engaging protrusion is disengaged from the engaging hole and the inner cylinder the upper support cylinder and the armrest are made liftable.

If a hand is left from the operating lever after the operating lever is operated to move the armrest to a desired height the locking member is moved forward by the biasing force of the compression coil spring and is returned to the locking position where the engaging protrusion is engaged with any one engaging hole of the inner cylinder . Even if the tip of the engaging protrusion abuts against the inner surface of the inner cylinder and stops while avoiding the engaging holes the engaging protrusion is engaged with the nearest engaging hole and brought into the locking position simply by slightly moving the armrest either upward or downward.

If the engaging protrusion of the locking member is engaged with any one engaging hole of the inner cylinder and the locking member stops at the locking position the inner cylinder and the upper support cylinder and the armrest integral with the inner cylinder are held at predetermined heights at that time.

Here as shown in when the armrest is lifted and lowered the rising portion of the lower support rod the upper support cylinder and the inner cylinder form a curved shape in the cross sectional view in the frontward rearward direction. Therefore the lifting and lowering track of the inner cylinder the upper support cylinder and the armrest also forms the same curved shape in the cross sectional view in the frontward rearward direction.

In this case although the rotating rod lifted and lowered together with the inner cylinder is also lifted and lowered in a curved shape the locking member through which the rotating rod is inserted is held by the upper end portion of the rising portion so as to be tiltable left and right. Accordingly even if an angle is changed in the cross sectional view in the frontward rearward direction with respect to the lower support rod while the rotating rod makes the recessed groove and the protrusion slide with the lifting and lowering thereof the locking member is appropriately tilted in accordance with this whereby the engagement relationship between the rotating rod and the locking member is kept constant irrespective of the height of the armrest . In addition the armrest and the rotating rod shown by chain lines in the drawing show a state state equivalent to where the armrest and the rotating rod have been lowered.

Since the rotating rod is arranged so as to run along a chord of the curved lifting and lowering track of the armrest or the like in the cross sectional view in the frontward rearward direction the angle with respect to the upper support cylinder or the like also changes. Since the upper end portion of the rotating rod is tiltable left and right even with respect to the upper support cylinder or the like the engagement relationship between the rotating rod and the slider is also kept equal irrespective of the height of the armrest . In the present embodiment the insertion hole for the rotating rod of the end cap mounted on the upper end portion of the rising portion forms an oval shape that is elongated in left right direction above the locking member and the left right tilt of the rotating rod is permitted.

In the height adjustment device of the present embodiment similar to the first embodiment the relative relationship among the rotating rod the locking member and the interlocking mechanism is substantially constant irrespective of the height of the armrest . Even if the armrest is at any height a light unlocking operation can be performed under the same conditions and the possibility of erroneous operation or malfunction can be reduced.

In the height adjustment device of the present embodiment the locking member is tiltably supported on the lower support rod . Accordingly even when the upper support cylinder or the rising portion of the lower support rod is curved and the rotating rod is lifted and lowered in the curved track the engagement relationship between the recessed groove of the rotating rod and the protrusion of the locking member can be kept equal irrespective of the up down position of the upper support cylinder or the rotating rod and the interlocking operation of these can be kept excellent. That is the operation using the operating lever provided in the armrest can be smoothly and reliably performed irrespective of the up down position of the armrest .

Next show a modification example of the second embodiment of the height adjustment device. A height adjustment device of this modification example is different from that of the second embodiment particularly in that this height adjustment device includes an actuating member instead of the rotating rod of the second embodiment. In addition although there are portions having different shapes or the like the same components as those of the second embodiment will be designated by the same reference numerals and a detailed description thereof will be omitted here.

As shown in the actuating member is supported on the upper support cylinder together with a relay member and is movable in the up down direction with respect to the lower support rod and the locking member together with the relay member the upper support cylinder and the inner cylinder . The actuating member keeps an action portion rear edge portion which is elongated frontward rearward with respect to the locking member engaged with the actuating member even if the actuating member is moved in the up down direction and makes the locking member movable in a direction rearward of the unlocking position even at any up down position.

The actuating member forms a band plate shape extending up and down and is arranged so as to be substantially orthogonal to the left right direction. An upper end portion of the actuating member is supported on an upper end portion of the upper support cylinder so as to be movable in the frontward rearward direction. The actuating member is permitted only to translate in the frontward rearward direction and tilt left and right with respect to the upper support cylinder .

A lower portion of the actuating member is inserted into the trunk portion of the locking member together with the relay member that operates in an interlocking manner with the operating lever . The relay member has a U shaped cross sectional shape that opens rearward extends up and down and slidably sandwiches the lower portion of the actuating member therein. The relay member is permitted only to translate in the up down direction and tilt integrally with the actuating member with respect to the upper support cylinder .

Left and right side wall portions of the relay member are formed with a plurality of two upper and lower stages in the drawings rearward inclined slit holes . Both side portions of a locking pin fixed to the actuating member are engaged with the respective slit holes respectively. In this state the relay member and the actuating member are inserted into the trunk portion of the locking member .

As shown in an upward force is input to an upper end protruding piece of the relay member by the operation of the operating lever . Accordingly if the relay member is lifted the locking pin and the actuating member move rearward along the respective slit holes . A rear edge portion of the actuating member is engaged with the rear wall portion of the trunk portion of the locking member from the front so as to be slidable up and down. The actuating member and the locking member operate in an interlocking manner via an interlocking mechanism including the rear edge portion and the rear wall portion .

That is the locking member is brought into the locking position by the biasing force of the compression coil spring during non operation of the operating lever refer to . If the operating lever is operated from this state the locking member is moved rearward against the biasing force together with the actuating member by the operation of the relay member and is brought into the unlocking position.

In addition the height adjustment device may have a configuration using the rising portion the upper support cylinder the inner cylinder and the locking member in the height adjustment device of the first embodiment.

In the above respective embodiments the height adjustment device and are enabled to adjust the height of the armrest of the armrest device of the chair with respect to the lower support rod . However the invention is not limited to this and can be widely applied as a height adjustment device for the movable member that is made movable in the up down direction with respect to the support in general fixtures.

Although the rising portion the upper support cylinder and the inner cylinder that form a curved shape in the cross sectional view in the frontward rearward direction are shown in the second embodiment these may be curved in the cross sectional view in the left right direction.

The invention is not limited only to the above respective embodiments and can be carried out for example in many modified aspects as follows without departing from the scope of the invention.

 1 A protruding strip extending in the up down direction is provided on an outer peripheral surface of the shank or of the rotating rod or the protruding strip fits into a recessed strip which is provided in the inner surface of the insertion hole of the locking member or and extends in the up down direction in a relatively movable manner one side surface of the recessed strip is pushed by the protruding strip through the rotation of the rotating rod or and the locking member or moves from the locking position to the unlocking position.

 2 The operating lever is formed in the shape of a pin that appears and disappears in the frontward rearward direction from the front surface of the upper support cylinder or and the eccentric portion of the forwardly directed abutting surface or in the rotating rod or is pushed by a rear end of the pin to rotate the rotating rod or in a desired direction.

 3 The rear end portion of the pin and the upper end portion of the rotating rod or in the above 2 are coupled together by a link directed to a direction orthogonal to the rotating rod or .

 4 The inner cylinder guide member or is not provided and an engaging portion is directly provided at the inner wall of the upper support cylinder movable member or instead of the engaging hole or . It is more preferable that the engaging portion in this case have a concavo convex shape or the like that is not exposed to the outside rather than a through hole or the like exposed to the outside.

In general fixtures such as a chair there is provided a height adjustment device in a fixture and an armrest device for a chair provided with the height adjustment device aimed at keeping the plurality of engaging portions from being exposed to the outside even if the movement stroke of the movable member is made large making an operation smooth using the operating lever provided at the movable member irrespective of the up down position or lifting and lowering track of the movable member always lightly performing locking and unlocking operations in the same manner irrespective of the up down position of the movable member and having little possibility of erroneous operation or malfunction.

