---

title: Enabling a user to verify a price change for an on-demand service
abstract: A method for enabling a user to verify a price change for an on-demand service is provided. One or more processors can determine a real-time price for providing the on-demand service to the user. The one or more processors can determine when the real-time price is equal to or exceeds a threshold price. In response to a request from the user for the on-demand service when the real-time price is equal to or exceeds the threshold price, an intermediate interface can be provided that the user is to correctly respond to before a service request can be transmitted to a service system.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09305310&OS=09305310&RS=09305310
owner: Uber Technologies, Inc.
number: 09305310
owner_city: San Francsico
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130314
---
This application claims benefit of priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 612 471 filed Mar. 19 2012 the aforementioned application being incorporated by reference in its entirety.

There are many real world services that a user can access through a mobile computing device. Typically such services operate under a fixed pricing scheme. With the availability of mobile communications however demand for such services can vary dramatically.

Embodiments described herein provide for a system that dynamically adjusts prices for services based on real time conditions at a particular time. The dynamically adjusted price can be displayed to a user of a computing device that requests the service and the service can be provided to the user at the adjusted price.

According to embodiments the system determines or approximates an amount of users or requesters for a particular service at a given time. A service that is requested by a user or requester using a mobile computing device can include on demand services geographically based or location based services and or transport services. Such services can include for example a delivery service a babysitting service an entertainment service a moving service a food service or a taxi service. The system determines or approximates an amount of available service providers for providing the service at the given time. Based on the determined amount of requesters and the determined amount of available service providers the system adjusts a price relative to a default price for using the service provided by one or more service providers.

Still further the system can transmit pricing data that corresponds to the adjusted price to a requesting device s e.g. a computing device of a customer or requesting user and or to a provider device s e.g. a computing device of a service provider or supplier . The computing devices that receive the pricing data can display the adjusted price such as part of a user interface on their respective displays to indicate an adjustment in price as compared to the default price. The requesting user and or the service provider can operate their respective computing devices to view the adjusted price and choose to consent to the adjusted price for using the service and or for providing the service respectively.

In some embodiments the system can determine the amount of requesters for a service and or the amount of available service providers based on data received from one or more requesting devices and or data received from one or more provider devices at a given instance in time or time period. The system can also make the determinations based on historical data stored in a memory resource or database of the system that is comparable to the given instance in time or time period.

As described herein a user a requester or a customer are invariably used to refer to individuals that are requesting or ordering a service. Also as described herein a provider a service provider a supplier or a vendor are invariably used to refer to individuals or entities that can provide the service. As an example a user can request a service such as a transportation or delivery service e.g. food delivery messenger service food truck service or product shipping or an entertainment service e.g. mariachi band string quartet using the system and a service provider such as a driver food provider band etc. can communicate with the system and or the user to arrange for the service. In addition as described herein requesting devices and provider devices refer to computing devices that can correspond to desktop computers cellular or smartphones laptop computers tablet devices television IP Television etc. that can provide network connectivity and processing resources for enabling a user to communicate with a system over a network. A provider device can also correspond to taxi meters or other metering devices.

One or more embodiments described herein provide that methods techniques and actions performed by a computing device are performed programmatically or as a computer implemented method. Programmatically as used herein means through the use of code or computer executable instructions. These instructions can be stored in one or more memory resources of the computing device. A programmatically performed step may or may not be automatic.

One or more embodiments described herein can be implemented using programmatic modules engines or components. A programmatic module engine or component can include a program a sub routine a portion of a program or a software component or a hardware component capable of performing one or more stated tasks or functions. As used herein a module or component can exist on a hardware component independently of other modules or components. Alternatively a module or component can be a shared element or process of other modules programs or machines.

Some embodiments described herein can generally require the use of computing devices including processing and memory resources. For example one or more embodiments described herein may be implemented in whole or in part on computing devices such as servers desktop computers cellular or smartphones laptop computers printers digital picture frames network equipments e.g. routers and tablet devices. Memory processing and network resources may all be used in connection with the establishment use or performance of any embodiment described herein including with the performance of any method or with the implementation of any system .

Furthermore one or more embodiments described herein may be implemented through the use of instructions that are executable by one or more processors. These instructions may be carried on a computer readable medium. Machines shown or described with figures below provide examples of processing resources and computer readable mediums on which instructions for implementing embodiments described herein can be carried and or executed. In particular the numerous machines shown with examples described herein include processor s and various forms of memory for holding data and instructions. Examples of computer readable mediums include permanent memory storage devices such as hard drives on personal computers or servers. Other examples of computer storage mediums include portable storage units such as CD or DVD units flash memory such as carried on smartphones multifunctional devices or tablets and magnetic memory. Computers terminals network enabled devices e.g. mobile devices such as cell phones are all examples of machines and devices that utilize processors memory and instructions stored on computer readable mediums. Additionally embodiments may be implemented in the form of computer programs or a computer usable carrier medium capable of carrying such a program.

System includes a device interface a requester management a provider management a system database s a price adjustment and a transaction component . In one implementation the components of system can combine to enable a service to be arranged between customers e.g. users who operate one or more requesting devices and service providers e.g. individuals or entities who operate one or more provider devices . For example the components of system can be implemented on network side resources such as on one or more servers. System can also be implemented through other computer systems in alternative architectures e.g. peer to peer networks etc. .

As an alternative or addition some or all of the components of system can be implemented on client machines such as through applications that operate on the requesting devices and or provider devices . For example a client application can execute to perform one or more of the processes described by the various components of system . System can communicate over a network via a network interface e.g. wirelessly or using a wireline to communicate with the one or more requesting devices and the one or more provider devices .

The device interface manages communications between system and the requesting devices and the provider devices over a network. Each of the requesting devices can download store and operate an application s that can interface with the device interface in order to provide information to and or receive information from the device interface . Similarly service providers can operate their respective provider devices to download store and operate an application s e.g. a different application than the application used by a customer or the same application that can interface with the device interface . For example the applications can include or use an application programming interface API such as an externally facing API to communicate data with the device interface . The externally facing API can provide access to system via secure access channels over the network through any number of methods such as web based forms programmatic access via restful APIs Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP remote procedure call RPC scripting access etc. while also providing secure access methods including key based access to ensure system remains secure and only authorized users service providers and or third parties can gain access to system .

Depending on different variations the device interface can receive over a network requester data from one or more requesting devices and or provider data from one or more provider devices at different times. In one implementation system can be configured e.g. by an administrator that is not the customer or the service provider to receive data from the requesting devices and or the provider devices at a particular time or every time a device accesses its respective application. For example the device interface can receive the requester data and or the provider data periodically at different instances in time or based on a set schedule. The device interface can also receive the data for different durations in time e.g. receive data for durations of five minute thirty minutes twenty four hours etc. . In some implementations data can be received from a requesting device when a user launches or operates the application or performs other actions relating to the application or the requesting device while the application is being run . Similarly data can be received from a provider device when a service provider launches or operates the application stored on the provider device or performs other actions relating to the application or the requesting device while the application is being run .

Using requester data received from the requesting devices and provider data received from the provider devices system can determine current up to date information about supply and demand conditions in order to properly set or adjust a price for a service. In some examples the requester data can be used in part to determine the current number and or the current location of requesters for the service e.g. this can represent the demand for the service at a given time. Similarly the provider data can be used in part to determine the current number and or the current location of available service providers capable of fulfilling the service at the given time e.g. this can represent the supply for fulfilling the service .

Depending on implementations the requester data can include data indicating i a requesting device launching an application used for requesting the service ii a requesting device requesting the service using the application e.g. place an order iii a requesting device closing or shutting down the application iv a current location of a requesting device v a destination or service location requested by a requesting device vi a route requested by a requesting device vii a type of service e.g. a type or class of vehicle or a type of food service requested by a requesting device viii a profile associated with a requesting device e.g. a user s profile and or account ix a beginning time to start the service or x an ending time for completion of the service.

For example when a customer launches the application using a smartphone in order to request a service the application can cause data such as the customer s profile account information the current location of the customer e.g. the current location of the device and the service destination of the customer to be provided to the device interface over the network. Other types of requester data can also be received from the requesting devices such as the current date and time the number of people requesting the service using the requesting device e.g. the number of people in the party the type of the requesting device and version information of the application running on the requesting device.

In other examples the provider data can include data indicating i an availability of a service provider ii a current state of a service provider e.g. currently providing a service currently idle out of commission etc. iii a current location of a provider device iv a type of service e.g. a type or class of vehicle of a service provider v a current data or time or vi a profile associated with a provider device e.g. a service provider s profile and or account . The provider data can also include data that indicates the type of the provider device and version information of the application running on the provider device. Once the data is received and or while the data is being received over the network the device interface can provide the received requester data and the received provider data to requester management and provider management respectively.

The requester management and the provider management each receives requester data and provider data respectively handles the data processes the data to determine relevant information for adjusting prices and stores the data in one or more memory resources e.g. in one or more databases that are accessible by components of system . In one example the requester management processes requester data that has been transmitted to system by the requesting devices while the provider management processes provider data that has been transmitted to system by the provider devices . In another variation a single management component can process all the data received from the various devices. Because the device interface can receive a large amount of data from the requesting devices and the provider devices the requester management and the provider management handles and organizes the requester data and the provider data for storage in one or more databases . For example some of the data can be deleted categorized organized into tables e.g. based on time and or date etc. so that components of system can easily access the data from the databases to retrieve necessary information.

In some variations each of the requester management and the provider management can also handle the authentication of the respective devices and their users for interacting with system . For example for each requesting device that provides requester data to system e.g. in response to the users operating the application for requesting a service the requester data can include account or user information provided by the user e.g. after the user logs in to the service via the application using a log in and password . The requester management can authenticate the users before enabling the users to request the service. The requester management for example can compare the log in information with account or user information stored in a database e.g. in response to the user previously registering or registering his or her devices to determine if there is a match. Similarly the provider management can authenticate the service providers and their provider devices to verify the identity of the service provider. In some implementations the requesting devices and the provider devices can exchange information e.g. allow data sharing over the network with the device interface only after the users and service providers have been authenticated.

The requester management and the provider management can also process and parse the received data in order to determine relevant information that the price adjustment can use in order to adjust a price for a service. At a given time for example at an instance in time every five minutes or every ten minutes the price adjustment can adjust a price for the service based on the amount of requesters that are requesting e.g. attempting to order the service and the amount of available service providers that can fulfill the requests. The parsed data can correspond to information that can be used by the price adjustment to determine or approximate an amount of requesters for a service at a given time and an amount of available service providers at the given time.

The requester management and the provider management can provide parsed data to the price adjustment that includes information about the current time the current location of the requesting devices and the provider devices e.g. where the service provider is currently located to determine if he or she is available for fulfilling service requests to those in a particular geographic area the current state of the service provider or the service provider s vehicle the type of vehicles that are being requested and or the requested destination or service locations of the requesters. For example the price for a transportation service pickup and drop off can be adjusted for different users and different service providers e.g. drivers based on the current time and the current location of the requesting devices and the provider devices . The number of requesters and the number of available drivers can vary depending on a particular geographic area e.g. a city a metropolitan area or groups of towns .

For example in San Francisco there can be a high number of requesters at a certain time e.g. around 10 pm after a baseball game has ended where transportation services or food services are requested so that there is a spike in demand while supply e.g. the availability of service providers or drivers remains the same. In comparison in a nearby city such as San Jose there is no spike in demand for the transportation services or food services at the same time. Due to the limited availability e.g. inventory of drivers and vehicles system can adjust the price for the service e.g. increase the cost for the requesters in San Francisco or to requesters in a region within San Francisco . For those requesters and service providers the price for the particular service can be adjusted e.g. increased while the price e.g. the default price value for other requesters and services providers in other areas remains the same. The parsed data can also be stored in one of the system databases such as a pricing data database so that the price adjustment can retrieve previously parsed data at different times.

The requester management and the provider management can continually or periodically store requester data and provider data as well as the parsed data to the appropriate system databases so that a historical record can be maintained. The historical record can include requester data and provider data received at particular dates and times previously received by system . In some examples the historical data can also be used to approximate the amount of requesters and the amount of service providers at a particular geographic region at a certain time and or date. In this manner information can be collected stored and maintained for future use e.g. for price adjustment at a later time or for predicting future supply and demand for the service . For example the data collected on Friday evenings can be useful in predicting supply and demand for future Friday evenings e.g. can be used to determine trends . Forecasting future spikes in demand for example can be useful in making sure a sufficient amount of service providers are available at the future time to meet the high demands.

The system databases can also include a rules or models database which store entries corresponding to rules and or models used by the price adjustment for making dynamic pricing decisions. For example the models can include relevant economic models for adjusting prices for services based on supply and demand. The rules and models database can include rules for limiting the increase or decrease in price adjustment e.g. set a ceiling and or a floor . For example a rule can place a limit on the price for the service to be adjusted by preventing the price from being adjusted to more than three times the default price e.g. max increasing adjustment is 3 . Similarly the limit can prevent the price from being adjusted to less than 0.5 times the default price e.g. max decreasing adjustment is 0.5 .

The price adjustment determines or approximates an amount of requesters for a service at a given time and an amount of available service providers at the given time e.g. a set of available service providers that can fulfill the service requests for a set of requesters in a given area and at the given time . In one implementation the price adjustment can make these determinations by using parsed data received directly from the requester management and the provider management and or retrieved from one or more system databases and or by using historical data retrieved from one or more system databases . The historical data that is used by the price adjustment can be data that is comparable to the given time. For example if the price adjustment is configured to make an adjustment on a holiday such as at night at 9 pm on Halloween October 31 the price adjustment can use historical data that is comparable to previous Halloweens e.g. data from Halloween for the last three years or the last five years that were provided by requesting devices and provider devices around the same time e.g. night . The price adjustment can also use historical data that in a more specific manner for example by using historical data that corresponds to data received at 9 pm every night for the past month.

Based on the determined locations and amount of requesters and the determined locations and amount of available service providers the price adjustment can apply one or more rules or models in order to determine whether to adjust a price for the service. For example a model or metric that the price adjustment can use to adjust the price for a service can be based on a utilization parameter. The utilization parameter can indicate a percentage e.g. 70 or 80 of service providers that are currently performing or providing the service compared to the total number of service providers in the inventory. For example using the determined amounts and locations the utilization parameter can indicate that out of a possible 100 service providers in a given area 80 of them are currently servicing users e.g. a utilization of 80 . The model or metric can set a threshold amount e.g. percentage that the price adjustment can use to determine whether to adjust the price. The model can provide that prices should remain the same for example if the utilization percentage is between 60 and 80 e.g. prices are ideal where they are . On the other hand if the utilization percentage is less than 60 the price can be reduced or decreased and if the utilization percentage is greater than 80 the price can be increased. In other variations the model can be a supply and demand model that compares the amount of requesters compared to the amount of available service providers and increases or decreases the price based on the comparison.

The price adjustment can adjust the price relative to a default price by using multipliers. For example the price adjustment can determine that the price needs to be increased for the service e.g. there is a high number of requester and a low number of available service providers respectively . In one implementation the price adjustment can apply a multiplier such as 1.5 to indicate that the price needs to be increased by 1.5 times the default price value. Similarly the price adjustment can decrease the price using a multiplier such as 0.75 to indicate that the price needs to be decreased by 0.75 times the default price value. In another example prices can be adjusted by simply adding or subtracting a value.

A default price or price value can correspond to different types of fees or costs for a service. For example the default price can be a cost per amount of time e.g. dollar per minute a cost per amount of distance traveled e.g. dollar per mile a flat fee or rate or a combination of any of the different types of fees or costs. In addition the default price can be dependent on the particular requests or specific requirements set by a requester or a service provider. For example the service can cost a certain amount e.g. a default price for different geographic locations at different times at different pickup or drop off locations for types of vehicles requested for different amounts of users riding the same vehicle or a combination of any of the different requests or requirements. Depending on different implementations the price adjustment can adjust the price relative to the default price for any type of fee structure e.g. by using a multiplier .

The price adjustment can also use data provided by outside sources or other stored data from the system databases to predict approximate or determine locations and amount of requesters and locations and amount of available service providers. For example for different geographic regions event information such as location of the event the time the date etc. can be stored in an event database . Event information can be indicative of whether requests can be higher or lower at a certain time period e.g. a time period before the event begins versus a time period when the event is ongoing and can be indicative of whether there is a spike in demand for the service relative to the amount of available service providers. In another example calendar information that indicates holidays first days of school for a city voting day etc. can be used by the price adjustment . Other examples of outside sources or other stored data current and or historic include weather conditions news information e.g. fires emergency situations social information via social networking websites traffic conditions flight information from airports and or airlines etc. or other information that can assist in determining supply and or demand for the service.

After the price has been adjusted the price adjustment can then provide the adjusted price to the device interface and the transaction component . The device interface can transmit data corresponding to the adjusted price over the network to one or more requesting devices and or one or more provider devices . The applications running on the devices can use the adjusted price data to display on a user interface of the application the price adjustment to the requester s and the service provider s respectively. In this manner the requesters and service providers can be notified of the current adjusted price relative to the default price so that the parties can choose to order the service and provide the service respectively at the adjusted price. The adjusted price data can also provide information as to the duration the adjusted price is valid for as well as the reasoning for the price adjustment.

Once the price adjustment adjusts the price at a given time that price can be fixed for a duration of time. For example the adjusted price can be valid for the service for five minutes or ten minutes before it changes for one or more requesters or a group of requesters and one or more service providers or a group of service providers . During this duration a requester or group of requesters can order the service and a service provider or group of service providers can agree to provide the service at the adjusted price. In some implementations after the duration of time has passed the price for the service can be adjusted again e.g. the price adjustment can perform another adjustment or can be reset back to the default value.

In one example the price adjustment can also provide the adjusted price to a system database such as a pricing database or any other database discussed with respect to system so that it can be stored and maintained as historical data. For example the instance in time in which the price was adjusted date and time can be paired and stored with the adjustment in price increased or decreased the geographic location or area e.g. a particular city and the determined amount of requesters and available service providers. The price adjustment can use the stored historical data with the adjusted price information for example in order to adjust the price for a service at a later time.

The price adjustment also provides the adjusted price to the transaction component so that system can charge an account of a requester and credit an account of a service provider at the adjusted price during the duration in which the adjusted price is valid . When a requester interacts with her respective requesting device to order the service data corresponding to the request can be provided over the network to the device interface . The device interface can notify one or more provider devices that qualify as a service provider for fulfilling the order or request of the service request so that one or more service providers can choose to accept the order e.g. provide information about the specifics the requester is requesting such as the user s name and or phone number the pickup location the type of vehicle the destination etc. . For example a qualifying and available service provider can be a provider that is in the same geographic area e.g. within the same neighborhood or city and or within a threshold distance or time away from the user and or can fulfill particular requirements or needs amount of people a vehicle can carry the type of vehicle the destination etc. One or more of the qualifying and available service providers can accept the order and provide a confirmation to the device interface over the network.

Once the necessary service information is exchanged between system and the parties engaged in the service the device interface then provides the transaction request to the transaction component . The transaction request notifies the transaction component that a service has been arranged and a transaction has been entered into so that the transaction component can handle the financial processing of the parties. The transaction component implements the dynamically adjusted price at the time of the transaction and interfaces with the financial institutions e.g. banks credit card companies etc. to charge an account associated with the requesting device e.g. the user s account and credit an account associated with the provider device e.g. the service provider s account . In one variation the transaction component can also communicate with other components of system such as the requester management and the provider management to verify and or authenticate the requesters and service providers.

The transaction component can charge credit the accounts of the parties at the time of the transaction during the time when service is being provided after the service has been completed or after one or both parties indicates completion of the service. A transaction confirmation can be provided to the device interface to indicate that the financial transaction e.g. the crediting and or the charging was successful or unsuccessful. The device interface can provide the transaction confirmation to the requesting device and or the provider device . In one example the device interface can provide various messages and confirmations such as the transaction confirmation using different messaging transports such as through text messages e.g. SMS email messages instant messages or messages used by the application s running on the respective devices e.g. alerts . The transaction confirmation can provide information detailing the service as well as the adjusted price if any that the parties agreed to operate under.

In some implementations system can also communicate with other third party services not shown in to provide updated pricing information. Other third party services can have the option to participate with the dynamic price adjustment system so that system can enable services to be arranged between parties e.g. other companies entities individuals that are interested in requesting a service or providing a service .

The price adjustment system makes a determination of an amount of requesters for a service at a given time in a given location or region and an amount of available service providers for providing the service step . In some examples the system can make the determinations based on historical data that has been stored and maintained in one or more databases sub step . For example data previously provided by requester devices and provider devices can be stored with time date and or location information to indicate instances when requesters have requested the service and when service providers were available to satisfy service requests for a given region or area . The system can make the determinations at a given time by retrieving historical data that is comparable in time and location to the given time. In one variation the system can approximate the amount of requesters for the service and the amount of available service providers and or predict forecast the amount of requesters for the service and the amount of available service providers for a future time using the historical data.

The system can also make the determinations based on current conditions sub step . The current conditions relating to the service requests and service providers can be based on recently received data provided by the requester devices and the provider devices. For example data is received constantly and or periodically in real time e.g. on the fly from the requester devices and the provider devices whenever the respective users and service providers operate applications on their devices. If the system is scheduled or configured to adjust prices every five minutes for example the can use requester data and provider data received during a prior five minute duration or prior fifteen minutes or thirty minutes etc. to determine current conditions e.g. device locations destinations states of service providers specific requests etc. .

Once the amount of requesters and the amount of available service providers are determined a price can be adjusted for the service relative to a default price based on the determined amounts and determined device locations step . The price can be adjusted based on one or more rules and or models. For example if the system determines that the amount of requesters significantly exceeds the amount of available service providers e.g. demand is much higher than supply the price for the service can be increased by an amount or by a multiplier. In another example a model can be based on utilization percentages to determine the amounts or multipliers of price adjustments.

The adjusted prices are provided to the requester devices and or the provider devices step . The applications that are running on the requester and provider devices can use data corresponding to the adjusted prices in order to display a pricing user interface as part of the application to the respective users and service providers. The requesters and service providers can be notified of the current adjusted price relative to the default price so that the parties can choose to order the service and provide the service respectively at the adjusted price. The one or more requesters can order the service at the adjusted price by interacting with the application and one or more service providers can accept the order to fulfill the service request again by interacting with the application . In this manner the price adjustment system can arrange services between parties and dynamically adjust the prices for the services.

Depending on implementation the method described in can be performed on a computing device such as a requesting device that is operated by a user requesting an on demand service. For example a processor of the requesting device can operate an application that communicates with a service system such as system of to perform one or more steps described in . The computing device can determine a real time price for providing the on demand service for the user . The real time price can be a default price or a price that is set based on the user s current location. In some cases such as discussed with and a real time price for an on demand service can be adjusted e.g. increased or decreased based on current conditions.

The computing device can determine the real time price by communicating with a service system which can dynamically adjust a real time price for an on demand service. For example the application running on the computing device can receive a wireless communication from the service system that indicates that the real time price has increased or decreased. The real time price can correspond to a flat amount an amount per time spent during performance of the service and or an amount per distance traveled e.g. mile during performance of the service. The real time price can also be represented as a multiplier of a standard price or default price for the on demand service e.g. represented as 1.5 2 or 5 the default price .

Once the real time price is determined the computing device can determine whether the real time price is equal to or greater than a threshold or threshold price . Depending on the type of real time price the threshold or threshold price can be a flat amount threshold e.g. 30 for the service a rate per time or distance threshold e.g. 4 per min or 8 per mile and or a multiplier threshold e.g. 4 default price . For example the real time price for providing the service can be determined to be four times 4 the default price while the threshold can be a multiplier representing three times 3 the default price. The computing device can compare the real time price with a threshold price e.g. that stored in a memory of the computing device and or received from the service system in order to determine whether the real time price is equal to or greater than the threshold. In one example the threshold can be configured by the user via one or more settings of the application or the computing device and or an administrator of the service system. In the latter case when the threshold is adjusted the service system can communicate the threshold to the computing device.

In some examples if the real time price is less than the threshold the user can request the on demand service by navigating through one or more user interfaces such as a confirmation user interface without answering a question or prompt that relate to the real time price . The computing device can then provide the service request to the service system e.g. wirelessly transmit a service request in response to a user request . On the other hand if the real time price is greater than or equal to the threshold when the user requests the on demand service an intermediate user interface is provided that the user is to correctly respond to before the user can make a request for the on demand service . The intermediate user interface can provide a prompt or one or more questions that pertain to the real time price for the user to correctly answer.

According to various examples the intermediate user interface can instruct or request the user to confirm the real time price or request the user to answer one or more questions. A text field can be provided to receive one or more characters that are inputted by the user e.g. via one or more input mechanisms microphone etc. . For example the intermediate user interface can provide a prompt that states Type 5.0 to confirm the surge rate and the text field for the user to input the characters 5.0. In another example the application running on the computing device can display a sequence of intermediate user interfaces that each includes a question e.g. three questions on three interfaces that must each be answered correctly one after another. As an addition or an alternative the service system can determine which intermediate user interface is to be displayed by the application e.g. single prompt vs. multiple questions in one interface or in sequential interfaces .

If the user s input is incorrect the user is prevented from communicating a request for the service to the service system. In one example the intermediate interface can continue to be displayed with a graphic or text indicating that the user s input was incorrect. In other examples other user interfaces can be presented to the user e.g. the home page interface for the application a frequently asked questions interface a contact service system interface etc. to provide the user with additional guidance. If the user s input is correct however the user can then request the on demand service by navigating through one or more user interfaces such as a confirmation user interface . In this manner when the real time price has increased significantly e.g. such as to be above a threshold price a safeguard can be provided to the user so that the user can fully understand and recognize the increase in the real time price before finalizing a request for the on demand service.

When a user launches and operates the service application a variety of different user interfaces can be provided on the display of the device depending on the different stages or steps during the request process. For example the service application can first display a log in user interface where a user must first enter in a user name or other user identifier such as an email address and a password in order to log in to the application and to be able to interact with system . After logging in the service application can display a user interface that illustrates the current location of the user e.g. by using resources of the device such as a global position system GPS of the device . In one implementation a map can be provided showing a geographic region or area that the user and user s device is currently located at. The current location of the device can be indicated with a graphic . In another example the user interface can also provide a location identifier of the current location e.g. an address a latitude longitude a name of the area or a name of the building or store etc. .

The user interface can also provide information about the available service providers that are proximate to the current location of the user. For example the user interface can provide service provider information indicating how far the nearest available service provider is from the user e.g. in terms of distance or time . In some variations the map can also illustrate one or more graphics not shown in showing the current location of one or more available service providers. The user can interact with the map to change view e.g. zoom in or zoom out or pan e.g. move the map left right up down etc. to see the current location of the available service providers and select one or more graphics to obtain additional information about the selected available service provider e.g. where the available service provider is who the service provider is what kind of vehicle the service provider is driving etc. .

By operating the service application the user can order the service by selecting on a feature for requesting the service e.g. request a pickup for a transportation service or request a dessert food service such as ice cream trucks . The user interface can also provide a selectable graphic that indicates that the price for the service has been adjusted e.g. as a result of system adjusting the price for the service as described with respect to . In one implementation when the price has been adjusted the graphic can be an image that can be changed in order to better indicate current conditions. For example the graphic does not have to appear on the user interface if the price has not been adjusted by system the graphic can be a default graphic e.g. a dollar symbol or the graphic can be changed to a graphic based on the current date and or time e.g. a U.S. flag representing the Fourth of July or a pumpkin representing Halloween etc. . When the user selects the graphic and or requests pickup by selecting the feature additional information about the adjusted price can be provided on a pricing user interface as illustrated in .

For example the pricing user interface indicates to the user that the price has been adjusted e.g. increased or decreased relative to the default price and can provide a reason for the adjustment. The pricing user interface can inform the user of the adjustment by using a multiplier that indicates the amount the price has been adjusted e.g. 1.5 times the default price or 0.5 times the default price . The pricing user interface can also provide a selectable feature that enables a user to continue with the request for the service e.g. at the adjusted price and or a selectable feature that enables the user to cancel the request for the service. If the user selects the feature to continue with the request the application transmits the request to system for processing and system enables the service to be arranged between the user and one or more service providers.

The pricing user interface provides another feature or pricing indication such as a graphic and or text that informs that user of the amount of the pricing adjustment relative to the default price e.g. increased or decreased . The service application that provides the pricing user interface can use the adjusted price data e.g. the adjusted price data provided by system in to display the pricing indication . The pricing indication can provide a multiplier e.g. 1.25 that indicates the amount the price has been adjusted e.g. the adjusted price is 1.25 times the default price . In some variations the pricing interface can also include an approximate price range that informs the user of the approximate cost for the service based on the adjusted price e.g. the current average or range of price . The pricing interface can also include a timer or duration of time that informs the user that the adjusted price expires after a certain amount of time. Once the amount of time has surpassed the adjusted price can be increased further e.g. 1.5 or decreased based on current conditions and or historical data.

The pricing user interface also provides a variety of selectable features that the user can select for performing different actions e.g. tap on the selectable features on a touch sensitive display of the computing device . In one example the pricing user interface can include a selectable feature e.g. Continue that enables a user to continue with the request for the service e.g. at the adjusted price . The pricing user interface can also include a selectable feature that when selected by the user provides additional information about the adjusted price and or general information about dynamic pricing e.g. via a different user interface or a pop up user interface that overlays the pricing user interface . The pricing user interface also includes a selectable feature that enables the user to cancel the request for the service. If the user selects the feature to continue with the request the application transmits the request to system for processing and system enables the service to be arranged between the user and one or more service providers.

A service request interface of can enable a user to select a particular vehicle for requesting a transport service. Before making the request the user can view details about a particular vehicle such as a taxi a black car or sedan or an SUV and its estimated time of arrival to the user s location and its minimum fare. The user can also select a feature for viewing details about the rates for the selected vehicle type as indicated by a selection feature . The service request interface can also provide a graphic indicator that represents to the user that the real time price for the transport service has been adjusted e.g. increased . In some cases the graphic indicator can indicate the price increase for one or more particular types of vehicle but not for another type s such as for the black car but not the taxi or SUV as evidenced by the lack of the graphic indicator for the taxi and the SUV vehicle types . The minimum fare or estimated fare can also be adjusted to reflect the real time price or rate.

A pricing user interface of e.g. similar to the pricing user interface of can also be presented on the display of the computing device to provide additional information about the real time pricing. In one example the pricing user interface can be displayed in response to a user input to request the transport service or in response to the user selecting the feature of . The pricing user interface can include a pricing indicator that includes a plurality of different pricing information. For example the pricing information can include a multiplier as compared to the normal fare or default price e.g. 3.0 more a minimum fare amount a price per time spent and or a price per distance traveled that corresponds to the adjusted real time price.

For example based on the multiplier 3 the pricing information reflects that the minimum fare has increased from 15 to 45 while the rate pricing has increased from 1.25 min to 3.75 min and from 4.90 mile to 14.70 mile. The real time price information is displayed to the user so that the user can understand the price increase and the obligation to pay the required price for the on demand service. If the user accepts the higher price the user can select the accept feature . If the user does not accept the user can close the application or select the x feature to cancel out of the request. In some cases if the user does not perform any action and a duration of time elapses such as the time displayed the real time price can expire.

As discussed in an application running on the computing device can determine the real time price for the transport service and compare the real time price with a threshold price. Depending on implementation the computing device can make the determination whether the real time price is greater than or equal to the threshold price at different times. For example the application can determine the real time price and or make the real time price and threshold price comparison i when the application is launched or opened ii when the application first communicates with the service system after being launched and or iii when the user makes a service request on any of the interfaces described in .

If the real time price is greater than or equal to the threshold price the application can provide an intermediate user interface to the user as illustrated in . On the other hand if the real time price is less than the threshold price the application can provide a confirmation user interface as illustrated in . For example the threshold can be set as 2.5 times the default or normal price and the real time price can be three times the default price. The application can present the intermediate user interface in response to the real time price being greater than or equal to the threshold price and the user requesting the service. In one example the user can select the accept feature such as described in to request the transport service.

The intermediate user interface can include a prompt or one or more questions pertaining to the price increase and a text field or input field to receive one or more characters inputted by the user. The user can verify that the user recognizes the price increase by entering the correct answer to the prompt or question s before a service request can be made to the service system. If for example the user does not input 3.0 to confirm the surge rate or increased real time price the user can be prevented from requesting the transport service. In this manner the intermediate user interface provides a security measure or precaution for the user before the user accepts a much higher price when requesting the transport service.

Once the user answers the prompt or question s correctly e.g. passes the pricing sobriety test a confirmation user interface of can be presented to enable the user to confirm the information provided for the transport service and request the service. The user can select the request feature to request the transport service. The application can transmit the service request to the transport service system using the information provided by the user for the transport service. The confirmation user interface can also provide a fare estimate feature that the user can select to view the estimated fare for the transport service based on the real time price.

For example if the user selects the fare estimate feature a fare estimate user interface can be provided as illustrated in . The fare estimate user interface can enable a user to input a drop off location e.g. by inputting a city region address etc. or select a drop off location previously used recently by the user. Based on the current location or pick up location designated by the user the drop off location and the current real time price the application on the computing device can calculate and display the estimated fare as part of the fare estimate user interface of . The user can estimate other fares by changing the destination via interactions with additional features .

In one implementation computer system includes processing resources main memory ROM storage device and communication interface . Computer system includes at least one processor for processing information. Computer system also includes a main memory such as a random access memory RAM or other dynamic storage device for storing information and instructions to be executed by the processor . Main memory also may be used for storing temporary variables or other intermediate information during execution of instructions to be executed by processor . Computer system may also include a read only memory ROM or other static storage device for storing static information and instructions for processor . A storage device such as a magnetic disk or optical disk is provided for storing information and instructions.

The communication interface can enable the computer system to communicate with one or more networks e.g. cellular network through use of the network link wireless or wireline . Using the network link the computer system can communicate with one or more computing devices and one or more servers. In some variations the computer system can be configured to receive requester data and or provider data from one or more computing devices e.g. belonging to users and service providers respectively via the network link. The requester data and or provider data can be processed by the processor and can be stored in for example the storage device . The processor can process the received data and other data such as historical data in order to adjust the price for a service relative to a default price. The adjusted price data can be transmitted to the requester device s and or the provider device s over the network .

Computer system can also include a display device such as a cathode ray tube CRT an LCD monitor or a television set for example for displaying graphics and information to a user. An input mechanism such as a keyboard that includes alphanumeric keys and other keys can be coupled to computer system for communicating information and command selections to processor . Other non limiting illustrative examples of input mechanisms include a mouse a trackball touch sensitive screen or cursor direction keys for communicating direction information and command selections to processor and for controlling cursor movement on display .

Examples described herein are related to the use of computer system for implementing the techniques described herein. According to one embodiment those techniques are performed by computer system in response to processor executing one or more sequences of one or more instructions contained in main memory . Such instructions may be read into main memory from another machine readable medium such as storage device . Execution of the sequences of instructions contained in main memory causes processor to perform the process steps described herein. In alternative implementations hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement examples described herein. Thus the examples described are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.

The processor is configured with software and or other logic to perform one or more processes steps and other functions described with implementations such as described by and elsewhere in the application. Processor is configured with instructions and data stored in the memory resources to operate a service application as described in . For example instructions for operating the service application in order to display various user interfaces such as described in can be stored in the memory resources of the computing device . A user can operate the service application so that location data can be received by the GPS component . The location data can provide the current location of the computing device that can be used by system as described in in arranging the service and in providing adjusted pricing if any . The communication sub systems can receive adjusted price data over a network from system and provide the adjusted price to the processor for displaying the adjusted price to the user.

The processor can provide content to the display by executing instructions and or applications that are stored in the memory resources . In some examples user interfaces can be provided by the processor based on the adjusted or real time price such as a pricing user interface an intermediate user interface etc. as described with . While is illustrated for a mobile computing device one or more embodiments may be implemented on other types of devices including full functional computers such as laptops and desktops e.g. PC .

It is contemplated for examples described herein to extend to individual elements and concepts described herein independently of other concepts ideas or system as well as for examples to include combinations of elements recited anywhere in this application. Although examples are described in detail herein with reference to the accompanying drawings it is to be understood that the examples are not limited to those precise descriptions and illustrations. As such many modifications and variations will be apparent to practitioners. Accordingly it is contemplated that a particular feature described either individually or as part of an example can be combined with other individually described features or parts of other examples even if the other features and examples make no mentioned of the particular feature.

