---

title: Remotely controlled crowd-sourced media capture
abstract: The disclosed technology receives at a second computing device a message from a first computing device comprising at least an indication of a physical motion, a requested motion, or an indication of a camera control operation. The indicated motion can correspond to a physical motion made to the first computing device. The indicated camera control operation can correspond to a camera control operation made at the first computing device. The technology requests to physically move the second computing device if the received message indicates a motion; and controls a digital camera associated with the second computing device if the received message indicates a camera control operation made at the first computing device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09350909&OS=09350909&RS=09350909
owner: Empire Technology Development LLC
number: 09350909
owner_city: Wilmington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130201
---
The present application is a U.S. national phase application under 35 U.S.C. 371 of International Application No. PCT US13 24508 filed on Feb. 1 2013.

People sometimes desire to watch or hear what is going on at remote locations. For example television has a long history of enabling viewers to see events occurring virtually anywhere in the world even as the events occur live. To broadcast events television broadcasters may deploy television crews with television cameras reporters and technical staff. Television crews can include multiple camera operators and cameras e.g. to capture events from different viewpoints or angles. Deploying television crews however is an expensive and time consuming proposition because of the size of equipment and manpower that is required. Moreover television broadcasters may be unable to deploy television crews until after a newsworthy event has already completed because of the time required to organize the equipment manpower and travel itinerary.

Mobile computing devices e.g. mobile telephones tablet computers and other handheld computing devices typically have video and audio capture devices e.g. cameras microphones etc. These types of mobile computing devices are now in use almost everywhere around the world and are becoming ubiquitous. Some of these mobile computing devices have video and audio capture devices that rival professional broadcast equipment used by television crews. Recently mobile telephones have included video capture devices that produce high definition video. It is anticipated that future mobile computing devices will be able to produce even better quality audio and video suitable for broadcast television.

Although users of mobile computing devices capture photographs video and or audio e.g. to share this media with others it is generally not possible for people to capture media under direction of unknown parties. For example although a user may be nearby a location where a newsworthy event is occurring the user may be unaware of the newsworthy event e.g. because the user is down the street or around the block. As another example although a user may be watching a newsworthy event and even capturing media a remote viewer may desire to see a different angle or a different subject.

In some embodiments the disclosed technology receives at a second computing device a message from a first computing device the message comprising at least an indication of a physical motion or a requested motion or an indication of a camera control operation. The indicated motion can correspond to a physical motion made to the first computing device and the indicated camera control operation can correspond to a camera control operation made at the first computing device. The technology then requests a user of the second computing device to physically move the second computing device if the received message indicates a motion and controls a digital camera associated with the second computing device if the received message indicates a camera control operation made at the first computing device.

The foregoing summary is illustrative only and is not intended to be in any way limiting. In addition to the illustrative aspects embodiments and features described above further aspects embodiments and features will become apparent by reference to the drawings and the following detailed description.

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof. In the drawings similar symbols typically identify similar components unless context dictates otherwise. The illustrative embodiments described in the detailed description drawings and claims are not meant to be limiting. Other embodiments may be utilized and other changes may be made without departing from the scope of the subject matter presented herein. It will be readily understood that the aspects of the present disclosure as generally described herein and illustrated in the Figures can be arranged substituted combined separated and designed in a wide variety of different configurations all of which are explicitly contemplated herein.

Technology is described for remotely controlling crowd sourced media capture the technology . In various embodiments a client e.g. a user of a local computing device interacts with one or more suppliers e.g. users of remote computing devices via the local computing device to manipulate the remote computing devices to capture media the client is interested in. The client can identify one or more suppliers who are nearby a particular geographical location and whose mobile computing devices are capable of providing the type and or quality of media the client desires and then control the suppliers mobile computing devices by manipulating the client s computing device. As one example the client can pan the client s mobile computing device e.g. move it left or right rotate it tilt it etc. which actions are transmitted to a supplier s mobile computing device. Alternatively the client can use user interface elements e.g. arrows buttons voice control touch screens joysticks trackballs etc. to indicate motion. The client s computing device may be capable of detecting the physical motion and or the motion indicated by using user interface elements. The supplier s computing device then provides an indication of the direction of motion e.g. visually audibly and or tactilely. The supplier can then move the supplier s mobile computing device accordingly. When the movement is to be stopped the supplier s computing device can then provide an indication to stop the motion e.g. again using visual audible and or tactile cues. As another example the client can zoom a camera in or out turn a microphone on or off etc. and the client s computing device can transmit indications of these actions to the supplier s computing device. The supplier s computing device may be capable of taking parallel actions without requiring further input from the supplier.

Thus a news organization can take advantage of remote eyes and ears of many people concurrently without deploying expensive and time consuming crews to assemble broadcast feeds in a way that crowd sourced news may be lacking because of lack of centralized coordination. One skilled in the art will recognize that the technology can be adapted for other uses e.g. emergency or other government and commercial services. For example legislation may oblige mobile phone service providers to contact users e.g. in the event of an emergency.

In various embodiments the technology enables clients computing devices and suppliers computing devices to negotiate capabilities tariffs or charges etc. Clients and suppliers can register their computing devices with one or more server computing devices. The server computing devices can track positions of suppliers capabilities of suppliers etc. When a client desires media e.g. a data feed or media streaming from a particular location the client s computing device can transmit a request indicating the location to a server computing device. The server computing device can identify supplier computing devices that are presently nearby the indicated location and can facilitate connection e.g. by indicating technical capabilities and or coordinating tariffs. Examples of technical capabilities include e.g. media encoders or decoders codecs bandwidth video capture resolution etc. After the server facilitates connections between client computing devices and supplier computing devices supplier computing devices can provide data feeds to the client computing devices and the client can transmit requests to suppliers e.g. to move the supplier computing devices.

In various embodiments the technology provides a method performed by a computing device comprising detecting by a client component operating at a first computing device at least one of a physical motion made to the first computing device or a camera control operation relating to a first digital camera associated with the first computing device creating a message to send to a second computing device in response to a determination that a physical motion is detected at the first computing device modifying the created message by adding an indication of the detected motion in response to a determination that a camera control operation is detected at the first computing device modifying the created message by adding an indication of the detected camera control operation and transmitting the modified message to the second computing device to cause the second computing device either to perform the camera control operation relating to a second digital camera associated with the second computing device or to provide an indication to move the second computing device in a manner consistent with the physical motion detected at the first computing device. The indication to move the second computing device can be provided to a user of the second computing device. Detecting the camera control operation can include detecting a zoom operation. Transmitting the modified message may cause the second digital camera to perform an equivalent zooming operation. Detecting the camera control operation can include detecting that a video capture mode is enabled. The method may further comprise detecting at the first computing device an operation of a first microphone associated with the first computing device modifying the created message by adding an indication of the operation of the first microphone and causing the second computing device to operate a second microphone associated with the second computing device in a manner consistent with the operation of the first microphone. The operation of the first microphone can be to turn the microphone on or to turn the microphone off. The method may comprise detecting the physical motion using a sensor associated with the first computing device. The method may invoke a function of an application programming interface that provides motion information detected using an accelerometer. The method may transmit the modified message which causes the second computing device to generate an alert using visual audible and or sensory cues to move the second computing device. The method may further comprise receiving from the second computing device an indication of an appropriate audio codec or a video codec and selecting at the first computing device one or more codecs corresponding to the indicated audio codec or video codec. The method may detect the physical motion made to the first computing device includes detecting a rotation or a tilt. The method may receive an audio stream and or a video stream from the second computing device. The method may relay the received audio stream and or video stream to a third computing device.

In various embodiments the technology provides a method performed by a computing device comprising receiving at a second computing a message from a first computing device the message comprising at least an indication of a physical motion or an indication of a camera control operation the indicated motion corresponding to a physical motion made to the first computing device the indicated camera control operation corresponding to a camera control operation made at the first computing device requesting to physically move the second computing device in response to a determination that the received message indicates a physical motion made to the first computing device and controlling a digital camera associated with the second computing device in response to a determination that the received message indicates a camera control operation made at the first computing device. The request may be made visually audibly or tactilely. The request may be made to a user of the second computing device. The method may transmit from the second computing device a message to the first computing device indicating an audio codec and or a video codec operating at the second computing device. The method may receive an indication of an audio codec and or video codec operating at the first computing device that is different from the audio codec and or a video codec operating at the second computing device. The method may select at the second computing device the different audio codec and or a video codec operating at the first computing device. The method may invoke a function of an application programming interface that enables a digital camera associated with the second computing device to be controlled. The method may invoke a function of an application programming interface that enables a microphone associated with the second computing device to be controlled. The method may transmit location information indicating a geographic location of the second computing device. The method may transmit to the first computing device an audio stream using a microphone associated with the second computing device and or a video stream captured using a digital camera associated with the second computing device.

In various embodiments the technology provides a system comprising a first computing device having one or more processors and memories a sensor configured to detect movement of the first computing device a component configured to employ the sensor to detect at least one of a physical motion made to the first computing device or a camera control operation relating to a first digital camera associated with the first computing device and a component configured to create a message to send to a second computing device modify the created message by adding an indication of the detected motion in response to a determination that a physical motion is detected at the first computing device modify the created message by adding an indication of the detected camera control operation in response to a determination that a camera control operation is detected at the first computing device and transmit the modified message to the second computing device to cause the second computing device either to perform the camera control operation relating to a second digital camera associated with the second computing device or to indicate to move the second computing device in a manner consistent with the physical motion detected at the first computing device. The indication to move the second computing device can be made visually audibly or tactilely. The indication can be made to a user of the second computing device. The sensor may be an accelerometer. The sensor may detect a panning motion. The sensor may detect a tilting motion.

In various embodiments the technology provides a system comprising a second computing device having one or more processors and memories a component configured to receive a message from a first computing device the message indicating a motion detected at the first computing device and or a camera control operation detected at the first computing device and a component configured to take an action at the second computing device based on the received message. The system may comprise a component configured to provide a visual cue to a user of the second computing device to move the second computing device according to the motion indicated at the first computing device or to stop moving the second computing device. The system may comprise a component configured to provide an audible cue to a user of the second computing device to move the second computing device according to the motion indicated at the first computing device or to stop moving the second computing device. The system may comprise a component configured to provide a sensory cue to a user of the second computing device to move the second computing device according to the motion indicated at the first computing device or to stop moving the second computing device. The sensory cue may be a vibration. An electromechanical device may cause the vibration. Multiple electromechanical devices may cause the vibration. At least two electromechanical devices may vibrate the second computing device at two opposing edges or corners of the second computing device. When multiple electromechanical devices vibrate the second computing device may vibrate with a greater magnitude than if a single electromechanical vibration device is employed. The system may comprise a component configured to negotiate with the first computing device a selection of a video codec and or an audio codec.

In various embodiments the technology provides a method performed by a computing system comprising receiving location information from a second computing device storing the location information received from the second computing device receiving location information from a third computing device storing the location information received from the third computing device receiving a request from a first computing device for an audio feed and or a video feed from a specified location determining that the second computing device is proximate to the specified location and indicating the second computing device to the first computing device so that the second computing device can transmit audio and or video to the first computing device. The method may comprise determining that the third computing device is also proximate to the specified location and selecting the second computing device. The method may comprise offering a tender e.g. a bid or offer from the first computing device to the second and the third computing devices and receiving an acceptance from the second computing device. The method may comprise determining capabilities of the first the second and the third computing devices and selecting the second computing device because it matches the capabilities of the first computing device more closely.

Turning now to the figures is a block diagram illustrating an environment in which the disclosed technology may operate in various embodiments. The environment includes a client computing device and supplier computing devices and . A first supplier computing device is capable of capturing a first scene because it is proximate to the first scene . A second supplier computing device is capable of capturing a second scene because it is proximate to the second scene . A third supplier computing device is capable of capturing a third scene because it is proximate to the third scene . Each scene can include one or more objects. As one example the first scene includes two objects.

A corresponding routine invoked by a server computing device begins at block . The routine continues at block where it provides a list of capabilities. As one example a supplier computing device can provide a list of capabilities when it registers with a server computing device. Alternatively the supplier computing device may be queried for its capabilities e.g. when a client desires to identify supplier computing devices that provide desirable capabilities. The routine continues at block where it receives a list of desired capabilities. As one example the supplier computing device may be compatible with various capabilities but may provide capabilities suitable for consumption or desirable by the client computing device with which the supplier computing device is connecting to provide a data feed. The routine continues at block where it provides a data feed conforming with one or more of the listed desirable capabilities. As one example the routine may provide a data feed comprising a streaming video at a specified minimum or maximum resolution. The routine then continues at block where it receives a directional request from the client computing device. As one example the routine may receive an indication that the client computing device is panning or moving to the right. The routine then continues at block where it requests the supplier e.g. the user of the supplier computing device to make the indicated movement. As examples the routine may provide visual audible and or tactile cues to begin continue or stop movement. The routine then continues at decision block where it receives an indication to terminate providing the data feed. In various embodiments the indication may be received from either the client or the supplier. If the routine receives an indication to terminate providing the data feed the routine returns at block . Otherwise the routine continues at block .

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the logic illustrated in and described above and in each of the flow diagrams discussed below may be altered in various ways. For example the order of the logic may be rearranged operations may be performed in parallel illustrated logic may be omitted other logic may be included etc.

In various embodiments a first supplier computing device may act as a relay for a second supplier computing device. As one example a second computing device may not be capable of receiving a cellular phone signal but may be able to communicate e.g. using 802.11 or wifi . In such a case the first supplier computing device may exchange data with the second supplier computing device using an available communications means e.g. wifi and exchange data with a client communications device using e.g. cellular networks.

A server computing device includes a processor storage communications component client information supplier information and a client supplier matcher component . Client information can include information about clients or client computing devices e.g. capabilities acceptable tariffs etc. Supplier information can include information about suppliers or supplier computing devices e.g. present location capabilities acceptable tariffs etc.

A supplier computing device includes a processor storage communications component location updater component capabilities provider component data feed provider component direction indicator component and media encoder component . The location updater component can provide updated location information to the server computing device so that when a client computing device requests a supplier computing device at a particular location the server can identify nearby supplier computing devices. The capabilities provider component can indicate capabilities of the supplier computing device e.g. to client computing device or server computing device . The data feed provider can provide data to client computing device e.g. streaming audio video. The direction indicator component can receive indications of directions e.g. from client computing device and provide indications to a user of the supplier computing device e.g. supplier visually audibly and or tactilely. The media encoder component can encode media e.g. received from cameras microphones etc. for transmission to client computing devices via data feed provider .

Storage and can include primary and or secondary storage. Communications components and can enable communications with data and or voice networks.

Depending on the desired configuration processor may be of any type including but not limited to a microprocessor P a microcontroller C a digital signal processor DSP or any combination thereof. Processor may include one more levels of caching such as a level one cache and a level two cache a processor core and registers . One example processor core may include an arithmetic logic unit ALU a floating point unit FPU a digital signal processing core DSP Core or any combination thereof. One example memory controller may also be used with processor or in some implementations memory controller may be an internal part of processor .

Depending on the desired configuration system memory may be of any type including but not limited to volatile memory such as RAM non volatile memory such as ROM flash memory etc. or any combination thereof. System memory may include an operating system one or more applications and program data . Application may include a media controller that is arranged to encode and or decode media. Program data may include a list of capabilities as is described herein. In some embodiments application may be arranged to operate with program data on operating system e.g. to select and employ action modules. This described basic configuration is illustrated in by those components within the inner dashed line.

Computing device may have additional features or functionality and additional interfaces to facilitate communications between basic configuration and any required devices and interfaces. For example a bus interface controller may be used to facilitate communications between basic configuration and one or more data storage devices via a storage interface bus . Data storage devices may be removable storage devices non removable storage devices or a combination thereof. Examples of removable storage and non removable storage devices include magnetic disk devices such as flexible disk drives and hard disk drives HDD optical disk drives such as compact disk CD drives or digital versatile disk DVD drives solid state drives SSD and tape drives to name a few. Example computer storage media may include volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data.

System memory removable storage devices and non removable storage devices are examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which may be used to store the desired information and which may be accessed by computing device . Any such computer storage media may be part of computing device .

Computing device may also include an interface bus for facilitating communication from various interface devices e.g. output devices peripheral interfaces and communication devices to basic configuration via bus interface controller . Example output devices include a graphics processing unit and an audio processing unit which may be configured to communicate to various external devices such as a display or speakers via one or more A V ports . Example peripheral interfaces include a serial interface controller or a parallel interface controller which may be configured to communicate with external devices such as input devices e.g. keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device etc. or other peripheral devices e.g. printer scanner etc. via one or more I O ports . One example communication device includes a network controller which may be arranged to facilitate communications with one or more other computing devices over a network communication link via one or more communication ports .

The network communication link may be one example of a communication media. Communication media may typically be embodied by computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and may include any information delivery media. A modulated data signal may be a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media may include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic radio frequency RF microwave infrared IR and other wireless media. The term computer readable media as used herein may include both storage media and communication media. The term computer readable storage media as used herein does not include communication media.

Computing device may be implemented as a portion of a small form factor portable or mobile electronic device such as a cell phone a personal data assistant PDA a personal media player device a wireless web watch device a personal headset device an application specific device or a hybrid device that include any of the above functions. Computing device may also be implemented as a personal computer including both laptop computer and non laptop computer configurations.

In an illustrative embodiment any of the operations processes etc. described herein can be implemented as computer readable instructions stored on a computer readable medium. The computer readable instructions can be executed by a processor of a mobile unit a network element and or any other computing device.

There is little distinction left between hardware and software implementations of aspects of systems the use of hardware or software is generally but not always in that in certain contexts the choice between hardware and software can become significant a design choice representing cost vs. efficiency tradeoffs. There are various vehicles by which processes and or systems and or other technologies described herein can be effected e.g. hardware software and or firmware and that the preferred vehicle will vary with the context in which the processes and or systems and or other technologies are deployed. For example if an implementer determines that speed and accuracy are paramount the implementer may opt for a mainly hardware and or firmware vehicle if flexibility is paramount the implementer may opt for a mainly software implementation or yet again alternatively the implementer may opt for some combination of hardware software and or firmware.

The foregoing detailed description has set forth various embodiments of the devices and or processes via the use of block diagrams flowcharts and or examples. Insofar as such block diagrams flowcharts and or examples contain one or more functions and or operations it will be understood by those within the art that each function and or operation within such block diagrams flowcharts or examples can be implemented individually and or collectively by a wide range of hardware software firmware or virtually any combination thereof. In one embodiment several portions of the subject matter described herein may be implemented via Application Specific Integrated Circuits ASICs Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs digital signal processors DSPs or other integrated formats. However those skilled in the art will recognize that some aspects of the embodiments disclosed herein in whole or in part can be equivalently implemented in integrated circuits as one or more computer programs running on one or more computers e.g. as one or more programs running on one or more computer systems as one or more programs running on one or more processors e.g. as one or more programs running on one or more microprocessors as firmware or as virtually any combination thereof and that designing the circuitry and or writing the code for the software and or firmware would be well within the skill of one of skill in the art in light of this disclosure. In addition those skilled in the art will appreciate that the mechanisms of the subject matter described herein are capable of being distributed as a program product in a variety of forms and that an illustrative embodiment of the subject matter described herein applies regardless of the particular type of signal bearing medium used to actually carry out the distribution. Examples of a signal bearing medium include but are not limited to the following a recordable type medium such as a floppy disk a hard disk drive a CD a DVD a digital tape a computer memory etc. and a transmission type medium such as a digital and or an analog communication medium e.g. a fiber optic cable a waveguide a wired communications link a wireless communication link etc. .

Those skilled in the art will recognize that it is common within the art to describe devices and or processes in the fashion set forth herein and thereafter use engineering practices to integrate such described devices and or processes into data processing systems. That is at least a portion of the devices and or processes described herein can be integrated into a data processing system via a reasonable amount of experimentation. Those having skill in the art will recognize that a typical data processing system generally includes one or more of a system unit housing a video display device a memory such as volatile and non volatile memory processors such as microprocessors and digital signal processors computational entities such as operating systems drivers graphical user interfaces and applications programs one or more interaction devices such as a touch pad or screen and or control systems including feedback loops and control motors e.g. feedback for sensing position and or velocity control motors for moving and or adjusting components and or quantities . A typical data processing system may be implemented utilizing any suitable commercially available components such as those typically found in data computing communication and or network computing communication systems.

The herein described subject matter sometimes illustrates different components contained within or connected with different other components. It is to be understood that such depicted architectures are merely examples and that in fact many other architectures can be implemented which achieve the same functionality. In a conceptual sense any arrangement of components to achieve the same functionality is effectively associated such that the desired functionality is achieved. Hence any two components herein combined to achieve a particular functionality can be seen as associated with each other such that the desired functionality is achieved irrespective of architectures or intermedial components. Likewise any two components so associated can also be viewed as being operably connected or operably coupled to each other to achieve the desired functionality and any two components capable of being so associated can also be viewed as being operably couplable to each other to achieve the desired functionality. Specific examples of operably couplable include but are not limited to physically mateable and or physically interacting components and or wirelessly interactable and or wirelessly interacting components and or logically interacting and or logically interactable components.

With respect to the use of substantially any plural and or singular terms herein those having skill in the art can translate from the plural to the singular and or from the singular to the plural as is appropriate to the context and or application. The various singular plural permutations may be expressly set forth herein for sake of clarity.

It will be understood by those within the art that in general terms used herein and especially in the appended claims e.g. bodies of the appended claims are generally intended as open terms e.g. the term including should be interpreted as including but not limited to the term having should be interpreted as having at least the term includes should be interpreted as includes but is not limited to etc. . It will be further understood by those within the art that if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is intended such an intent will be explicitly recited in the claim and in the absence of such recitation no such intent is present. For example as an aid to understanding the following appended claims may contain usage of the introductory phrases at least one and one or more to introduce claim recitations. However the use of such phrases should not be construed to imply that the introduction of a claim recitation by the indefinite articles a or an limits any particular claim containing such introduced claim recitation to embodiments containing only one such recitation even when the same claim includes the introductory phrases one or more or at least one and indefinite articles such as a or an e.g. a and or an should be interpreted to mean at least one or one or more the same holds true for the use of definite articles used to introduce claim recitations. In addition even if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is explicitly recited those skilled in the art will recognize that such recitation should be interpreted to mean at least the recited number e.g. the bare recitation of two recitations without other modifiers means at least two recitations or two or more recitations . Furthermore in those instances where a convention analogous to at least one of A B and C etc. is used in general such a construction is intended in the sense one having skill in the art would understand the convention e.g. a system having at least one of A B and C would include but not be limited to systems that have A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together and or A B and C together etc. . In those instances where a convention analogous to at least one of A B or C etc. is used in general such a construction is intended in the sense one having skill in the art would understand the convention e.g. a system having at least one of A B or C would include but not be limited to systems that have A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together and or A B and C together etc. . It will be further understood by those within the art that virtually any disjunctive word and or phrase presenting two or more alternative terms whether in the description claims or drawings should be understood to contemplate the possibilities of including one of the terms either of the terms or both terms. For example the phrase A or B will be understood to include the possibilities of A or B or A and B. 

In addition where features or aspects of the disclosure are described in terms of Markush groups those skilled in the art will recognize that the disclosure is also thereby described in terms of any individual member or subgroup of members of the Markush group.

As will be understood by one skilled in the art for any and all purposes such as in terms of providing a written description all ranges disclosed herein also encompass any and all possible subranges and combinations of subranges thereof. Any listed range can be easily recognized as sufficiently describing and enabling the same range being broken down into at least equal halves thirds quarters fifths tenths etc. As a non limiting example each range discussed herein can be readily broken down into a lower third middle third and upper third etc. As will also be understood by one skilled in the art all language such as up to at least and the like include the number recited and refer to ranges which can be subsequently broken down into subranges as discussed above. Finally as will be understood by one skilled in the art a range includes each individual member. Thus for example a group having 1 3 cells refers to groups having 1 2 or 3 cells. Similarly a group having 1 5 cells refers to groups having 1 2 3 4 or 5 cells and so forth.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims. Accordingly the invention is not limited except as by the appended claims.

