---

title: Template selection for mapping a third-party web page to an object in a social networking system
abstract: A social networking system includes a mechanism for customizing display of content from an external web page. Nodes associated with a web page are included in the social graph based on one or more tags included in a web page, which contain meta-information for defining the node in the social networking system, such as the type of the node. The social networking system retrieves the tags from the markup language document and stores their information in connection with the node for the web page while using the tags to identify a template that describes display of content from the web page. The template may include user interface elements for receiving input, allowing a user to interact with a node in the social graph associated with the web page, allowing user interactions with the web page content to be tracked by and reflected back within the social networking system.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09542369&OS=09542369&RS=09542369
owner: Facebook, Inc.
number: 09542369
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130726
---
This application is a continuation of co pending U.S. application Ser. No. 12 986 858 filed Jan. 7 2011 which is incorporated by reference in its entirety.

This invention relates generally to social networking and in particular to a social networking environment in which web pages outside of a social networking system are presented within the social networking system where users can interact with the web pages as objects within the social networking system.

Social networking systems have become prevalent in recent years because they provide a useful environment in which users can connect to and communicate with other users. Although a variety of different types of social networking systems exist these systems commonly provide mechanisms allowing users to define and interact within their social networks. In this context a user may be an individual or any other entity such as a business or other non person entity. Accordingly while enabling social communications among friends a social networking system can also be a valuable tool for businesses to engage with potential consumers. Even without a commercial purpose a social networking system may allow other types of entities to spread their message. For example a non person entity may set up a page or group that other users can join or become a fan of which enables the non person entity to provide a forum to receive and transmit communications to a group of interested users.

The useful social information that is tracked and maintained by a social networking system can be thought of in terms of a social graph which includes a plurality of nodes that are interconnected by a plurality of edges. Each node in the social graph may represent something that can act on and or be acted upon by another node. Common examples of nodes include users non person entities content items groups events messages concepts and any other things that can be represented by an object in a social networking system. An edge between two nodes in the social graph represents a particular kind of connection between the two nodes which may result from an action that was performed by one of the nodes on the other node.

For example if one user establishes a connection with another user in the social networking system the two users are represented as a node and the edge between them represents the established connection. Continuing this example one of these users may send a message to the other user within the social networking system. This act of sending the message is another edge between those two nodes which can be tracked by the social networking system. The message itself may be treated as a node. In another example one user may tag another user in an image that is maintained by the social networking system. This tagging action may create edges between the users as well as an edge between each of the users and the image which is also a node. In yet another example if a user confirms attending an event the user and the event are nodes where the attendance of the event is the edge. Using a social graph therefore a social networking system may keep track of many different types of objects and the interactions and connections among those objects thereby maintaining an extremely rich store of socially relevant information.

One limitation of a social networking system s ability to track socially relevant information is the ability to represent different objects and to track any interactions among them. This problem can be appreciated in the context of the discussion of the social graph. If something is not represented by a node in the first place then other nodes cannot interact with it such that the social networking system can track an edge between those nodes. For example if it were desirable to track whether a user purchased a product outside of the social networking system the information necessary to track that product as a node would have to be provided to the social networking system. However there is no efficient mechanism to provide this information so that it can be used effectively by the social networking system. Accordingly what are needed are mechanisms to facilitate expansion of the social graph to allow a social networking system to track socially relevant information for a wide variety of things and allow interaction with content from various sources using the social graph.

Embodiments of the present invention provide a flexible mechanism to allow user interaction with content from a web page associated with a third party web site or presentation of data from a web page associated with a third party web site using format determined by the social networking system. In particular embodiments of the invention enable the social networking system to obtain data from the web page and convert it to a format for presentation within the social networking system. In one example the social networking system selects a template for the web page and the content from the web page is mapped to the selected template and then hosted by the social networking system allowing the social networking system to display content from the web page using a format specified by the template. Additionally the template may provide functionality allowing a user to interact with the content from the web page and cause a corresponding action to occur within the social networking system. Thus content external to the social networking system may be presented in a format associated with the social networking system and users may interact with the social networking system via the template based on content from the web page.

In one embodiment a web page is associated with a node in a social networking system. The web page is encoded by a markup language document which a web browser application can use to render and display the web page on a user device. The markup language document includes one or more tags which contain meta information about the node. The tags may provide textual titles labels an identifier unique to the node a micro format and or descriptions about the node as well as other information such as the type of the node. The social networking system retrieves the tags from the markup language document and stores their information in connection with the node for the web page. In this way a node in the social networking system may be created and defined based on the information contained within a web page. The tags may also be used to identify a type associated with the node or to identify one or more types of interactions with the node in the social networking system. Using the tags and additional content in the markup language document the social networking system associates a template stored by the social networking system with the web page. The social networking system then displays content from the web page using a format described by the template. In one embodiment the template includes functionality such as action buttons allowing a user to interact with the node associated with the web page. The actions action may depend on the type of node such as becoming a fan of or liking a fan page node joining a group or interest associated with the node submitting a review associated with the node connecting with the node sharing the node with another user confirming attendance to an event node checking in to a location node commenting on a media item node just to name a few examples.

Accordingly embodiments of the invention allow users of the social networking system to interact with content from web pages external to the social networking system from within the social networking system. This also enables users to view content from a web page in a format that facilitates interaction with the content using additional functionalities provided by the social networking system. Finally as a benefit to the external websites the users interactions with a web page s content from within the social networking system may be communicated back to the external website which may then use the resulting socially relevant information for various purposes e.g. posting activity feeds targeting advertising etc. .

The Figures depict various embodiments of the present invention for purposes of illustration only. One skilled in the art will readily recognize from the following discussion that alternative embodiments of the structures and methods illustrated herein may be employed without departing from the principles of the invention described herein.

A user device comprises one or more computing devices that can receive input from a user and can transmit and receive data via the network . For example the user device may be a desktop computer a laptop computer a smart phone a personal digital assistant PDAs or any other device including computing functionality and data communication capabilities. The user device is configured to communicate with the external website and the social networking system via the network which may comprise any combination of local area and or wide area networks using both wired and wireless communication systems.

In one embodiment the user device displays content from the external website or from the social networking system by processing a markup language document received from the external website or from the social networking system using a browser application . The markup language document identifies content and one or more instructions describing formatting or presentation of the content. By executing the instructions included in the markup language document the browser application displays the identified content using the format or presentation described by the markup language document . For example the markup language document includes instructions for generating and displaying a web page having multiple frames that include text and or image data retrieved from the external website and or the social networking system . In various embodiments the markup language document comprises a data file including extensible markup language XML data extensible hypertext markup language XHTML data or other markup language data.

In one embodiment the user device also includes a cookie that contains data indicating whether a user of the user device is logged into the social networking system . The cookie may indicate whether the user of the computing device is involved in an active session where the user device exchanges data with the social networking system thereby allowing modification of the data communicated from the social networking system to the user device .

The external website comprises one or more web servers that include one or more web pages which may be communicated to the user device via the network . The external website is separate from the social networking system . For example the external website is associated with a first domain while the social networking website is associated with a separate social networking domain. A web page included in the external website comprises a markup language document identifying content and including instructions specifying formatting or presentation of the identified content as described above.

The markup language document includes one or more tags including meta information associating the web page represented by the markup language document with a node in the social networking system as described in more detail below. The tags allow creation of a node in the social networking system based on the information within the markup language document comprising a web page . As the web page may be maintained by an external website that is outside of the domain of the social networking system and may be operated by an entity other than an operator of the social networking system the tags in the markup language document allow external websites to define create and maintain nodes used by the social networking system as further described below.

The social networking system comprises one or more computing devices storing a social network or a social graph which comprises a plurality of users. The social networking system provides its users with the ability to communicate and interact with other users of the social network. The social networking system is further described below in conjunction with . In use users join the social networking system and then add connections to a number of other users of the social networking system to whom they desire to be connected. As used herein the term friend refers to any other user of the social networking system to whom a user has formed a connection association or relationship via the social networking system .

Connections may be added explicitly by a user or may be automatically created by the social networking systems based on common characteristics of the users e.g. users who are alumni of the same educational institution . For example a first user specifically selects a particular other user to be a friend. Connections in the social networking system are usually in both directions but need not be so the terms user and friend depend on the frame of reference. Connections between users of the social networking system are usually bilateral or mutual but connections may also be unilateral or one way. For example if Bob and Joe are both users of the social networking system and connected to each other Bob and Joe are each other s connections. If on the other hand Bob wishes to connect to Joe to view data communicated to the social networking system by Joe but Joe does not wish to form a mutual connection a unilateral connection may be established. The connection between users may be a direct connection however some embodiments of a social networking system allow the connection to be indirect via one or more levels of connections or degrees or separation.

In addition to establishing and maintaining connections between users and allowing interactions between users the social networking system provides users with the ability to take actions on various types of items supported by the social networking system . These items may include groups or networks where networks here refer not to physical communication networks but rather social networks of people entities and concepts to which users of the social networking system may belong events or calendar entries in which a user might be interested computer based applications that a user may use via the social networking system transactions that allow users to buy or sell items via the service and interactions with advertisements that a user may perform on or off the social networking system. These are just a few examples of the items upon which a user may act on a social networking system and many others are possible. A user may interact with anything that is capable of being represented in the social networking system or in an external website separate from the social networking system coupled to the social networking system via a network .

The social networking system is also capable of linking a variety of entities. For example the social networking system enables users to interact with each other as well as external websites or other entities using APIs and or other communication channels. As explained above the social networking system generates and maintains a social graph comprising a plurality of nodes interconnected by a plurality of edges. Each node in the social graph may represent an entity that can act on another node and or that can be acted on by another node. The social graph may include various types of nodes. Examples of types of nodes include users non person entities content items web pages groups events messages concepts and any other things that can be represented by an object in the social networking system . An edge between two nodes in the social graph represents a particular kind of connection between the two nodes which may result from an action that was performed by one of the nodes on the other node. For example when a first user identifies a second user as a friend an edge in the social graph is generated connecting a node representing the first user and a second node representing the second user. As various nodes interact with each other the social networking system modifies edges connecting the various nodes to reflect the interactions.

The social networking system also includes user generated content which enhances a user s interactions with the social networking system . User generated content may include anything a user can add upload send or post to the social networking system . For example a user communicates posts to the social networking system from a user device . Posts may include data such as status updates or other textual data location information photos videos links music or other similar data and or media. Content may also be added to the social networking system by a third party through a communication channel such as a newsfeed or stream. Content items represent single pieces of content that are represented as objects in the social networking system . In this way users of the social networking system are encouraged to communicate with each other by posting text and content items of various types of media through various communication channels increasing the interaction of users with each other and increasing the frequency with which users interact with the social networking system .

As described above in conjunction with the social networking system comprises a computing system that allows users to communicate or otherwise interact with each other and access content as described herein. The social networking system stores user profiles describing the users of a social network. The user profiles include biographic demographic and other types of descriptive information such as work experience educational history hobbies or preferences location and the like. The social networking system further stores data describing one or more connections between different users in the connection store . The connection information may indicate users who have similar or common work experience group memberships hobbies or educational history. Additionally the social networking system includes user defined connections between different users allowing users to specify their relationships with other users. For example user defined connections allow users to generate relationships with other users that parallel the users real life relationships such as friends co workers partners and so forth. Users may select from predefined types of connections or define their own connection types as needed.

The web server links the social networking system to one or more user device and or one or more external websites via the network . The web server serves web pages as well as other web related content such as Java Flash XML and so forth. The web server may include a mail server or other messaging functionality for receiving and routing messages between the social networking system and one or more user devices . The messages can be instant messages queued messages e.g. email text and SMS messages or any other suitable messaging format.

The Application Programming Interface API request server allows one or more external websites to access information from the social networking system by calling one or more APIs. The API request server may also allow external websites to send information to social networking website by calling APIs. For example an external website sends an API request to the social networking system via the network and the API request server receives the API request. The API request server processes the request by calling an API associated with the API request to generate an appropriate response which the API request server communicates to the external website via the network . For example responsive to an API request the API request server collects data associated with a user and communicates the collected data to the external website . For example if the social networking system displays content from the external website using a template the API request server may capture data identifying users interacting with the content from the external website . The API request server may communicate the captured data or a subset of the captured data to the external website to provide data about user interaction with the content.

The action logger is capable of receiving communications from the web server about user actions on and or off the social networking system . The action logger populates the action log with information about user actions allowing the social networking system to track various actions taken by its users within the social networking system and outside of the social networking system . Any action that a particular user takes with respect to another user is associated with each user s profile through information maintained in the action log or in a similar database or other data repository. Examples of actions taken by a user within the social network that are identified and stored may include for example adding a connection to another user sending a message to another user reading a message from another user viewing content associated with another user attending an event posted by another user or other actions interacting with another user. When a user takes an action within the social networking system the action is recorded in an action log . In one embodiment the social networking system maintains the action log as a database of entries. When an action is taken within the social networking system an entry for the action is added to the action log .

Additionally user actions may be associated with an entity outside of the social networking system such as an external website that is separate from the social networking system . For example the action logger receives data describing a user s interaction with an external website from the web server . Examples of actions where a user interacts with an external website or an object associated therewith include a user expressing an interest in an external website or another entity a user posting a comment to the social networking system that discusses an external website or a web page within the external website a user posting to the social networking system a Uniform Resource Locator URL or other identifier associated with an external website a user attending an event associated with an external website or any other action by a user that is related to an external website or an object associated therewith. Thus the action log may include actions describing interactions between a social networking system user and an external website that is separate from the social networking system .

The authorization server enforces one or more privacy settings of the users of the social networking system . A privacy setting of a user determines how particular information associated with a user can be shared. The privacy setting comprises the specification of particular information associated with a user and the specification of the entity or entities with whom the information can be shared. Examples of entities with which information can be shared may include other users applications external websites or any entity that can potentially access the information. The information that can be shared by a user comprises user profile information like profile photo phone numbers associated with the user user s connections actions taken by the user such as adding a connection changing user profile information and the like.

The privacy setting specification may be provided at different levels of granularity. For example a privacy setting may identify specific information to be shared with other users. As another example a privacy setting identifies a work phone number or a specific set of related information such as personal information including profile photo home phone number and status. Alternatively a privacy setting may apply to all the information associated with the user. The specification of the set of entities that can access particular information can also be specified at various levels of granularity. Various sets of entities with which information can be shared may include for example all friends of the user all friends of friends all applications all external websites or all external systems. One embodiment allows the specification of the set of entries comprise an enumeration of entities for example the user may provide a list of external websites that are allowed to access certain information. Another embodiment allows the specification to comprise a set of entities along with exceptions that are not allowed to access the information. For example a user may allow all external websites to access the user s work information but specify a list of external websites that are not allowed to access the work information. Certain embodiments call the list of exceptions that are not allowed to access certain information a block list. External systems such as external websites belonging to a block list specified by a user are blocked from accessing the information specified in the privacy setting. Note that the various combinations of granularity of specification of information and the granularity of specification of entities with which information is shared are possible i.e. all personal information may be shared with friends whereas all work information may be shared with friends of friends.

For example a user s privacy setting indicates that a first friend is allowed to access the user s work phone number and the user s mobile phone number while preventing the first friend from accessing other information about the user such as the user s profile photo or the user s list of friends. However the user s privacy setting indicates that a second friend is allowed to access the user s friend list. The information associated with a user includes actions taken by a user such as the action of adding a new friend. The user can completely block another user or an application from accessing any information associated with the user . A user or an application that is blocked by the user does not have access to any information associated with user .

The authorization server contains logic to determine if certain information associated with a user can be accessed by a user s friends external websites and or other applications and entities. For example an external website that attempts to access a user s comment about a URL associated with the external website must get authorization from the authorization server to access the user s work phone number. Based on the user s privacy settings the authorization server determines if another user an external website an application or another entity is allowed to access information associated with the user including information about actions taken by the user. For example the authorization server uses a users privacy setting to determine if the user s comment about a URL associated with the external website can be accessed by the external website . This enables a user s privacy setting to specify which other users or other entities are allowed to receive data about the user s actions or other data associated with the user.

Additionally the social networking system maintains data about objects with which a user may interact with using the social networking system . To maintain this data the user profile store and the connection store store instances of the corresponding type of objects maintained by the social networking system . Each object type has information fields that are suitable for storing information appropriate to the type of object. For example the user profile store contains data structures with fields suitable for describing a user s profile. When a new object of a particular type is created the social networking system initializes a new data structure of the corresponding type assigns a unique object identifier to it and begins to add data to the object as needed. This might occur for example when a user becomes a user of the social networking system the social networking system generates a new instance of a user profile in the user profile store assigns a unique identifier to the user profile and begins to populate the fields of the user profile with information provided by the user. In one embodiment the object type may be used to identify a template from the template store used to display content received from a web page from an external website . For example an event template may be used to display content from a web page associated with an object that is an event e.g. a concert .

The connection store includes data structures suitable for describing a user s connections to other users connections to external websites or connections to other entities. The connection stores may also associate a connection type with a user s connections which may be used in conjunction with the user s privacy setting further described above to regulate access to information about the user. Data stored in the connection store the user profile store and the action log allows the social networking system to generate a social graph that uses nodes to identify various objects and edges connecting nodes to identify relationships between different objects. An edge between two nodes in the social graph represents a particular kind of connection between the two nodes which may result from an action that was performed by one of the nodes on the other node.

For example if a first user establishes a connection with a second user in the social networking system user profiles of the first user and the second users from the user profile store may act as nodes in the social graph. The connection between the first user and the second user stored by the connection store is an edge between the nodes associated with the first user and the second user. Continuing this example the second user man then send the first user a message within the social networking system which is identified by the action logger and stored in the action log . The stored action of sending the message is another edge between the two nodes in the social graph representing the first user and the second user. Additionally the message itself may be identified from the action log and included in the social graph as another node connected to the nodes representing the first user and the second user.

In another example a first user may tag a second user in an image that is maintained by the social networking system or alternatively in an image maintained by another system outside of the social networking system . The image may itself be represented a node in the social networking system . This tagging action may create edges between the first user and the second user as well as create an edge between each of the users and the image which is also a node in the social graph. In yet another example if a user confirms attending an event the user and the event are nodes obtained from the user profile store where the attendance of the event is an edge between the nodes that may be retrieved from the action log . By generating and maintaining the social graph the social networking system includes data describing many different types of objects and the interactions and connections among those objects providing a rich source of socially relevant information.

The template store includes data structures describing formats for displaying data such as content from an external website. For example the template store includes a plurality of markup language documents including one or more instructions describing formatting or presentation of content. One or more template markup language documents may be associated with an object type so that content from a web page is displayed using a template markup language document determined from the type associated with the content from the web page . For example tags included in a markup language document describing the web page allow the social networking system to associate an object type with the web page and select a template markup language document from the object type. The selected template markup language document is communicated to a user device where a browser application displays content using the format or presentation described by the selected template markup language document. For example the template markup language document includes instructions for generating and displaying a web page having multiple frames that include text and or image data retrieved from the external website and or the social networking system . The template markup language may also include instructions for generating and displaying one or more action buttons or other user interface elements for receiving and communicating an action and or associated data from a user to the social networking system . In various embodiments the template markup language documents comprise data files including extensible markup language XML data extensible hypertext markup language XHTML data or other markup language data.

Referring again to a web page of an external website includes a includes content such as text data video data image data or any other data for presentation using a browser application operating on a user device . The web page also includes one or more instructions describing formatting or presentation of the content. When a browser application operating on a user device executes the instructions included in the web page the browser application displays the identified content using the format or presentation described by the web page .

In one embodiment the web page comprises a markup language document that includes the content and the instructions for formatting or presenting the content. In various embodiments the markup language document comprises a data file including extensible markup language XML data extensible hypertext markup language XHTML data or other markup language data. In addition to the content and instructions for formatting or presenting the content the markup language document comprising the web page also includes one or more tags that include meta information about a node in the social graph maintained by the social networking system associated with the web page . The tags may provide textual titles labels and or descriptions about the node as well as other information such as a title label unique identifier microformat and or descriptions about the node as well as other information such as the type of the node. The social networking system retrieves the tags from the markup language document and stores their information in connection with the node for the web page . The tags allow the social networking system to create and define a node in a social graph based on the information contained within the web page . Because the web page may be outside of a domain of the social networking system and may be operated by an entity other than the social networking system operator the tags enable third parties to define create and maintain nodes that are then used by the social networking system .

Examples of information about the node provided by one or more tags included in the markup language document encoding the web page may include without limitation a title label unique identifier microformat descriptions about the node the type of the node a location associated with the node start and end times associated with the node action links contact information and one or more social networking system user identifiers specifying one or more administrators of the node. A title tag identifies a text string to be shown when the social networking system . Similarly a keyword tag includes text information identifying one or more keywords identifying the web page and or a description tag comprises text information describing the web page that is displayed by the social networking system when the node is presented. An image tag may identify an image displayed by the social networking system when the node is presented. Additionally a canonical tag identifies a canonical uniform resource locator URL or other web identifier which identifies the web page .

An administrator tag includes one or more social networking system user identifiers specifying users of the social networking system with the ability to create and or maintain nodes associated with the web page . The administrator tag potentially allows users outside of the social networking system to create and maintain nodes used by the social networking system effectively opening the social graph to third party developers and encourages further development and definition of a complex and rich social graph. In one embodiment the social networking system provides a user interface to the user identifiers specified by the administrator tag which facilitates modification of the node associated with the web page . Similarly an administrator may programmatically maintain nodes and perform actions in the social networking system without an actual user s interaction.

One or more microformat tags attach semantics to other markup tags included in the markup language document which allows information identified by the markup tags to be automatically processed by the social networking system . The microformat tags allow data describing the node in the social networking system or describing the object represented by the node in the social networking system to be standardized. Additionally one or more microformat tags may increase the information the social networking system obtains from the web page to more particularly identify a node type or to associate a type with a node. For example the additional information obtained from the web page using a microformat tag may allow the social networking system to use data from the web page to learn more about the interests of social networking system users connected to the node associated with the web page . Similarly a location tag provides information about a location associated with the web page to the social networking system . For example a location tag identifies one or more addresses associated with an event such as a concert. Likewise start and end time tags provide information about times for an object such as an event associated with the node.

A node type tag identifies a type of node created by the social networking website and associated with the web page . As the social networking system enables different actions to be performed on different types of nodes the node type tag allows customization of how social networking system users interact with the node associated with the web page . In one embodiment the node type tag includes one or more values selected from a list maintained by the social networking system . For example the node type tag may include a value identifying a user a non person entities a content item a group an event a message a concept a sports team a blog an activity a web site a movie a musician a hotel a university a government organization a restaurant a company an landmark a bar a location or any other thing that can be represented by an object in the social networking system . The node type tag may be used to determine or specify allowable interactions between users and the node in the social networking system . The microformat tags may be used to determine action buttons or other user interface elements displayed in addition to the web page content in a template selected by the social networking system .

In one embodiment multiple node type tags are included in the web page or a node type tag includes multiple values so that the social networking system generates different types of nodes associated with the web page . For example a web page identifying a marathon may include node type tags identifying an event a non person entity and a location. This causes the social networking system to generate three different nodes a first node having an event type a second node having a non person entity type and a third node having a location type each associated with the web page the social networking system enables users to perform different actions on each node depending on the type of the node as further described below. Additionally the social networking system may associate different templates from the template store with the different types of nodes allowing content from the web page to be displayed by the social networking system in different formats. Alternatively the social networking system generates a single node having properties of different types of node. In the previous example rather than generate a node having an event type a node having a non person entity type and a node having a location type a single node may be generated having the properties of a node having an event type a node having a non person entity type and a node having a location type is generated.

In one embodiment the social networking system identifies a node associated with the URL or other web identifier and determines a template used to display the web page content. The template and web page content are combined to form a page within the social networking system which may be communicated from the social networking system to the browser application . The browser application renders the combined page based on instructions in the received template which allows the external web page s content to be displayed by the browser application using a format determined by the social networking system . This combined page from the social networking system may also include an interface that allows the user to perform social actions with respect to a node associated with the external web page where those actions have an effect within the social networking system . For example if the external web page is related to a concert the social networking system may combine that content with an event template which enables users of the social networking system to confirm attendance of an event node associated with that concert.

The social networking system accesses a web page hosted by an external website causing the markup language document describing the web page to be transmitted from the external website to the social networking system via the network . The social networking system may request the markup language document in response to various types of events. For example an operator of the web page or of an external website including the web page may communicate a request to the social networking system to generate a node associated with the web page . In another example a user interface in the social networking system may receive a request to generate a node associated with a web page. Alternatively the social networking system requests the markup language document encoding the web page upon a specific request by a user of the social networking system . As another example in response to receiving a request by a user of the social networking system to interact with a node associated with the URL e.g. a request to like or otherwise become affiliated with a web page the social networking system may request the markup language document encoding the web page if it determines that a node associated with the web page does not currently exist.

The social networking system extracts and records information from the tags in the markup language document . In one embodiment the social networking system copies the markup language document or a subset of the markup language document to a storage device or other memory associated with the social networking system . For example content from the web page is transmitted from the external website to the social networking system via the network . In one embodiment one or more tags including meta information associating the web page represented by the markup language document with a node in the social networking system are also transmitted to the social networking system .

If the social networking system does not already include a node associated with the web page the tags from the markup language document are used to generate a node associated with the web page . The tags may provide textual titles labels and or descriptions about the new node in the social networking system associated with the web page as well as other information such as a title label unique identifier micro format and or descriptions about the node as well as other information such as the type of the node. The information extracted from the tags is stored in the social networking system . For example the social networking system generates a node having a type identified by a node type tag and store data extracted from a title tag a keywords tag a description tag and an administrator tag included in the markup language document.

Thus the tags allow generation of a node in the social networking system based on the information within the markup language document comprising a web page as further described above or allow identification of a stored node in the social networking system associated with the web page . If the social networking system includes a node associated with the web page the social networking system identifies the node from the web page content or from data in one or more tags received from the user device . After the node is generated the web page is included in the social graph maintained by the social networking system effectively opening the social graph to third party developers and encouraging further development and definition of a complex and rich social graph.

If the markup language document does not include any tags or includes insufficient tags to provide complete information about the node the social networking system may generate a predetermined type of node and parse the markup language document to identify data for storage in the generated node. In one embodiment the social networking system may obtain information from the external web page about the node without requiring tags or other explicit indicators that mark up the meta information describing the node. For example the social networking system may import RSS feed entries from the web page identify users faces from images on the web page or perform any of a variety of actions for automatically gleaning information from the web page . This information may then be stored by the social networking system and used to create local pages about the node as described below.

Using the web page content including any relevant tags the social networking system determines a template from the template store used by the browser on the user device to display the content from the web page . In one embodiment the social networking system determines an object type from one or more tags included in the markup language document used to render the web page and determines a template associated with the object type. The social networking system then maps content from the web page to the determined template so that instructions included in the determined template describe how the user device displays the web page content. For example responsive to a node type tag indicating that the web page is associated with an event node a template associated with an event node is identified by the social networking system and the web page content is mapped to the template to generate a local web page that is hosted by the social networking system . If the web page is associated with multiple node type tags the social networking system may determine that multiple templates may be used to display the web page content. For example if a web page includes data describing an event and a group the social networking system may determine that a template associated with an event node or a template associated with a group node may be used to display the web page content and maps the web page content to both a template associated with an event node and to a template associated with a group node producing a local event web page and a local group web page.

Once the social networking system stores a node associated with a web page a user of the social networking system may interact with the node by interacting with the web page . Accordingly the user device requests the web page content causing the social networking system to transmit the template and the web page content to the user device via the network . The user device may request a page about the node from the social networking system which may host pages for various types of nodes. The social networking system transmits the local web page generated by mapping the web page content to the template to the user device via the network and the user device displays the local web page including the web page content based on instructions included in the local web page.

In one embodiment the local web page also includes instructions for capturing user interactions and communicating the captured user interactions to the node associated with the web page . For example the local web page includes instructions causing the user device to display one or more action buttons or other user interface elements allowing a user to interact with the node associated with the web page . When an action button or other user interface element displayed by the user device receives an interaction a description of the interaction is transmitted from the user device to the social networking system which records the interaction with the node in the action log . For example a local web page associated with an event may display an action button allowing a user to confirm attendance at the event. When a user accesses this action button a user identifier and a confirmation is transmitted to the social networking system to indicate that the user is attending the event. In one embodiment the social networking system may transmit data associated with the web page content back to the external website to provide information about how social network users interact with the web page content. For example the social networking system may transmit data describing how many users interacted with web page content and or a description of the types of interactions between social network users and web page content.

Accordingly the social graph maintained by the social networking system may include anything that can be represented by a web page and the social networking system may facilitate interaction with content presented by a web page. In addition to increasing the amount of data stored by the social graph this allows the social networking system to simplify interaction with content from a domain associated with the social networking system . For example the social networking system may format content from an external website to simplify user interaction with the content and allow more types of user interactions with web page content. Additionally interactions between users and nodes representing web pages may be propagated back to the social networking system which may then use socially relevant data from the interaction for various purposes e.g. posting activity feeds targeting advertising etc. .

The foregoing description of the embodiments of the invention has been presented for the purpose of illustration it is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Persons skilled in the relevant art can appreciate that many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above disclosure.

Some portions of this description describe the embodiments of the invention in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on information. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are commonly used by those skilled in the data processing arts to convey the substance of their work effectively to others skilled in the art. These operations while described functionally computationally or logically are understood to be implemented by computer programs or equivalent electrical circuits microcode or the like. Furthermore it has also proven convenient at times to refer to these arrangements of operations as modules without loss of generality. The described operations and their associated modules may be embodied in software firmware hardware or any combinations thereof.

Any of the steps operations or processes described herein may be performed or implemented with one or more hardware or software modules alone or in combination with other devices. In one embodiment a software module is implemented with a computer program product comprising a computer readable medium containing computer program code which can be executed by a computer processor for performing any or all of the steps operations or processes described.

Embodiments of the invention may also relate to an apparatus for performing the operations herein. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purposes and or it may comprise a general purpose computing device selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored in the computer. Such a computer program may be stored in a non transitory tangible computer readable storage medium or any type of media suitable for storing electronic instructions which may be coupled to a computer system bus. Furthermore any computing systems referred to in the specification may include a single processor or may be architectures employing multiple processor designs for increased computing capability.

Embodiments of the invention may also relate to a product that is produced by a computing process described herein. Such a product may comprise information resulting from a computing process where the information is stored on a non transitory tangible computer readable storage medium and may include any embodiment of a computer program product or other data combination described herein.

Finally the language used in the specification has been principally selected for readability and instructional purposes and it may not have been selected to delineate or circumscribe the inventive subject matter. It is therefore intended that the scope of the invention be limited not by this detailed description but rather by any claims that issue on an application based hereon. Accordingly the disclosure of the embodiments of the invention is intended to be illustrative but not limiting of the scope of the invention which is set forth in the following claims.

