---

title: Collaboration processing apparatus, collaboration processing system, and program
abstract: A collaboration processing apparatus that is connected to plural electronic apparatuses, receives a request from an application installed in the collaboration processing apparatus, and controls the electronic devices based on the received request to perform a collaboration process by causing the application and the electronic devices to collaborate, includes a capability information providing unit which receives an acquisition request for information related to capability of the electronic device via a previously defined interface and provides the information related to the capability of the electronic devices in response to the received acquisition request; and an execution controlling unit which receives the execution request based on the information of the capability from the application, to which the information related to the capability is provided by the capability information providing unit, via the previously defined interface, and controls the electronic devices based on the received execution request.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09661040&OS=09661040&RS=09661040
owner: Ricoh Company, Ltd.
number: 09661040
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20130315
---
The present invention generally relates to a collaboration processing apparatus a collaboration processing system a collaboration processing method and a program.

In recent years a mode of using software provided on a network such as the Internet without executing an application program in an information processing apparatus such as a host computer is becoming popular. A so called cloud computing is known as a technique of using software on the network.

In a mode a system of using a Web application represented by a cloud computing service or a mode a system using an application on a server side a further improvement of a utility value is expected by a collaboration between an electronic device connected to a system and a Web application or a server side application.

However in a system represented by the cloud computing system there is no structure enabling the electronic device to be connected to the system and the Web application or the server application to collaborate.

Accordingly embodiments of the present invention provide a novel and useful collaboration processing apparatus a collaboration processing system a collaboration processing method and a program solving one or more of the problems discussed above.

One aspect of the embodiments of the present invention may be to provide a collaboration processing apparatus that is connected to a plurality of electronic apparatuses receives a request from an application installed in the collaboration processing apparatus and controls the electronic devices based on the received request to perform a collaboration process by causing the application and the electronic devices to collaborate including a capability information providing unit which receives an acquisition request for information related to the capability of the electronic device via a previously defined interface and provides the information related to the capability of the electronic devices in response to the received acquisition request and an execution controlling unit which receives the execution request based on the information of the capability from the application to which the information related to the capability is provided by the capability information providing unit via the previously defined interface and controls the electronic devices based on the received execution request.

Additional objects and advantages of the embodiments will be set forth in part in the description which follows and in part will be clear from the description or may be learned by practice of the invention. Objects and advantages of the invention will be realized and attained by means of the elements and combinations particularly pointed out in the appended claims.

It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description are exemplary and explanatory only and are not restrictive of the invention as claimed.

A description is given below with reference to the through of embodiments of the present invention. Where the same reference symbols are attached to the same parts repeated description of the parts is omitted.

The network is for example an intranet of an enterprise a client . The information processing system illustrates an exemplary structure in which the network N is connected to the network N via a firewall FW . A cloud computing environment is an exemplary public environment.

The PC connected to the network N the image forming apparatus the meeting system the image projecting apparatus and the IC recorder are examples of an electronic device connected to the information processing apparatus . The PC is a personal computer as an example of an information processing terminal. The image forming apparatus is a multifunction peripheral MFP a printer a scanner or the like which realizes one or more functions among functions of printing reading faxing or the like.

The meeting system provides a communication function such as voice video or the like and supports a meeting held among users in separate locations. The image projecting apparatus has a function of projecting an image. For example the image projecting apparatus is a projector. The IC recorder converts voice to an electronic signal and stores as data.

The information processing apparatus performs a collaboration process by which an installed application collaborates with an electronic device such as a personal computer PC an image forming apparatus a meeting system an image projecting apparatus an IC recorder or the like. Then the service is provided. The information processing apparatus can be distributed to plural computers. Further the information processing apparatus can be arranged in a cloud computing environment.

A mobile terminal is an example of a terminal device operated by a user who uses a service provided by the information processing apparatus . The mobile terminal may be any one of modes such as a smart phone a portable phone a tablet PC a personal digital assistance PDA or the like.

The electronic apparatus such as the PC the image forming apparatus the meeting system the image projecting apparatus and the IC recorder and the mobile terminal can access the information processing apparatus . The information processing apparatus receives a request from the image forming apparatus the meeting system the image projecting apparatus and the IC recorder and a mobile terminal . The information processing apparatus performs a collaboration process of collaborating with one or more electronic devices using one or more information processing apparatuses to provide the service.

For example the information processing apparatus is realized by a hardware structure illustrated in . is an exemplary hardware structure of the information processing apparatus of the embodiment. The information processing apparatus includes an input device a display device an external I F a RAM a ROM a CPU a communication I F a HDD and so on.

The input device may include a keyboard and a mouse used to input various operation signals to the information processing apparatus . The display device includes a display or the like to display a processing result obtained by the information processing apparatus .

The communication I F is provided to connect the information processing apparatus with the network N. With this the information processing apparatus can conduct data communication with the electronic devices such as the PC the image forming apparatus the meeting system the image projecting apparatus and the IC recorder and the mobile terminal .

The HDD is a non volatile memory device storing various programs and data. The stored program and data are an operating system OS which is basic software controlling the entire information processing apparatus application software providing various functions in the OS and so on. The HDD manages the stored program and data with a predetermined file system and or a data base DB .

The external I F is an interface with the external device. The external device is a recording medium and so on. With this the image processing apparatuses can read information from the recording medium and or write information to the recording medium via the external I F . The recording medium includes a flexible disk a CD a Digital Versatile Disk DVD an SD Memory card a Universal Serial Bus USB memory or the like.

The ROM is a non volatile semiconductor memory memory device which can hold program and or data even when the ROM is powered off. The ROM stores programs and data such as Basic Input Output System BIOS OS setup network setup or the like which are executed at a time of starting up the information processing apparatus . The RAM is a volatile semiconductor memory memory device temporally storing programs and or data.

The CPU reads the program and or data from the memory device such as the ROM the HDD or the like. The read program or data undergo the process to thereby realize an entire control or functions of the information processing apparatus .

The information processing apparatus exercises various processes described below with the above hardware structure.

The information processing apparatus of the embodiment is realized by the processing block illustrated in for example . is an exemplary processing block chart of the information processing apparatus of the embodiment. The information processing apparatus executes the program to realize an application a platform a device capability storing unit and an Application Programming Interface API .

A mode of classifying software and various memory units illustrated in is an example. It is not necessary that the software and various memory units of the information processing apparatus are classified into a hierarchy illustrated in . Said differently if the electronic device can collaborate with the application software in the information processing apparatus a hierarchy relationship of the memory unit or the like is not specifically limited.

For example an application includes a scan transmitting application a projector projecting application a PULL printing application and a new application . The new application represents a possible addition of a new application to the application . The application is for example a Software as a Service SaaS or the like.

The scan transmitting application the projector projecting application the PULL printing application and the new application are examples of applications collaborating with one or more electronic devices such as the PC the image forming apparatus the meeting system the image projecting apparatus the IC recorder or the like.

The scan transmitting application provides a scan transmitting service described below. The projector projecting application provides a projector projecting service described below. The PULL printing application provides a PULL print service described below. The new application provides any service.

For example the API is an interface for the application such as the scan transmitting application the projector projecting application the PULL printing application the new application or the like to use the platform . The API is an interface previously defined so that a request from the application is received by the platform . The API is structured by a function a class or the like.

For example the API includes a capability acquiring API an execution controlling API and a processing service execution API.

The capability acquiring API is a previously defined interface for receiving an acquisition request for for example information related to the capability of the electronic device capability from the application . Here the capability acquiring API may be a single API or a group of plural APIs. In a case where the group of the plural APIs is used an API receiving an acquisition request for requesting to acquire information related to the capability of the electronic device and an API receiving an acquisition request for simultaneously acquiring information related to the capability of the plural electronic devices may be defined separately.

The execution controlling API is a previously defined interface for receiving an execution request for a predetermined process which is generated by the application based on for example information related to the capability of the electronic device. Here the execution controlling API may be a single API or a group of plural APIs. In a case where the execution controlling API is the group of plural APIs it is possible to define the execution controlling API as different APIs mutually different for each process of scanning printing and projecting.

The processing service execution API is a previously defined interface for receiving an execution request for causing a service which are provided by for example the platform such as an OCR service or a file conversion service to conduct from the application . Here the processing service execution API may be a single API or a group of plural APIs. In a case where the processing service execution API is the group of plural APIs it is possible to define the processing service execution API as different APIs mutually different for each service of for example an OCR service and a file service .

In a case where the information processing apparatus is distributed to plural computers the API can be for example a Web API which can be used via a network. The example of the API is described later.

Further the API of the information processing apparatus can be provided as a Software Development Kit SDK to a developer of the application . The developer of the application can develop the application using the SDK. Further the SDK can be provided to a third vendor other than a provider of the information processing apparatus . The third vendor can develop the application using the provided SDK. The application developed using the SDK can be installed in the information processing apparatus as the new application . As described by providing the API of the information processing apparatus as the SDK not only an application developed by a provider of the information processing apparatus but also an application developed by a third vendor can be installed in the information processing apparatus .

The platform includes a device controlling service a capability acquiring service an OCR service a file conversion service a new service a network interface an application administrating unit a service administrating unit and a memory controlling unit as an example. The new application indicates a possible addition of a new service to the platform .

The device controlling service performs a predetermined process based on an execution request received from the application in the execution controlling API while collaborating with one or more electronic devices such as the PC image forming apparatus a meeting system an image projecting apparatus an IC recorder or the like. The device controlling service determines whether a part of the predetermined process based on the execution request is executed in the platform . After it is determined that a part of the predetermined process is executed in the platform the device controlling service executes the predetermined process based on the execution request while the processing service such as the OCR service or the file conversion service collaborates with one or more electronic devices.

The capability acquiring service sends the capability of the electronic device corresponding to a capability acquiring request which is received from the application by the capability acquiring API to the application on the source of the capability acquiring request. The capability acquiring service acquires the capability of the electronic device corresponding to the capability acquiring request from the electronic device corresponding to the capability acquiring request.

The capability acquiring service acquires the capability of the electronic device corresponding to the capability acquiring request from the device capability storing unit via a memory controlling unit described below if the capability of the electronic device corresponding to the capability acquiring request is not acquired from the electronic device corresponding to the capability acquiring request.

The capability acquiring service may determine whether the capability of the electronic device corresponding to the capability acquiring request from the electronic device corresponding to the capability acquiring request or from the device capability storing unit via the memory controlling unit based on the predetermined condition. As the determination based on the predetermined condition the capability of the electronic device corresponding to the capability acquiring request may be acquired from the electronic device if an elapsed time after the capability is stored in the device capability storing unit exceeds a predetermined time predetermined days .

The capability acquiring service may be previously set whether the capability of the electronic device corresponding to the capability acquiring request is acquired from the electronic device corresponding to the capability acquiring request or from the device capability storing unit via the memory controlling unit .

The OCR service executes a OCR function. The file conversion service performs a format converting function represented by an image conversion. Further the new service executes any one of the functions. The OCR service and the file conversion service execute services processes related to a collaborate process based on the execution request received from the application in the processing service execution API.

The network interface is an interface for connecting to the network N. The network interface intermediates among the administrator terminal the electronic device such as the device controlling service the capability acquiring service the PC the image forming apparatus the meeting system the image projecting apparatus the IC recorder and the new device and the mobile terminal . The new device represents a new electronic device to be added and to be connected with the information processing apparatus .

The application administrating unit manages an addition of a new application or the like to the application and a deletion or a change of a scan transmitting application or the like. Further the service administrating unit administrates an addition of the new service or the like to the platform and a deletion a change or the like of the OCR service which is already installed or the like.

The memory controlling unit causes the capability of the one or more electronic devices to store into the device capability storing unit . Further the memory controlling unit causes the capability which is acquired by the capability acquiring service to be stored in the device capability storing unit . The memory controlling unit sends the capability acquired from the device capability storing unit based on the capability acquiring request acquired from the capability acquiring service .

The memory controlling unit causes the capability of the one or more electronic devices to store into the device capability storing unit . The device capability storing unit reads the capability of the one or more electronic device by a control of the memory controlling unit and provides it to the memory controlling unit .

The capability stored in the device capability storing unit is information related to at least one of an input an output or a process of the electronic device as described later.

Here as an example of the process of the scan transmitting application a scan transmission process is described. In the scan transmission process an original is scanned the scanned image data undergoes an OCR process and the image data and the OCR data are stored in the storage server . The storage server is an example of a memory device for recording the image data and the OCR data. The image data and the OCR data may be recorded in an HDD of the information processing apparatus instead of the storage server .

In step S the mobile terminal instructs to set conditions of an image forming apparatus a transmission destination an OCR setup or the like to the scan transmitting application . Here an exemplary condition setting is that the image forming apparatus to be scanned is a MFP A and the transmission destination is the storage server .

In step S the scan transmitting application sends the capability acquiring request for the MFP A to the capability acquiring service via the capability acquiring API. In step S the capability acquiring service sends the capability acquiring request to the MFP A in response to the capability acquiring request received via the capability acquiring API.

As in the information processing system illustrated in in a case where the network N is connected to the network N via the firewall a request cannot be sent from the information processing apparatus to the MFP A. In a case where the network N is connected to the network N the electronic device such as the image forming apparatus conducts polling to the information processing apparatus so that a request from the information processing apparatus can be received.

In a case where the network N is connected to the network N the electronic device such as the image forming apparatus connected to the network N can communicate with the information processing apparatus by using an Extensible Messaging and Presence Protocol XMPP . In the XMPP there is a technique called a Bidirectional streams Over Synchronous HTTP BOSH for sending and receiving messages of HTTP. By using BOSH the information processing apparatus can realize a Push function a function that does not cause to receive a request from an electronic device and sends a request from the information processing apparatus to the electronic device out of synchronism with the request which is not ordinarily provided.

As such a problem that the request cannot be sent from the information processing apparatus to the electronic device connected to the network N beyond the firewall can be solved by the above described conventional technique. Hereinafter a description is given on a premise that the request can be sent from the information processing apparatus to the electronic device such as the MFP A.

In step S the capability acquiring service receives the capability of the MFP A from the MFP A. In step S the capability acquiring service sends the capability of the MFP A to the scan transmitting application at the capability acquiring request source. In this case the capability acquiring service instructs the memory controlling unit to store the capability of the MFP A received in step S so that the capability of the MFP A is stored in the device capability storing unit . By causing the device capability storing unit to store the capability of the acquired MFP A even in cases where the capability fails to be sent or a request for resending the capability of the MFP A is received it is not necessary to acquire the capability from the MFP A again.

In step S the scan transmitting application determines that the MFP A has the OCR function based on the received capability of the MFP A. The scan transmitting application generates an execution request by which the MFP A scans the original the scanned image data undergo OCR and cause the image data and the OCR data to be sent to the storage server . In step S the scan transmitting application sends the execution request generated in step S to the device controlling service via an execution controlling API.

In step S the device controlling service instructs the MFP A to scan the original perform an OCR process of the scanned image data and send the image data and the OCR data to the storage server based on the execution request received via the execution controlling API. The MFP A scans the original and performs an OCR process of the scanned image data. In step S the MFP A performs a transmission process of sending the image data and the OCR data to the storage server . In steps S to S a completion report is sent from the MFP A to the mobile terminal via the device controlling service and the scan transmitting application .

According to the sequence chart illustrated in the information processing apparatus can determine the MFP A has an OCR function based on the capability acquired from the MFP A. Therefore the MFP A can cause the MFP A to scan the original to perform the OCR process of the scanned image data and to send the image data and the OCR data to the storage server .

When the scan transmission process is selected by a user in the mobile terminal the mobile terminal is connected to the scan transmitting application in step S. In step S the mobile terminal instructs the scan transmitting application to set conditions of a MFP B for scanning the storage server at the transmission destination the OCR or the like to the scan transmitting application . In steps S to S the scan transmitting application receives the capability of the MFP B. The processes of steps S to S correspond to the processes of steps S to S.

In step S the scan transmitting application determines that the MFP B does not have the OCR function based on the received capability of the MFP B. The scan transmitting application generates an execution request for causing the MFP A to scan the original the MFP A to send the scanned image to the device controlling service the OCR service to perform the OCR process of the scanned image data and the platform to send the image data and the OCR data to the storage server . In step S the scan transmitting application sends the execution request generated in step S to the device controlling service via the execution controlling API.

In step S the device controlling service instructs the MFP B to execute scanning of the original and to send the scanned image data to the device controlling service based on the execution request received from the scan transmitting application via the execution controlling API. The MFP B scans the original based on the execution instruction from the device controlling service . In step S the MFP B sends the scanned image data to the device controlling service .

In step S the device controlling service instructs the OCR service to perform the OCR process of the scanned image data. The OCR service performs the OCR process of the scanned image data based on the execution instruction from the device controlling service . In step S the OCR service sends the OCR data obtained by performing the OCR process to the device controlling service . In step S the device controlling service performs a transmission process of sending the image data and the OCR data to the storage server based on the execution request received from the scan transmitting application via the execution controlling API. In steps S to S a completion report is sent from the device controlling service to the mobile terminal via the scan transmitting application .

Referring to the sequence chart of the scan transmitting application can determine that the MFP B does not have the OCR function based on the capability acquired from the MFP B. Therefore the scan transmitting application causes the MFP A to scan the original and to perform a transmission process of sending the scanned image data to the device controlling service . Thus it is possible to cause the platform to perform a transmission process of sending the image data and the OCR data to the storage server .

Because the processes of steps S to S are similar to the processes of steps S to S explanation is omitted. In step S the capability acquiring service cannot receive the capability of the MFP A from the MFP A. Said differently the capability acquiring service fails to acquire the capability from the MFP A.

In step S since the capability acquiring service fails to acquire the capability from the MFP A the capability acquiring service sends the capability acquiring request for the MFP A to the memory controlling unit . The memory controlling unit acquires the capability of the MFP A from the device capability storing unit . In step S the capability acquiring service receives the capability of the MFP A from the memory controlling unit . In step S the capability acquiring service sends the capability of the MFP A to the scan transmitting application at the capability acquiring request source. Because the processes of steps S or later are similar to the processes of steps S or later explanation is omitted.

Referring to the sequence chart of even though the information processing apparatus fails to acquire the capability from the MFP A the information processing apparatus can determine that the MEP A has the OCR function based on the capability acquired from the device capability storing unit . Therefore the information processing apparatus can cause the MFP A to scan the original and to perform the OCR process of processing the scanned image data and to perform the transmission process of sending the image data and the OCR data to the storage server .

Because the processes of steps S to S are similar to the processes of steps S to S explanation is omitted. In step S the capability acquiring service instructs the memory controlling unit to store the capability of the MFP A received in step S. The memory controlling unit causes the device capability storing unit to store the capability of the MFP A into the device capability storing unit .

Because the processes of steps S to S are similar to the processes of steps S to S explanation is omitted. Although the processes of steps S to S are started from a mobile terminal A the processes of step S or later are started from a mobile terminal B different from the mobile terminal A.

In step S the scan transmitting application of the information processing apparatus is connected from the mobile terminal B. In step S the mobile terminal B instructs the scan transmitting application to set conditions of the MFP A for scanning the storage server at the transmission destination the OCR or the like to the scan transmitting application .

In step S the scan transmitting application sends the capability acquisition request for the MFP A to the capability acquiring service via the capability acquiring API. The capability acquiring service determines whether the capability of the MFP A is acquired from the MFP A or from the device capability storing unit via the memory controlling unit based on predetermined conditions.

For example the capability acquiring service may determine that the capability of the MFP A is acquired from the MFP A if an elapsed time after the capability of the MFP A is stored in the device capability storing unit exceeds a predetermined time. For example the capability acquiring service may determine that the capability of the MFP A is acquired from the device capability storing unit if the elapsed time after the capability of the MFP A is stored in the device capability storing unit does not exceed the predetermined time.

Here the explanation is given on the premise that the capability acquiring service acquires the capability of the MFP A from the device capability storing unit . In step S the capability acquiring service sends a capability acquiring request for the MFP A to the memory controlling unit . The memory controlling unit acquires the capability of the MFP A from the device capability storing unit .

In step S the capability acquiring service receives the capability of the MFP A from the memory controlling unit . In step S the capability acquiring service sends the capability of the MFP A to the scan transmitting application at the capability acquiring request source. Because the processes of steps S or later are similar to the processes of steps S or later explanation is omitted.

Referring to the sequence chart of the information processing apparatus can determine the acquisition source of the capability of the MFP A from the MFP A or the device capability storing unit based on predetermined conditions. For example if a relatively new capability of the MFP A is stored in the device capability storing unit the information processing apparatus can acquire the capability of the MFP A from the device capability storing unit not from the MFP A the amount of the data communication with the MFP A can be reduced.

As described according to the information processing apparatus of the embodiment the user can use the scan transmission process without considering the existence of the OCR functions of the MFPs A and B. Further according to the information processing apparatus the application installed in the information processing apparatus can use the platform provided in the information processing apparatus via the capability acquiring API and the execution controlling API. Then the service can be provided by collaboration among the application installed in the information processing apparatus the platform included in the information processing apparatus and one or more electronic devices connected to the information processing apparatus .

Here as an example of processes of the pull printing application an explanation is given to a PDF file which is acquired from the storage server and the acquired PDF file is printed by the MFP A.

In step S the PULL printing application sends the capability acquisition request for the MFP A to the capability acquiring service via the capability acquiring API. In step S the capability acquiring service sends the capability acquiring request to the MFP A in response to the capability acquiring request received via the capability acquiring API.

In step S the capability acquiring service receives the capability of the MFP A from the MFP A. In step S the capability acquiring service sends the capability of the MFP A to the PULL printing application at the capability acquiring request source.

In step S the PULL printing application sends an acquisition request for document data to be printed to the storage server based on the condition setting instructed from the MFP A. In step S the PULL printing application receives the PDF file from the storage server .

In step S the PULL printing application determines that the MFP A has a PDF conversion function from the capability of the MFP A. The PULL printing application generates an execution request causing the MFP A to print a PDF file. In step S the PULL printing application sends the execution request generated in step S to the device controlling service via the execution controlling API.

In step S the device controlling service instructs the MFP A to print the PDF file based on the execution request received via the execution controlling API. The MFP A prints the PDF file after converting it to printable data. In steps S to S the completion report is sent to the PULL printing application from the MFP A via the device controlling service .

Referring to the sequence chart of the information processing apparatus can cause the MFP A to print the PDF file because the information processing apparatus can determine that the MFP A has a PDF conversion function based on the capability of the MFP A.

When the PULL printing process is selected by a user in the MFP B the MFP B is connected to the PULL printing application in step S. In step S the MFP B instructs the PULL printing application to set conditions such as a PDF file to be printed a print setup or the like to the PULL printing application . In steps S to S the PULL printing application receives the capability of the MFP B. In steps S to S the PULL printing application receives the PDF file from the storage server based on the condition setting instructed from the MFP B.

In step S the PULL printing application determines that the MFP B does not have a PDF conversion function from the capability of the MFP B. The PULL printing application causes the file conversion service to convert the PDF file to data for example PDL data which can be printed by the MFP B and generates an execution request causing the MFP B to converted print data. In step S the PULL printing application sends the execution request generated in step S to the device controlling service via the execution controlling API.

In step S the device controlling service instructs the file conversion service to convert the PDF file to PDL data. The file conversion service executes the conversion from the PDF file to the PDL data based on the execution instruction from the device controlling service . In step S the file conversion service sends the converted PDL data to the device controlling service .

In step S the device controlling service instructs the MFP B to print the PDF file based on the execution request received from the PULL printing application via the execution controlling API. The MFP B prints the PDL data. In steps S to S the completion report is sent to the PULL printing application from the MFP B via the device controlling service .

Referring to the sequence chart of the information processing apparatus can determine that the MFP B does not have the PDF conversion function based on the capability of the MFP B. Then the information processing apparatus causes the file conversion service of the platform to convert from the PDF file to the PDL data and causes the MFP B to print the PDL data.

As described according to the information processing apparatus of the embodiment the user can use the PULL printing process without considering the existence of the PDF conversion functions of the MFPs A and B. Further according to the information processing apparatus of the embodiment the application installed on the information processing apparatus can provide a service while the application collaborates with the platform of the information processing apparatus and the one or more electronic devices connected to the information processing apparatus via the capability acquiring API and the execution controlling API.

Here as an exemplary process in the projector projecting application explanation is given to a projector projecting process. In the projector projecting process the projection file may be received from the mobile terminal and the received projection file is caused to be projected by the projector A.

In step S the mobile terminal is connected to the projector projecting application of the information processing apparatus . In step S the mobile terminal instructs projector projecting application to set conditions such as the image projecting apparatus by which the projection is conducted and the projection file. Here an exemplary condition setting is explained where the projector A is used as the image projecting apparatus and a presentation file is made by a presentation material making application. In step S the projector projecting application sends the capability acquisition request for the projector A to the capability acquiring service via the capability acquiring API.

In step S the capability acquiring service sends the capability acquiring request to the projector A in response to the capability acquiring request received via the capability acquiring API. In step S the capability acquiring service receives the capability of the projector A from the projector A. In step S the capability acquiring service sends the capability of the projector A to the projector projecting application at the capability acquiring request source.

In step S the projector projecting application determines that the projector A can project an image format presentation file for each image file type based on the received capability of the projector A. The projector projecting application generates an execution request for causing the projector A to project a presentation file. In step S the projector projecting application sends the execution request generated in step S to the device controlling service via the execution controlling API.

In step S the device controlling service instructs the projector A to project the presentation file based on the execution request received via the execution controlling API. The projector A executes a projection process for projecting the presentation file. In steps S to S a completion report is sent from the projector A to the mobile terminal via the device controlling service and the projector projecting application .

Referring to the sequence chart of the information processing apparatus can cause the projector A to execute the projection process of projecting the presentation file because it is possible to determine that the projector A can project the presentation file based on the capability of the projector A.

If the user selects the projector projecting process the image projecting apparatus by which the projection file is projected and the projection file to be projected on the mobile terminal the mobile terminal is connected with the projector projecting application in step S. In step S the mobile terminal instructs the projector projecting application to set conditions such as the projector B and a presentation file as the projection file to the projector projecting application . In steps S to S the projector projecting application receives the capability of the projector A.

In step S the projector projecting application determines that the projector B cannot project the presentation file based on the received capability of the projector B and can project a projection file of an image format JPEG hereinafter a JPEG file based on the received capability of the projector B. The projector projecting application generates an execution request for causing the file conversion service to convert the presentation file to the JPEG file and causing the projector B to project the JPEG file.

In step S the projector projecting application sends the execution request generated in step S to the device controlling service via the execution controlling API. In step S the device controlling service instructs the file conversion service to convert the presentation file to a JPEG file. The file conversion service executes the conversion from the presentation file to the JPEG file based on the execution instruction from the device controlling service . In step S the file conversion service sends the converted JPEG file to the device controlling service .

In step S the device controlling service instructs the projector B to execute the projection process of the JPEG file to the projector B based on the execution request received via the execution controlling API. The projector B executes the projection process of projecting the JPEG file. In steps S to S a completion report is sent from the projector B to the mobile terminal via the device controlling application and the projector projecting application .

Referring to the sequence chart of the information processing apparatus can determine that the projector B cannot project the presentation file based on the capability of the projector B. Therefore the information processing apparatus causes the file conversion service of the platform to execute the conversion process of converting the presentation file to the JPEG file and causes the projector B to execute the projection process of projecting the JPEG file.

Because the processes of steps S to S are similar to the processes of steps S to S explanation is omitted. In step S the projector projecting application determines that the projector B cannot project the presentation file but can project the JPEG file based on the received capability of the projector B.

In step S the projector projecting application sends a request for the conversion process of converting the presentation file to the JPEG file to the file conversion service via the processing service execution API so that the file conversion service executes the conversion process of converting from the presentation file to the JPEG file. In step S the file conversion service sends the converted JPEG file to the projector projecting application .

The projector projecting application generates an execution request for causing the projector B to project the JPEG file. In step S the projector projecting application sends the generated execution request to the device controlling service via the execution controlling API. Because the processes of steps S or later are similar to the processes of steps S or later illustrated in FIG. explanation is omitted.

Referring to the sequence chart of the information processing apparatus uses the file conversion service of the platform from the projector projecting application without intervening the device controlling service . Thus the conversion process of converting from the presentation file to the JPEG file can be executed.

As described the information processing apparatus can use the projector projecting process without considering the image format of the projection file to be projected by the projector A or B. Further according to the information processing apparatus of the embodiment the application installed on the information processing apparatus can provide a service while the application collaborates with the platform of the information processing apparatus and the one or more electronic devices connected to the information processing apparatus via the capability acquiring API and the execution controlling API.

According to the information processing apparatus of the first embodiment a collaboration process is realized where the application installed in the information processing apparatus collaborates with various electronic devices via the network. Thus the utility value as the entire information processing system can further be improved. Further according to the information processing apparatus of the first embodiment the application installed in the information processing apparatus can be efficiently developed. Thus the productivity and the utility value as the entire information processing system can be enhanced.

Further according to the information processing apparatus of the first embodiment it becomes possible to provide the capability acquired from a new electronic device connected to the information processing apparatus to the application . Thus a collaboration process where the application collaborates with the new electronic device can be realized.

The capability may be previously registered into the device capability storing unit out of synchronism with the capability acquiring request. The information processing apparatus A of the second embodiment causes the capability to be previously stored in the memory unit . Because the second embodiment is similar to the first embodiment except for a part of the second embodiment explanation is appropriately omitted. Because the system structure and the hardware structure are similar to those of the first embodiment explanation is omitted.

The information processing apparatus A of the second embodiment is realized by a processing block chart illustrated in for example . is an exemplary processing block chart of the information processing apparatus of the second embodiment. In comparison with the information processing apparatus illustrated in the information processing apparatus illustrated in additionally includes a capability registering unit .

The capability registering unit illustrated in is added to the platform . The capability registering unit causes the electronic device to acquire the capability at a time of power on or after installing a device driver or the like. Then the capability may be stored in the device capability storing unit . The capability registering unit may receive registration of the capability from a user through a capability information registration screen described later.

In step S the capability registering unit instructs the memory controlling unit to register the capability acquired from the projector A into the device capability storing unit . The memory controlling unit causes the device capability storing unit to store the capability of the projector A into the device capability storing unit . In step S the completion report is sent from the capability registering unit to the projector A.

Because the processes of steps S to S are similar to the processes of steps S to S of explanation is omitted. Hereinafter explanation is given on the premise that the capability acquiring service determines that the capability of the projector A is acquired from the device capability storing unit via the memory controlling unit .

In step S the capability acquiring service sends a capability acquiring request for the projector A to the memory controlling unit . The memory controlling unit acquires the capability of the projector A from the device capability storing unit .

In step S the capability acquiring service receives the capability of the projector A from the memory controlling unit . In step S the capability acquiring service sends the capability of the projector A to the projector projecting application at the capability acquiring request source. Because the processes of steps S or later are similar to the processes of steps S or later illustrated in explanation is omitted.

Referring to the sequence chart of it is possible for the information processing apparatus to previously register the capability of the projector A.

The user can confirm the electronic device whose device capability storing unit stores the capability by a capability information administrating screen illustrated in for example . is an exemplary image chart of the capability information administrating screen. If the user pushes down selects a reference and edit button on the capability information administrating screen the displayed screen transits to a capability information screen as illustrated in . If the user pushes down selects a new registration button on the capability information administrating screen the displayed screen may transit to a capability information screen as illustrated in .

When the user pushes down a completion button on the capability information screen the registration and the editing of the basic information and the capability information are completed and the displayed screen is caused to transit to the capability information administrating screen illustrated in . Further the user can delete the capability of the electronic device displayed on the capability information screen by pushing down a delete apparatus button on the capability information screen .

Items of the capability information on the capability information screen illustrated in can be selected based on a template of the capability illustrated in for example . The screen images illustrated in can be generated when a UI generating unit not illustrated accesses the device capability storing unit via for example the memory controlling unit .

A collaboration processing apparatus recited in claims corresponds to an information processing apparatus . A collaboration processing system recited in claims corresponds to the information processing system . An interface recited in claims corresponds to the API . A capability information providing unit recited in claims corresponds to the capability acquiring service . An execution controlling unit recited in claims corresponds to the device controlling service . Information related to the capability of the electronic device recited in claims corresponds to the capability.

A memory controlling unit recited in claims corresponds to the memory controlling unit . A processing unit recited in claims corresponds to the processing service such as the OCR service . An application administrating unit recited in claims corresponds to the application administrating unit . An service administrating unit recited in claims corresponds to the service administrating unit . The capability information registering unit recited in the claims corresponds to the capability registering unit .

According to the embodiments there are provided the collaboration processing apparatus the collaboration processing system and the program by which the electronic device to be connected collaborates with the application installed in it.

The present invention can be implemented in any convenient form for example using dedicated hardware or a mixture of dedicated hardware and software. The present invention may be implemented as computer software implemented by one or more networked processing apparatuses. The network can comprise any conventional terrestrial or wireless communications network such as the Internet. The processing apparatuses can comprise any suitably programmed apparatuses such as a general purpose computer personal digital assistant mobile telephone such as a WAP or 3G compliant phone and so on. Since the present invention can be implemented as software each and every aspect of the present invention thus encompasses computer software implementable on a programmable device.

The computer software can be provided to the programmable device using any storage medium for storing processor readable code such as a floppy disk hard disk CD ROM magnetic tape device or solid state memory device.

The hardware platform includes any desired hardware resources including for example a central processing unit CPU a random access memory RAM and a hard disk drive HDD . The CPU may include processors of any desired kinds and numbers. The RAM may include any desired volatile or nonvolatile memories. The HDD may include any desired nonvolatile memories capable of recording a large amount of data. The hardware resources may further include an input device an output device and a network device in accordance with the type of the apparatus. The HDD may be provided external to the apparatus as long as the HDD is accessible from the apparatus. In this case the CPU for example the cache memory of the CPU and the RAM may operate as a physical memory or a primary memory of the apparatus while the HDD may operate as a secondary memory of the apparatus.

All examples and conditional language recited herein are intended for pedagogical purposes to aid the reader in understanding the principles of the invention and the concepts contributed by the inventor to furthering the art and are to be construed as being without limitation to such specifically recited examples and conditions nor does the organization of such examples in the specification relate to a showing of the superiority or inferiority of the invention. Although the collaboration processing apparatus has been described in detail it should be understood that various changes substitutions and alterations could be made thereto without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

This patent application is based on Japanese Priority Patent Application No. 2012 065107 filed on Mar. 22 2012 and Japanese Priority Patent Application No. 2012 258189 filed on Nov. 27 2012 the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated herein by reference

