---

title: Jabba-type override for correcting or improving output of a model
abstract: Example methods, apparatuses, or articles of manufacture are disclosed that may be implemented, in whole or in part, using one or more computing devices to facilitate or otherwise support one or more processes or operations for a Jabba-type override for correcting or improving output of a model, such as a machine-learned model, for example.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09195940&OS=09195940&RS=09195940
owner: YAHOO! Inc.
number: 09195940
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130315
---
The present disclosure relates generally to search engine content management systems and more particularly to a Jabba type override for correcting or improving output of a model for use in or with search engine content management systems.

The Internet is widespread. The World Wide Web or simply the Web provided by the Internet is growing rapidly at least in part from the large amount of content being added seemingly on a daily basis. A wide variety of content such as one or more electronic documents for example is continually being identified located retrieved accumulated stored or communicated. Various information databases including for example knowledge bases or other collections of content Web based or otherwise have become commonplace as have related communication networks or computing resources that help users to access relevant information. Effectively or efficiently identifying or locating content of interest may facilitate or support information seeking behavior of users and may lead to an increased usability of a search engine.

With a large amount of content being available a number of tools may often be provided to allow for copious amounts of information to be searched through in an efficient or effective manner. For example service providers may allow users to search the Web or other networks databases or like data repositories using search engines. In some instances to facilitate or support one or more processes or operations of a search engine a machine learned or like model may for example be employed such as for classifying tagging etc. search queries. At times output of a machine learned or like model may depend on its training for example and may not be accurate or otherwise suitable if unseen data is introduced. Accordingly how to improve accuracy of a model such as a machine learned model for example continues to be an area of development.

In the following detailed description numerous specific details are set forth to provide a thorough understanding of claimed subject matter. However it will be understood by those skilled in the art that claimed subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances methods apparatuses or systems that would be known by one of ordinary skill have not been described in detail so as not to obscure claimed subject matter.

Some example methods apparatuses or articles of manufacture are disclosed herein that may be used in whole or in part to facilitate or support one or more processes or operations for a Jabba type override for correcting or improving output of a model such as a machine learned model for example. Briefly Jabba is a novel language for matching or generating sequences of text such as structured text for example as well as for associating actions to one or more match events. For purposes of explanation somewhat similarly to how regular expressions RE match sequences of characters or specify actions e.g. store matched segments in pattern buffers etc. Jabba language or Jabba may be used at least in part to match sequences of atoms as well as associate relatively complex actions with one or more suitable match processes. As used herein Jabba atoms or simply atoms may be used interchangeably and may refer to one or more text fragments that may be classified or tagged with one or more attributes. An atom may comprise for example a structured text fragment such as a string of text a class that may also be represented via a string e.g. place name etc. a set of key value attributes e.g. place type city is unique false etc. or any combination thereof. It should be appreciated that in some instances JavaScript Object Notation JSON type string syntax may for example be employed such as if appropriate or applicable. Thus at times an attribute may comprise for example a string key associated with a JSON value. Claimed subject matter is not limited to a particular implementation of course.

It should also be noted that even though one or more techniques are described herein in connection with a text processing or matching application techniques or any aspects thereof may be implemented in connection with any suitable application without deviating from the scope of claimed subject matter and are not limited to a particular taxonomy illustrated herein. For example it will be understood by skilled artisans that application specific terms such as span interpretation decoration etc. may be used interchangeably with analogous or equivalent Jabba terms such as atom atom sequence attribute etc. respectively. To illustrate as will be seen Jabba matching semantics may for example be characterized or specified in terms of atoms as well as spans e.g. broadly . The former may reference an abstract representation of structured or annotated text such as while describing Jabba language for example and the latter may reference an application specific implementation of an atom such as while describing an atom which maps to a classified fragment of a search query. Again these are merely examples relating to usage of terms to which claimed subject matter is not limited.

Jabba may comprise for example a number of syntax elements such as one or more match expressions sequences alternations calls or any combination thereof. Match expressions may for example specify how to match a single span. Math expressions may inspect any part of a span and may be composed of subexpressions and operators. To illustrate may comprise syntax for matching any span whose class matches what is in angle brackets for example. Bare strings like picture and pictures may for example match a value of a span itself.

Sequences or alternations may comprise for example one or more collections of match expressions or like terms to match zero or more spans. For example curly braces may specify an ordered sequence of match expressions to match against an interpretation.

Calls may for example cause one or more other rules to be executed within a rule. Collectively one or more match expressions sequences alternations and calls may be called terms. Actions may be associated with one or more terms for example to cause something to be added to interpretation decorations or to implement other variable assignments.

Thus Jabba rules may comprise for example one or more named terms. Each rule may be run against an interpretation and for each matching rule one or more actions in the rule are triggered. Jabba code may comprise for example a list of rules run in order against each interpretation. Depending on an implementation a Jabba rule may for example be built up or created from a Boolean match expression that may facilitate or support matching one or more aspects of a candidate atom. For ease of understanding a Jabba atom may be conceptually thought of as a structural equivalent of a character in RE and a Jabba rule may be thought of as a named equivalent of an RE pattern. Likewise Jabba match expressions may for example be conceptualized as characters or character classes in RE patterns for example except that Jabba match expressions may comprise arbitrary Boolean functions on different parts of a candidate atom. As a way of illustration the search query London pictures may be tokenized via one or more appropriate techniques processed via a suitable entity recognizer and broken into a sequence of two Jabba atoms as for example 

Jabba actions may for example cause callbacks to a client to be invoked. For example one or more callbacks may be specified via Jabba to map one or more Jabba actions into application specific functionality. If a match is found for example a client may receive a callback comprising a name of a Jabba rule that matched as well as all triggered actions. Although claimed subject matter is not necessarily limited in scope in this respect additional example embodiments or techniques that may be used at least in part to match sequences of atoms and associate actions with various match processes via Jabba language along with related technology may be discussed in concurrently filed U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 842 826 titled JABBA LANGUAGE filed on Mar. 15 2013 by Coalson herein incorporated by reference in its entirety and assigned to the assignee of currently claimed subject matter.

As was indicated rich or otherwise sufficient matching or action semantics may allow Jabba to be advantageously integrated into a number of text processing or matching applications. For example as will be seen Jabba may be used at least in part to specify one or more overrides to correct or improve output of a model classifying or tagging search queries in connection with an on line search just to illustrate one possible implementation. As used herein on line may refer to a type of a communication that may be implemented electronically via one or more communications networks such as for example the Internet an intranet a communication device network or the like. Communications networks may comprise for example a wireless network wired network or any combination thereof. In some instances one or more overrides specified via Jabba or Jabba type overrides may be capable of correcting output caused by an error of a machine learned model without having to retrain or otherwise alter such a model for example.

Briefly a search engine may typically comprise a computing platform that may for example help a user to locate retrieve match etc. content of interest. In some instances content may include for example on line content such as one or more web documents of a particular interest. As used herein web document or electronic document may be used interchangeably and may refer to one or more digital signals such as communicated or stored signals for example representing a source code text image audio video file or the like. As a way of illustration web documents may include a web page a news feed a rating or review post a status update a portal a blog an e mail a text message an Extensible Markup Language XML document a web page pointed to by a Uniform Resource Locator URL a collection of user generated content etc. just to name a few examples. At times web documents may include one or more embedded references or hyperlinks to images audio or video files or other web documents. One common type of reference may comprise for example a URL.

In some instances text patterns associated with web documents may for example be matched to a search query or like text input via one or more processing operations in connection with a suitable search engine such as an on line search engine pattern matching search engine etc. or any combination thereof. For example a search engine may interpret one or more provided syntax rules and may perform one or more matching operations with respect to a target character string buffer file web document etc. Search results of one or more matching operations may comprise for example one or more web documents presented to a user e.g. via a graphical user interface in an ascending or descending order of relevance. In some instances search results may comprise for example one or more match or no match values representative of respective found or not found Boolean results. Of course these are merely details relating to search engines and claimed subject matter is not so limited.

As alluded to previously in some instances a search engine may employ one or more models such as machine learned models for example to classify or tag search queries. Typically output of a machine learned model depends at least in part on how such a model was trained for example which may affect accuracy of the model with respect to previously unseen data input. Various techniques employed to make a model more accurate on unseen data may involve a number of unwanted or undesirable tradeoffs. For example in some instances feeding correct or desired data back into a training process may alter one or more other parameters of a model leading to its decreased performance. As another possible example retraining a model may not be practical or otherwise useful such as if a model is incapable of being retrained relatively quickly to show correct or suitable results in production use. Accordingly it may be desirable to develop one or more methods systems or apparatuses that may improve or affect accuracy of a model such as a machine learned model for example without altering such a model or its training process.

Thus as will be described in greater detail below one or more Jabba rules may be used at least in part to specify one or more overrides to correct or improve an output of a model such as a machine learned model for example. In an implementation in response to a search query a Jabba rule characterizing or defining a preferred output of a model may for example be accessed and an override path may be selectively generated based at least in part on such a rule. Depending on an implementation a Jabba rule may for example be specified via editorial input user feedback a feed of structured data or any combination thereof. For example a human editor such as a domain expert may encode his or her knowledge into a Jabba rule to specify one or more suitable overrides. As another example a Jabba rule for an override may for example be specified via a feedback prompting a user to select correct or otherwise suitable output from a list of choices that may be used at least in part for formatting a valid input output pair. The terms like user developer designer or programmer may be used interchangeably herein. As yet another possible example a script converting a suitable feed of structured data to one or more Jabba rules may be utilized at least in part to specify an override such as in connection with a process automating execution of tasks for example. Of course these are merely examples relating to specifying one or more Jabba rules for a Jabba type override and claimed subject matter is not so limited.

As illustrated computing environment may include one or more special purpose computing platforms such as for example a Content Integration System CIS that may be operatively coupled to a communications network that a user may employ to communicate with CIS by utilizing resources . CIS may be implemented in connection with one or more public networks e.g. the Internet etc. private networks e.g. intranets etc. public or private search engines Real Simple Syndication RSS or Atom Syndication Atom type applications etc. just to name a few examples.

Resources may comprise for example one or more special purpose computing client devices such as a desktop computer laptop computer cellular telephone smart telephone personal digital assistant or the like capable of communicating with or otherwise having access to the Internet via a wired or wireless communications network. Resources may include a browser and a user interface such as a graphical user interface GUI for example that may for example initiate transmission of a search query or like text input represented via one or more electrical digital signals. User interface may interoperate with any suitable input device e.g. keyboard mouse touch screen digitizing stylus etc. or output device e.g. display speakers etc. for interaction with resources . Even though a certain number of resources are illustrated it should be appreciated that any number of resources may be operatively coupled to CIS such as via communications network for example.

In an implementation CIS may employ a crawler to access network resources that may include suitable content of any one of a host of possible forms e.g. web pages search query logs status updates location check ins audio video image structured or unstructured text files etc. such as in the form of stored or communicated binary digital signals for example. Crawler may store all or part of a located web document e.g. a URL link etc. in a database for example. CIS may further include a search engine supported by a suitable index such as a search index for example and operatively enabled to search for content obtained via network resources . Search engine may for example communicate with user interface and may retrieve for display via resources a listing of search results via accessing for example network resources database search index etc. such as in response to a search query. Network resources may include suitable content as was indicated such as represented by stored digital signals for example accessible via the Internet one or more intranets or the like. For example network resources may comprise one or more web pages web portals status updates electronic messages databases or like collection of stored electronic information.

CIS may further include a suitable machine such as a Jabba type machine for example that may be compiled from one or more Jabba rules . As described below Jabba rules may match input of an erroneous model for example and may employ associated Jabba actions specifying correct or suitable output of this model. In at least one implementation Jabba type machine may comprise for example a nondeterministic finite automaton NDFA capable of triggering or executing one or more Jabba actions on nodes of an associated graph representing match points along a sequence of atoms. Jabba type machine may make callbacks for each match for example with all the match actions. Jabba type machine may also facilitate or support more effective or efficient finding of all matching sequences for a given set of atoms for example without generating any sequences that do not match. This may provide advantages in many text processing or matching applications such as if one or more sequences are not known a priori for example. In some instances Jabba type machine may for example implement one or more optimization operations or passes for merging equivalent states and edges of an associated graph. Although claimed subject matter is not necessarily limited in scope in this respect additional example embodiments or techniques that may be used at least in part to match one or more sequences of atoms or generate matching sequences from sets of atoms via a Jabba type machine along with related technology may be discussed in concurrently filed U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 843 292 titled MACHINE FOR RECOGNIZING OR GENERATING JABBA TYPE SEQUENCES filed on Mar. 15 2013 by Coalson herein incorporated by reference in its entirety and assigned to the assignee of currently claimed subject matter.

At times it may be potentially advantageous to utilize one or more real time or near real time indexing or searching techniques for example so as to keep a suitable index e.g. search index database etc. sufficiently updated. In this context real time may refer to an amount of timeliness of content which may have been delayed by for example an amount of time attributable to electronic communication as well as other signal processing. For example CIS may be capable of subscribing to one or more social networking platforms news feeds location check in services or other content on line or otherwise via a content feed . In some instances content feed may comprise for example a live feed though claimed subject matter is not so limited. As such CIS may for example be capable of receiving streaming periodic or asynchronous updates via a suitable application programming interface API associated with network resources . At times content feed may be used at least in part to communicate structured data such as to implement one or more Jabba rules to facilitate or support generating an override path via Jabba type machine . In some implementations network resources may include a suitable pattern matching library e.g. C etc. which may provide an application programming interface API for compiling one or more suitable Jabba rules into Jabba type machine .

As previously mentioned in some instances it may be desirable to rank retrieved web documents so as to assist in presenting relevant or useful content such as one or more electronic documents of interest for example in response to a search query or like text input. Accordingly CIS may employ one or more ranking functions that may rank search results in a particular order that may be based at least in part on keyword relevance recency usefulness popularity or the like including any combination thereof. In some instances ranking functions may for example facilitate or support obtaining or providing one or more match or no match values representative of respective found or not found Boolean results as was also indicated. As seen CIS may further include a processor that may for example be capable of executing computer readable code or instructions implement suitable operations or processes etc. associated with example environment .

As a way of illustration in operative use a user may access a search engine website such as www.yahoo.com for example and may submit or input a search query by utilizing resources . Browser may initiate communication of one or more electrical digital signals representing a search query from resources to CIS such as via communications network for example. Jabba rules may be accessed by an applicable process and a text processing pipeline may for example be augmented with a Jabba override path at a modeling stage. For example a sequence of candidate atoms extracted from a search query may be passed through Jabba machine . If a match is found one or more actions from that match result may be used at least in part to populate output of a modeling stage. If desired a model may be consulted to yield its output for example which may be merged with or otherwise augment override output. Subsequently CIS may for example look up search index and may establish a listing of web documents relevant to a search query based at least in part on an override Jabba type machine Jabba rules ranking function s database or the like. CIS may further communicate search results to resources such as for displaying via user interface for example.

Example process may for example begin at operation with electronically accessing one or more Jabba rules descriptive of one or more named terms characterizing a preferred output of a model. As was indicated one or more named terms may for example correspond to at least one of the following a match expression a sequence an alternation a call or any combination thereof. Jabba rules may for example be implemented via editorial input user feedback a feed of structured data or any combination thereof. Depending on an implementation Jabba rules may be stored as one or more electrical digital signals in a suitable database or like information repository which may be associated with network resources search index database Jabba type machine etc. of . To illustrate in at least one implementation a human editor may express one or more Jabba rules as well an offline model for example which may compute correct Jabba rules via techniques that may not be practical or otherwise suitable to use during live production traffic e.g. due to longer training time etc. . Thus in some instances at startup a suitable computing platform or device e.g. a computing platform of etc. may for example facilitate or support a compilation of these rules into a Jabba type machine using one or more appropriate techniques. Compilation techniques are generally known and need not be described here in greater detail. A search query at or upon arrival may pass through a number of processing stages for example to tokenize normalize extract one or more candidate atoms determine one or more interpretations of the search query or the like. As used herein interpretation may refer to a sequence of classified query fragments or candidate atoms that may imply or convey a specific overall meaning of a search query.

With regard to operation having processed a search query in a suitable manner e.g. tokenizing tagging into Jabba atoms etc. a process may generate one or more digital signals representative of an override path by determining a Jabba type machine associated with a model based at least in part on one or more sequences of candidate atoms and one or more named terms. For example in some instances an override path may be represented via a modeling or override stage at which an interpretation score may be computed or assigned by a machine learned model based at least in part on query classification. Again a Jabba type machine along with related technology may be discussed in concurrently filed U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 843 292 titled MACHINE FOR RECOGNIZING OR GENERATING JABBA TYPE SEQUENCES filed on Mar. 15 2013 by Coalson herein incorporated by reference in its entirety and assigned to the assignee of currently claimed subject matter. As was indicated at times an NDFA may for example be utilized in whole or in part.

More specifically before a modeling stage assigning a score to an interpretation an interpretation sequence may for example be converted into one or more Jabba atoms and passed through a Jabba machine that has been compiled from one or more Jabba rules for an override e.g. at or upon startup etc. . If a sequence recognizer of a Jabba type machine finds a match with a Jabba rule for an override for example an associated interpretation may be assigned a score from an action of such a rule. In some instances such as if no match is found for example a suitable machine learned scoring model or approach may be used at least in part to determine or provide an interpretation score. Thus before output is generated at a final processing stage an override path may for example be implemented e.g. via a graph state diagram etc. so as to force output to match any matches found via a Jabba type machine. If a search query matches a Jabba type machine then output may be taken from an override instead of one or more previous modeling stages. An override may be implemented so as to completely override one or more previous modeling stages e.g. merge for example or to augment these one or more stages such that a suitable or useful interpretation of a search query may be available for future processes of like search queries.

As previously mentioned once interpretations of a search query are available a suitable model e.g. machine learned etc. may determine or assign an overall interpretations score capturing an overall meaning of a search query to each interpretation. Here a search query like Paris Hilton may be interpreted to comprise for example a token paris classified as a place name and a token hilton classified as an organization name. A misperforming model may for example score a person name interpretation equally with a place organization interpretation. An editor may determine that this interpretation is incorrect meaning that it may be more useful to classify tokens of this search query as a for example. Thus here a Jabba type override may be generated to correct or improve output of this model. For example a Jabba rule matching an interpretation person name may be expressed and accessed such as discussed above and an override forcing a score for this interpretation to be higher e.g. 1.0 than a score provided by a model for a place name and organization name 0.1 may for example be generated.

As seen in this example a Jabba rule expressed by a domain expert may for example assign a higher score for an interpretation in which paris hilton is a person s name and may assign a lower score for paris the place hilton the organization. By way of example but not limitation scores like perfect excellent good fair and bad may be utilized. In some instances editorial judgments may for example be normalized to a score between zero 0 and one 1 . Thus in addition to forcing an interpretation a Jabba rule may also force a score for example such that at a final stage a system or process may not put its own judgment on an interpretation but rather accept or use a score from an override. Of course these Jabba rules scores interpretations etc. are merely examples to which claimed subject matter is not limited.

Depending on an interpretation score override output of a model may for example be generated at a final stage by augmenting or merging this output with one or more outputs from one or more previous modeling or processing stages. For example a correct interpretation may be augmented by an interpretation from one or more previous modeling stages such that a model may be corrected or improved while preserving forced scoring to ensure that future interpretations will not override what is determined to be correct output. In some instances output from a previous modeling stage may be merged with correct output to completely override a model as was also indicated.

Accordingly as discussed herein a Jabba type override may provide benefits. For example one or more errors of a model may be corrected or improved in a separate override stage without having to alter an original model or its training process. In addition output of one or more Jabba rules may for example be predicted more easily since one or more exact sequences may be specified. This may be advantageous with regard to a statistical or machine learned model in which accuracy is typically measured separately. Also a Jabba type override may be easier to implement in comparison to a larger model since it may not involve retraining retesting or redeploying the model for example. As such a Jabba type override may for example allow for a faster incremental improvement to a process handling a larger volume of search queries. Of course such a description of certain aspects of a Jabba type override and its benefits is merely an example and claimed subject matter is not so limited.

Second device may include at least one processing unit that may be operatively coupled to a memory through a bus . Processing unit may represent one or more circuits to perform at least a portion of one or more applicable computing operations or processes. For example depending on an implementation processing unit may facilitate or support electronically accessing one or more Jabba rules descriptive of one or more named terms characterizing a preferred output of a model. In addition in some instances processing unit may be capable of generating one or more digital signals representative of an override path by determining a Jabba type machine associated with the model based at least in part on one or more sequences of candidate atoms and these one or more named terms. This may for example facilitate or support generating an override output of this model by merging the preferred output of the model with these one or more sequences of candidate atoms based at least in part on an interpretation score determined for the override output. This may also facilitate or support generating an override output of the model by augmenting the preferred output of the model with these one or more sequences of candidate atoms based at least in part on an interpretation score determined for the override output as was also discussed.

Memory may represent any signal storage mechanism or appliance. For example memory may include a primary memory and a secondary memory . Primary memory may include for example a random access memory read only memory etc. In certain implementations secondary memory may be operatively receptive of or otherwise have capability to be coupled to a computer readable medium . In some instances memory or any portion thereof may comprise for example a non transitory memory as discussed below and may be used at least in part for storing one or more Jabba rules tagged attributes labels or the like.

Computer readable medium may include for example any medium that may store or provide access to content or like signals such as for example code or instructions for one or more devices in operating environment . It should be understood that a storage medium may typically although not necessarily be non transitory or may comprise a non transitory device. In this context a non transitory storage medium may include for example a device that is physical or tangible meaning that the device has a concrete physical form although the device may change state. For example one or more electrical binary digital signals representative of content in whole or in part in the form of zeros may change a state to represent content in whole or in part as binary digital electrical signals in the form of ones to illustrate one possible implementation. As such non transitory may refer for example to any medium or device remaining tangible despite this change in state.

Second device may include for example a communication adapter or interface that may provide for or otherwise support communicative coupling of second device to a network . Second device may include for example an input output device . Input output device may represent one or more devices or features that may be able to accept or otherwise input human or machine instructions or one or more devices or features that may be able to deliver or otherwise output human or machine instructions.

According to an implementation one or more portions of an apparatus such as second device for example may store one or more binary digital electronic signals representative of content expressed as a particular state of a device such as for example second device . For example an electrical binary digital signal representative of content may be stored in a portion of memory by affecting or changing a state of particular memory locations for example to represent content as binary digital electronic signals in the form of ones or zeros. As such in a particular implementation of an apparatus such a change of state of a portion of a memory within a device such a state of particular memory locations for example to store a binary digital electronic signal representative of content constitutes a transformation of a physical thing for example memory device to a different state or thing.

Thus as illustrated in various example implementations or techniques presented herein in accordance with certain aspects a method may be provided for use as part of a special purpose computing device or other like machine that accesses digital signals from memory or processes digital signals to establish transformed digital signals which may be stored in memory as part of one or more content files or a database specifying or otherwise associated with a suitable index.

Some portions of the detailed description herein are presented in terms of algorithms or symbolic representations of operations on binary digital signals stored within a memory of a specific apparatus or special purpose computing device or platform. In the context of this particular specification the term specific apparatus or the like includes a general purpose computer once it is programmed to perform particular functions pursuant to instructions from program software. Algorithmic descriptions or symbolic representations are examples of techniques used by those of ordinary skill in the signal processing or related arts to convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. An algorithm is here and generally is considered to be a self consistent sequence of operations or similar signal processing leading to a desired result. In this context operations or processing involve physical manipulation of physical quantities. Typically although not necessarily such quantities may take the form of electrical or magnetic signals capable of being stored transferred combined compared or otherwise manipulated. It has proven convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to such signals as bits data values elements symbols characters terms numbers numerals or the like. It should be understood however that all of these or similar terms are to be associated with appropriate physical quantities and are merely convenient labels.

Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the discussion herein it is appreciated that throughout this specification discussions utilizing terms such as processing computing calculating determining or the like refer to actions or processes of a specific apparatus such as a special purpose computer or a similar special purpose electronic computing device. In the context of this specification therefore a special purpose computer or a similar special purpose electronic computing device is capable of manipulating or transforming signals typically represented as physical electronic or magnetic quantities within memories registers or other content storage devices transmission devices or display devices of the special purpose computer or similar special purpose electronic computing device.

Terms and and or as used herein may include a variety of meanings that also is expected to depend at least in part upon the context in which such terms are used. Typically or if used to associate a list such as A B or C is intended to mean A B and C here used in the inclusive sense as well as A B or C here used in the exclusive sense. In addition the term one or more as used herein may be used to describe any feature structure or characteristic in the singular or may be used to describe some combination of features structures or characteristics. Though it should be noted that this is merely an illustrative example and claimed subject matter is not limited to this example.

While certain example techniques have been described or shown herein using various methods or systems it should be understood by those skilled in the art that various other modifications may be made or equivalents may be substituted without departing from claimed subject matter. Additionally many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation to the teachings of claimed subject matter without departing from the central concept s described herein. Therefore it is intended that claimed subject matter not be limited to particular examples disclosed but that claimed subject matter may also include all implementations falling within the scope of the appended claims or equivalents thereof.

