---

title: Systems and methods for detecting near field communication risks
abstract: A computer-implemented method for detecting near field communication risks may include (1) identifying a mobile device capable of near field communication, (2) identifying an attempted near field communication involving the mobile device, (3) tracking at least one contextual behavior relating to the attempted near field communication; and (4) determining, based at least in part on the contextual behavior, that the attempted near field communication poses a risk to the mobile device. Various other methods, systems, and computer-readable media are also disclosed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09485606&OS=09485606&RS=09485606
owner: Symantec Corporation
number: 09485606
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130124
---
Due to recent technological advances individuals and organizations may quickly and easily carry and organize information and conduct day to day business using mobile devices such as smart phones . The adoption of Near Field Communication NFC technology for mobile devices has expanded the possibilities for quick simplified and unobtrusive information sharing authentication and various other transactions. For example NFC devices may enable individuals to use mobile devices for financial transactions gaining access to secured physical areas and or digital resources sharing files and or contact information etc.

Unfortunately the ease of use and unobtrusiveness of NFC transactions may expose mobile device owners to a new class of attacks on their devices their data and or their transactions. Individuals may inadvertently or unknowingly provide access to sensitive data to unknown and or untrusted NFC devices in the course of attempting legitimate transactions and or simply by carrying their mobile devices in proximity to malicious NFC devices.

Traditional technologies for managing NFC risks may include the use of secure connections during NFC transactions and or scanning files transferred in NFC transactions. Unfortunately these traditional technologies may fail to address many potential exploits available through NFC technology.

Accordingly the instant disclosure identifies and addresses a need for additional and improved systems and methods for detecting near field communication risks.

As will be described in greater detail below the instant disclosure generally relates to systems and methods for detecting near field communication risks by tracking behaviors contextual to attempted NFC communications e.g. behaviors of the attempted NFC communications other attempted NFC communications and or mobile devices receiving the attempted NFC communications and analyzing these behaviors for evidence of risks and or attempted exploits.

In one example a computer implemented method for detecting near field communication risks may include 1 identifying a mobile device capable of near field communication 2 identifying an attempted near field communication involving the mobile device 3 tracking at least one contextual behavior relating to the attempted near field communication and 4 determining based at least in part on the contextual behavior that the attempted near field communication poses a risk to the mobile device.

In some examples the computer implemented method may include performing a security action in response to determining that the attempted near field communication poses a risk to the mobile device.

In some examples tracking the contextual behavior may include determining that the mobile device did not provide a user facing notification of the attempted near field communication.

In some examples tracking the contextual behavior may include determining that the attempted near field communication was performed by a first near field communication device in proximity to mobile device while a second near field communication device may be also in proximity to the mobile device.

In some examples tracking the contextual behavior further may include determining that the attempted near field communication may include an attempted sensitive transaction and that the second near field communication device has performed an additional attempted near field communication including an additional attempted sensitive transaction.

In some examples tracking the contextual behavior may include determining that the attempted near field communication may include an attempted complex transaction including a plurality of single subject transactions that are marked as corresponding to plurality of distinct transaction types in a behavioral database.

In some examples tracking the contextual behavior may include determining that the attempted near field communication may include an attempted file transaction including a transfer of at least one file not selected for the attempted file transaction via a user interface.

In some examples tracking the contextual behavior may include determining that the attempted near field communication occurred within a predetermined temporal proximity to a plurality of additional attempted near field communications.

In some examples tracking the contextual behavior may include determining that a configuration setting of the mobile device changed within a predetermined time period following the attempted near field communication.

In some examples tracking the contextual behavior may include determining that the mobile device transmitted a message within a predetermined time period following the attempted near field communication.

In one embodiment a system for implementing the above described method may include 1 an identification module programmed to i identify a mobile device capable of near field communication and ii identify an attempted near field communication involving the mobile device 2 a tracking module programmed to track at least one contextual behavior relating to the attempted near field communication 3 a determination module programmed to determine based at least in part on the contextual behavior that the attempted near field communication poses a risk to the mobile device and 4 at least one processor configured to execute the identification module the tracking module and the determination module.

In some examples the above described method may be encoded as computer readable instructions on a computer readable storage medium. For example a computer readable storage medium may include one or more computer executable instructions that when executed by at least one processor of a computing device may cause the computing device to 1 identify a mobile device capable of near field communication 2 identify an attempted near field communication involving the mobile device 3 track at least one contextual behavior relating to the attempted near field communication and 4 determine based at least in part on the contextual behavior that the attempted near field communication poses a risk to the mobile device.

Features from any of the above mentioned embodiments may be used in combination with one another in accordance with the general principles described herein. These and other embodiments features and advantages will be more fully understood upon reading the following detailed description in conjunction with the accompanying drawings and claims.

Throughout the drawings identical reference characters and descriptions indicate similar but not necessarily identical elements. While the exemplary embodiments described herein are susceptible to various modifications and alternative forms specific embodiments have been shown by way of example in the drawings and will be described in detail herein. However the exemplary embodiments described herein are not intended to be limited to the particular forms disclosed. Rather the instant disclosure covers all modifications equivalents and alternatives falling within the scope of the appended claims.

The present disclosure is generally directed to systems and methods for detecting near field communication risks. As will be explained in greater detail below by tracking behaviors contextual to attempted NFC communications e.g. behaviors of the attempted NFC communications other attempted NFC communications and or mobile devices receiving the attempted NFC communications and analyzing these behaviors for evidence of risks and or attempted exploits the systems and methods described herein may protect owners of mobile devices from exploits and or data loss more efficiently potentially including exploits that may otherwise overcome secured connections and or payload analysis e.g. exploits that pose as legitimate transactions .

The following will provide with reference to detailed descriptions of exemplary systems for detecting near field communication risks. Detailed descriptions of corresponding computer implemented methods will also be provided in connection with . In addition detailed descriptions of an exemplary computing system and network architecture capable of implementing one or more of the embodiments described herein will be provided in connection with respectively.

Although illustrated as separate elements one or more of modules in may represent portions of a single module or application.

In certain embodiments one or more of modules in may represent one or more software applications or programs that when executed by a computing device may cause the computing device to perform one or more tasks. For example and as will be described in greater detail below one or more of modules may represent software modules stored and configured to run on one or more computing devices such as the devices illustrated in e.g. mobile device and or near field communication device computing system in and or portions of exemplary network architecture in . One or more of modules in may also represent all or portions of one or more special purpose computers configured to perform one or more tasks.

As illustrated in exemplary system may also include one or more databases such as database . In one example database may be configured to store behavioral rules and or patterns that indicate the legitimacy and or illegitimacy of attempted near field communication transactions.

Database may represent portions of a single database or computing device or a plurality of databases or computing devices. For example database may represent a portion of mobile device in computing system in and or portions of exemplary network architecture in . Alternatively database in may represent one or more physically separate devices capable of being accessed by a computing device such as mobile device in computing system in and or portions of exemplary network architecture in .

Exemplary system in may be implemented in a variety of ways. For example all or a portion of exemplary system may represent portions of exemplary system in . As shown in system may include a mobile device in communication with a near field communication device . Mobile device may be programmed with one or more of modules and or may store all or a portion of the data in database . Additionally or alternatively near field communication device may be programmed with one or more of modules and or may store all or a portion of the data in database .

In one embodiment one or more of modules from may when executed by at least one processor of mobile device and or near field communication device facilitate mobile device and or near field communication device in detecting near field communication risks. For example and as will be described in greater detail below one or more of modules may cause mobile device to detect near field communication risks e.g. posed to mobile device by near field communication device . For example and as will be described in greater detail below identification module may be programmed to identify a mobile device capable of near field communication. Identification module may be programmed to identify an attempted near field communication involving mobile device . Tracking module may be programmed to track at least one contextual behavior relating to attempted near field communication . Determination module may be programmed to determine based at least in part on contextual behavior that attempted near field communication poses a risk to mobile device .

Mobile device generally represents any type or form of computing device capable of reading computer executable instructions. Examples of mobile device include without limitation cellular phones tablets Personal Digital Assistants PDAs multimedia players embedded systems combinations of one or more of the same exemplary computing system in or any other suitable computing device.

Near field communication device generally represents any type or form of computing device that is capable of near field communication. Examples of near field communication device include without limitation cellular phones tablets Personal Digital Assistants PDAs multimedia players embedded systems laptops desktops point of sale devices and the like. In some examples Near field communication device may represent a passive device e.g. an unpowered chip and or tag capable of being read by a powered NFC capable device such as mobile device .

As illustrated in at step one or more of the systems described herein may identify a mobile device capable of near field communication. For example at step identification module may as part of computing device in identify a mobile device capable of near field communication.

As used herein the phrase near field communication may refer to any method of and or standard for wireless communication designed for activated by and or requiring close proximity e.g. 20 cm or under 10 cm or under 4 cm or under 1 cm or under etc. . In some examples the phrase near field communication may refer to a method of wireless communication that does not first require pairing two devices for the two devices to communicate e.g. separately configuring one or both of the devices to accept communication with the other device . In some examples the phrase near field communication may refer to one or more standards for wireless communication defined by the NEAR FIELD COMMUNICATION FORUM. In various examples near field communication applications may include contactless payment data sharing authentication e.g. for access to secured physical locations and or digital resources automatically launching applications executing tasks and or modifying configurations on mobile devices and or pairing devices for other communication methods e.g. Bluetooth Wi Fi etc. .

Identification module may identify the mobile device in any suitable manner. For example identification module may identify the mobile device by executing on the mobile device. Additionally or alternatively identification module may identify the mobile device by receiving a message from the mobile device e.g. about an attempted near field communication with the mobile device .

At step one or more of the systems described herein may identify an attempted near field communication involving the mobile device. For example at step identification module may as part of computing device in identify an attempted near field communication involving mobile device .

Identification module may identify any of a variety of attempted near field communications involving the mobile device. For example identification module may identify an attempt to push data to the mobile device e.g. a uniform resource locator an instruction a configuration setting . Additionally or alternatively identification module may identify an attempt to read data from the mobile device e.g. a payment card number a file a contact list a user name authentication information etc. . In some examples identification module may intercept the attempted near field communication e.g. preventing the attempted near field communication from proceeding until the context of the attempted near field communication has been analyzed . Alternatively identification module may simply observe the attempted near field communication. In some examples identification module may receive a message identifying the attempted near field communication from another application service and or module that has intercepted and or observed the near field communication.

At step one or more of the systems described herein may track at least one contextual behavior relating to the attempted near field communication. For example at step tracking module may as part of computing device in track at least one contextual behavior relating to attempted near field communication .

As used herein the phrase contextual behavior may refer to any behavior and or pattern of behavior of the mobile device and or one or more near field communication devices attempting to communicate with the mobile device. In some examples the phrase contextual behavior may refer to a behavior observed during the attempted near field communication. Additionally or alternatively the phrase contextual behavior may refer to a behavior observed within a predefined time window surrounding the attempted near field communication. In some examples the phrase contextual behavior may refer to a behavior observed to be in response to the attempted near field communication and or in response to a chain of events precipitated by the attempted near field communication .

Tracking module may track the contextual behavior in any suitable manner. For example tracking module may operate as a part of an application and or service executing on the mobile device that is capable of monitoring one or more software and or hardware interfaces of the mobile device and or that accesses one or more application programming interfaces APIs of the mobile device to observe behaviors on the mobile device. In some examples tracking module may intercept and or record one or more behaviors observed on the mobile device during an attempted near field communication.

In some examples tracking module may track the contextual behavior by determining that the mobile device did not provide a user facing notification of the attempted near field communication. As used herein the phrase user facing notification may refer to any notification capable of alerting a user of the attempted near field communication prompting a user for permission to allow the attempted near field communication and or alerting a user of an effect and or potential effect of the attempted near field communication. For example the user facing notification may include a display element in a graphical user interface of the mobile device an alert sound produced by the mobile device a haptic signal produced by the mobile device e.g. a vibration etc. For example an application installed on the mobile device e.g. a legitimate application or a malicious application may be configured to establish a near field communication connection without notifying a user. In some examples tracking module may be configured to determine whether an application that is attempting to establish a near field communication connection displayed a visible notification and interrupted the near field communication connection until receiving user input.

In some examples tracking module may track the contextual behavior by determining that the attempted near field communication was performed by a first near field communication device in proximity to mobile device while a second near field communication device may be also in proximity to the mobile device. For example since the range of near field communication may be relatively small the probability of the mobile device being within range of more than one near field communication device may be relatively small. However attackers may purposefully place an illegitimate near field communication device near a legitimate near field communication device in hopes that a user will authorized a communication with the illegitimate near field communication device thinking that the authorization was directed to the legitimate near field communication device. Accordingly tracking module may monitor for cases of multiple near field communication devices being within range of the mobile device e.g. especially in the case of an attempted near field communication .

In some examples tracking module may also determine that the attempted near field communication includes an attempted sensitive transaction and that the second near field communication device has performed an additional attempted near field communication including an additional attempted sensitive transaction. For example by observing two near field communication devices simultaneously attempting to perform sensitive transactions with the mobile device tracking module may have observed evidence that at least one of the attempted sensitive transactions has originated from a malicious device. In some examples tracking module may also determine that the attempted sensitive transaction and the additional attempted sensitive transaction are of the same nature e.g. requesting the same type of data . For example tracking module may determine that both attempted transactions include attempts to read payment card information from the mobile device. Using as an example near field communication may represent a legitimate point of sale device conducting an attempted near field communication with mobile device to retrieve payment card information from mobile device to conduct a legitimate transaction. Hidden near field communication device may represent a device concealed near the near field communication device intended to capture payment card information from mobile devices such as mobile device . Accordingly attempted near field communication may represent an attempt to retrieve payment card information from mobile device .

In some examples tracking module may track the contextual behavior by determining that the attempted near field communication may include an attempted complex transaction including a plurality of single subject transactions that are marked as corresponding to plurality of distinct transaction types in a behavioral database. For example the majority of legitimate near field communication transactions may be special purpose transactions directed to a single subject and or type of data. For example a legitimate point of sale system may only require payment card information a legitimate access authorization device may only require a single identity document and or badge a legitimate social networking application may only transfer social data e.g. contacts photos etc. etc. Accordingly tracking module may record transactions attempting to retrieve multiple types of data e.g. payment card information key card information contact information files etc. .

In some examples tracking module may track the contextual behavior by determining that the attempted near field communication may include an attempted file transaction including a transfer of at least one file not selected for the attempted file transaction via a user interface. For example legitimate attempts to transfer one or more files and or photos contacts and the like may typically include a user selecting which files are to be sent. Accordingly tracking module may record transactions attempting to transmit files without evidence of user selection and or approval.

In some examples tracking module may track the contextual behavior by determining that the attempted near field communication occurred within a predetermined temporal proximity to a plurality of additional attempted near field communications. For example an attacker may attempt to perform a denial of service attack on the mobile device by performing many otherwise apparently legitimate near field communication attempts with the mobile device. Accordingly tracking module may observe whether the density of near field communication attempts exceeds a predetermined threshold e.g. a certain number of attempts per amount of time and or interferes with the operation of the mobile device.

In some examples tracking module may track the contextual behavior by determining that a configuration setting of the mobile device changed within a predetermined time period following the attempted near field communication. For example legitimate NFC tags may typically not cause a mobile device to change system configuration settings. Accordingly tracking module may record attempts by the mobile device to modify system configuration settings shortly after reading an NFC tag with the inference that the NFC tag may have included a malicious payload leveraging an exploit to modify the mobile devices configuration settings and thereby open a vulnerability in the mobile device.

In some examples tracking module may track the contextual behavior by determining that the mobile device transmitted a message within a predetermined time period following the attempted near field communication. For example legitimate NFC tags may typically not cause a mobile device to send messages e.g. transmitting potentially sensitive information transmitting premium messages that incur a charge to the mobile device owner transmitting information identifying the mobile device to an attacker indicating that the mobile device has been prepared with an exploit etc. . Accordingly tracking module may record attempts by the mobile device to send messages shortly after reading an NFC tag. In some examples tracking module may record attempts by the mobile device to send short messages apparently garbled messages e.g. not in a known natural language and or messages without any observed user input after reading an NFC tag.

Returning to at step one or more of the systems described herein may determine based at least in part on the contextual behavior that the attempted near field communication poses a risk to the mobile device. For example at step determination module may as part of computing device in determine based at least in part on contextual behavior that attempted near field communication poses a risk to mobile device .

Determination module may determine that contextual behavior indicates that the attempted near field communication poses a risk to the mobile device in any suitable manner. For example determination module may query a behavioral database e.g. database of with the contextual behavior to determine whether the contextual behavior appears indicates a legitimate or illegitimate near field communication. In some examples the behavioral database may receive updates as new suspicious behaviors are identified. In some examples the behavioral database may be populated with behaviors recorded during known legitimate transactions and or with behaviors recorded during known illegitimate transactions. Additionally or alternatively the behavioral database may include manually coded rules for identifying suspicious and or illegitimate transactions based on one or more contextual behaviors.

In some examples one or more of the systems described herein may also perform a security action in response to determining that the near field communication poses a risk to the mobile device. For example security module may as a part of mobile device in perform a security action in response to determining that attempted near field communication poses a security risk to mobile device .

Security module may perform any of a variety of security actions in response to determining that the attempted near field communication poses a risk. For example security module may alert a user of the attempted near field communication warn the user that the attempted near field communication appears suspicious and or present the user with an option to cancel a transaction requested and or initiated by the attempted near field communication. In some examples security module may automatically block the attempted near field communication and or a corresponding transaction. In some examples security module may report the attempted near field communication e.g. to a security vendor to an owner of the mobile device to an administrator of the mobile device etc. . For example security module may report the location of the attempted near field communication e.g. using GPS data Wi Fi derived location data etc. the contextual behavior used to convict the attempted near field communication contents of the attempted near field communication etc. In some examples security module may ignore one or more attempted near field communications. Additionally or alternatively security module may suspend and or disable the near field communication functionality of the mobile device.

As explained above in connection with method in a mobile device may receive an attempted near field communication when in proximity to a near field communication device. In order to determine whether the attempted near field communication is malicious one or more of the systems described herein may inspect one or more contextual clues e.g. including behaviors of the mobile device and or one or more near field communication attempts and establish detect behaviors and or patterns that indicate whether the attempted near field communication is suspect. In some examples these systems and methods may then perform a security action e.g. to warn of block report and or ignore the attempted near field communication and or coincidental attempted near field communications thereby potentially preventing an exploit via near field communication e.g. preventing data loss mobile device disruption etc. .

Computing system broadly represents any single or multi processor computing device or system capable of executing computer readable instructions. Examples of computing system include without limitation workstations laptops client side terminals servers distributed computing systems handheld devices or any other computing system or device. In its most basic configuration computing system may include at least one processor and a system memory .

Processor generally represents any type or form of processing unit capable of processing data or interpreting and executing instructions. In certain embodiments processor may receive instructions from a software application or module. These instructions may cause processor to perform the functions of one or more of the exemplary embodiments described and or illustrated herein.

System memory generally represents any type or form of volatile or non volatile storage device or medium capable of storing data and or other computer readable instructions. Examples of system memory include without limitation Random Access Memory RAM Read Only Memory ROM flash memory or any other suitable memory device. Although not required in certain embodiments computing system may include both a volatile memory unit such as for example system memory and a non volatile storage device such as for example primary storage device as described in detail below . In one example one or more of modules from may be loaded into system memory .

In certain embodiments exemplary computing system may also include one or more components or elements in addition to processor and system memory . For example as illustrated in computing system may include a memory controller an Input Output I O controller and a communication interface each of which may be interconnected via a communication infrastructure . Communication infrastructure generally represents any type or form of infrastructure capable of facilitating communication between one or more components of a computing device. Examples of communication infrastructure include without limitation a communication bus such as an Industry Standard Architecture ISA Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI PCI Express PCIe or similar bus and a network.

Memory controller generally represents any type or form of device capable of handling memory or data or controlling communication between one or more components of computing system . For example in certain embodiments memory controller may control communication between processor system memory and I O controller via communication infrastructure .

I O controller generally represents any type or form of module capable of coordinating and or controlling the input and output functions of a computing device. For example in certain embodiments I O controller may control or facilitate transfer of data between one or more elements of computing system such as processor system memory communication interface display adapter input interface and storage interface .

Communication interface broadly represents any type or form of communication device or adapter capable of facilitating communication between exemplary computing system and one or more additional devices. For example in certain embodiments communication interface may facilitate communication between computing system and a private or public network including additional computing systems. Examples of communication interface include without limitation a wired network interface such as a network interface card a wireless network interface such as a wireless network interface card a modem and any other suitable interface. In at least one embodiment communication interface may provide a direct connection to a remote server via a direct link to a network such as the Internet. Communication interface may also indirectly provide such a connection through for example a local area network such as an Ethernet network a personal area network a telephone or cable network a cellular telephone connection a satellite data connection or any other suitable connection.

In certain embodiments communication interface may also represent a host adapter configured to facilitate communication between computing system and one or more additional network or storage devices via an external bus or communications channel. Examples of host adapters include without limitation Small Computer System Interface SCSI host adapters Universal Serial Bus USB host adapters Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 1394 host adapters Advanced Technology Attachment ATA Parallel ATA PATA Serial ATA SATA and External SATA eSATA host adapters Fibre Channel interface adapters Ethernet adapters or the like. Communication interface may also allow computing system to engage in distributed or remote computing. For example communication interface may receive instructions from a remote device or send instructions to a remote device for execution.

As illustrated in computing system may also include at least one display device coupled to communication infrastructure via a display adapter . Display device generally represents any type or form of device capable of visually displaying information forwarded by display adapter . Similarly display adapter generally represents any type or form of device configured to forward graphics text and other data from communication infrastructure or from a frame buffer as known in the art for display on display device .

As illustrated in exemplary computing system may also include at least one input device coupled to communication infrastructure via an input interface . Input device generally represents any type or form of input device capable of providing input either computer or human generated to exemplary computing system . Examples of input device include without limitation a keyboard a pointing device a speech recognition device or any other input device.

As illustrated in exemplary computing system may also include a primary storage device and a backup storage device coupled to communication infrastructure via a storage interface . Storage devices and generally represent any type or form of storage device or medium capable of storing data and or other computer readable instructions. For example storage devices and may be a magnetic disk drive e.g. a so called hard drive a solid state drive a floppy disk drive a magnetic tape drive an optical disk drive a flash drive or the like. Storage interface generally represents any type or form of interface or device for transferring data between storage devices and and other components of computing system . In one example database from may be stored in primary storage device .

In certain embodiments storage devices and may be configured to read from and or write to a removable storage unit configured to store computer software data or other computer readable information. Examples of suitable removable storage units include without limitation a floppy disk a magnetic tape an optical disk a flash memory device or the like. Storage devices and may also include other similar structures or devices for allowing computer software data or other computer readable instructions to be loaded into computing system . For example storage devices and may be configured to read and write software data or other computer readable information. Storage devices and may also be a part of computing system or may be a separate device accessed through other interface systems.

Many other devices or subsystems may be connected to computing system . Conversely all of the components and devices illustrated in need not be present to practice the embodiments described and or illustrated herein. The devices and subsystems referenced above may also be interconnected in different ways from that shown in . Computing system may also employ any number of software firmware and or hardware configurations. For example one or more of the exemplary embodiments disclosed herein may be encoded as a computer program also referred to as computer software software applications computer readable instructions or computer control logic on a computer readable storage medium. The phrase computer readable storage medium generally refers to any form of device carrier or medium capable of storing or carrying computer readable instructions. Examples of computer readable storage media include without limitation transmission type media such as carrier waves and non transitory type media such as magnetic storage media e.g. hard disk drives and floppy disks optical storage media e.g. Compact Disks CDs or Digital Video Disks DVDs electronic storage media e.g. solid state drives and flash media and other distribution systems.

The computer readable storage medium containing the computer program may be loaded into computing system . All or a portion of the computer program stored on the computer readable storage medium may then be stored in system memory and or various portions of storage devices and . When executed by processor a computer program loaded into computing system may cause processor to perform and or be a means for performing the functions of one or more of the exemplary embodiments described and or illustrated herein. Additionally or alternatively one or more of the exemplary embodiments described and or illustrated herein may be implemented in firmware and or hardware. For example computing system may be configured as an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC adapted to implement one or more of the exemplary embodiments disclosed herein.

Client systems and generally represent any type or form of computing device or system such as exemplary computing system in . Similarly servers and generally represent computing devices or systems such as application servers or database servers configured to provide various database services and or run certain software applications. Network generally represents any telecommunication or computer network including for example an intranet a WAN a LAN a PAN or the Internet. In one example client systems and or and or servers and or may include all or a portion of system from .

As illustrated in one or more storage devices N may be directly attached to server . Similarly one or more storage devices N may be directly attached to server . Storage devices N and storage devices N generally represent any type or form of storage device or medium capable of storing data and or other computer readable instructions. In certain embodiments storage devices N and storage devices N may represent Network Attached Storage NAS devices configured to communicate with servers and using various protocols such as Network File System NFS Server Message Block SMB or Common Internet File System CIFS .

Servers and may also be connected to a Storage Area Network SAN fabric . SAN fabric generally represents any type or form of computer network or architecture capable of facilitating communication between a plurality of storage devices. SAN fabric may facilitate communication between servers and and a plurality of storage devices N and or an intelligent storage array . SAN fabric may also facilitate via network and servers and communication between client systems and and storage devices N and or intelligent storage array in such a manner that devices N and array appear as locally attached devices to client systems and . As with storage devices N and storage devices N storage devices N and intelligent storage array generally represent any type or form of storage device or medium capable of storing data and or other computer readable instructions.

In certain embodiments and with reference to exemplary computing system of a communication interface such as communication interface in may be used to provide connectivity between each client system and and network . Client systems and may be able to access information on server or using for example a web browser or other client software. Such software may allow client systems and to access data hosted by server server storage devices N storage devices N storage devices N or intelligent storage array . Although depicts the use of a network such as the Internet for exchanging data the embodiments described and or illustrated herein are not limited to the Internet or any particular network based environment.

In at least one embodiment all or a portion of one or more of the exemplary embodiments disclosed herein may be encoded as a computer program and loaded onto and executed by server server storage devices N storage devices N storage devices N intelligent storage array or any combination thereof. All or a portion of one or more of the exemplary embodiments disclosed herein may also be encoded as a computer program stored in server run by server and distributed to client systems and over network .

As detailed above computing system and or one or more components of network architecture may perform and or be a means for performing either alone or in combination with other elements one or more steps of an exemplary method for detecting near field communication risks.

While the foregoing disclosure sets forth various embodiments using specific block diagrams flowcharts and examples each block diagram component flowchart step operation and or component described and or illustrated herein may be implemented individually and or collectively using a wide range of hardware software or firmware or any combination thereof configurations. In addition any disclosure of components contained within other components should be considered exemplary in nature since many other architectures can be implemented to achieve the same functionality.

In some examples all or a portion of exemplary system in may represent portions of a cloud computing or network based environment. Cloud computing environments may provide various services and applications via the Internet. These cloud based services e.g. software as a service platform as a service infrastructure as a service etc. may be accessible through a web browser or other remote interface. Various functions described herein may be provided through a remote desktop environment or any other cloud based computing environment.

In various embodiments all or a portion of exemplary system in may facilitate multi tenancy within a cloud based computing environment. In other words the software modules described herein may configure a computing system e.g. a server to facilitate multi tenancy for one or more of the functions described herein. For example one or more of the software modules described herein may program a server to enable two or more clients e.g. customers to share an application that is running on the server. A server programmed in this manner may share an application operating system processing system and or storage system among multiple customers i.e. tenants . One or more of the modules described herein may also partition data and or configuration information of a multi tenant application for each customer such that one customer cannot access data and or configuration information of another customer.

According to various embodiments all or a portion of exemplary system in may be implemented within a virtual environment. For example modules and or data described herein may reside and or execute within a virtual machine. As used herein the phrase virtual machine generally refers to any operating system environment that is abstracted from computing hardware by a virtual machine manager e.g. a hypervisor . Additionally or alternatively the modules and or data described herein may reside and or execute within a virtualization layer. As used herein the phrase virtualization layer generally refers to any data layer and or application layer that overlays and or is abstracted from an operating system environment. A virtualization layer may be managed by a software virtualization solution e.g. a file system filter that presents the virtualization layer as though it were part of an underlying base operating system. For example a software virtualization solution may redirect calls that are initially directed to locations within a base file system and or registry to locations within a virtualization layer.

The process parameters and sequence of steps described and or illustrated herein are given by way of example only and can be varied as desired. For example while the steps illustrated and or described herein may be shown or discussed in a particular order these steps do not necessarily need to be performed in the order illustrated or discussed. The various exemplary methods described and or illustrated herein may also omit one or more of the steps described or illustrated herein or include additional steps in addition to those disclosed.

While various embodiments have been described and or illustrated herein in the context of fully functional computing systems one or more of these exemplary embodiments may be distributed as a program product in a variety of forms regardless of the particular type of computer readable storage media used to actually carry out the distribution. The embodiments disclosed herein may also be implemented using software modules that perform certain tasks. These software modules may include script batch or other executable files that may be stored on a computer readable storage medium or in a computing system. In some embodiments these software modules may configure a computing system to perform one or more of the exemplary embodiments disclosed herein.

In addition one or more of the modules described herein may transform data physical devices and or representations of physical devices from one form to another. For example one or more of the modules recited herein may receive a behavioral observation to be transformed transform the behavioral observation into an assessment of a near field communication attempt output a result of the transformation to a display to alert a user use the result of the transformation to prevent a transaction by the attempted near field communication and store the result of the transformation to a security database. Additionally or alternatively one or more of the modules recited herein may transform a processor volatile memory non volatile memory and or any other portion of a physical computing device from one form to another by executing on the computing device storing data on the computing device and or otherwise interacting with the computing device.

The preceding description has been provided to enable others skilled in the art to best utilize various aspects of the exemplary embodiments disclosed herein. This exemplary description is not intended to be exhaustive or to be limited to any precise form disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible without departing from the spirit and scope of the instant disclosure. The embodiments disclosed herein should be considered in all respects illustrative and not restrictive. Reference should be made to the appended claims and their equivalents in determining the scope of the instant disclosure.

Unless otherwise noted the terms a or an as used in the specification and claims are to be construed as meaning at least one of. In addition for ease of use the words including and having as used in the specification and claims are interchangeable with and have the same meaning as the word comprising. 

