---

title: Working machine
abstract: Provided is a working machine capable of decreasing a voltage of a DC busbar (DC bus) with a configuration suppressing a degradation in reliability. A hybrid type construction machine as a working machine includes: a DC bus which is connected to a rotation motor via an inverter circuit, a battery which is connected to the DC bus via a step-up/step-down converter and a switch, a controller which drives the inverter circuit and the step-up/step-down converter, a cooling liquid circulating system which includes a pump motor, and an inverter circuit which is connected to the DC bus and driving the pump motor. The controller includes a mode used for decreasing the voltage of the DC bus, and in that mode, the switch enters a disconnection state and the inverter circuit is operated to consume electricity in the pump motor.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09108516&OS=09108516&RS=09108516
owner: SUMITOMO (S.H.I.) CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY CO., LTD.
number: 09108516
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20131219
---
This application is a Continuation of co pending application Ser. No. 13 129 623 filed on Jun. 15 2011 which is the national phase of PCT International Application No. PCT JP2009 069485 filed on Nov. 17 2009 and which claims priority to Japanese Application No. 2008 294669 filed on Nov. 18 2008 Japanese Application No. 2008 294664 filed on Nov. 18 2008 Japanese Application No. 2008 295836 filed on Nov. 19 2008 Japanese Application No. 2009 005940 filed on Jan. 14 2009 Japanese Application No. 2008 052297 filed on Mar. 5 2009 Japanese Application No. 2009 068016 filed on Mar. 19 2009 Japanese Application No. 2009 068010 filed on Mar. 19 2009 Japanese Application No. 2009 070091 filed on Mar. 23 2009. The entire contents of all of the above applications are hereby incorporated by reference.

Hitherto a working machine in which a part of a driving mechanism is designed to be electrically operated has been proposed. Such a working machine includes a hydraulic pump which hydraulically drives movable portions for example a boom an arm and a bucket and an AC motor an electrical generator is connected to an internal combustion engine an engine driving the hydraulic pump to assist a driving force of the engine and to return electricity obtained by the generation of electricity to a DC bus a DC busbar via an inverter.

Furthermore the working machine includes for example a working component such as an upper rotation body of a construction machine in many cases. In such a case the working machine includes a working motor assisting the hydraulic motor in addition to the hydraulic motor driving the working component. For example when the upper rotation body is rotated the driving of the hydraulic motor is assisted by the AC motor while the rotation is accelerated a regenerative operation is performed in the AC motor while the rotation is decelerated and the generated electricity is returned to the DC bus via the inverter.

A storage battery a battery is connected to the DC bus via a converter and the battery is charged by the electricity generated by the AC motor. Alternatively the electricity is received and transmitted between the DC bus and the AC motor connected thereto.

In the working machine the voltage of the DC bus is set to be as high as for example several hundred volts in order to drive a large working component but it is desirable to decrease the voltage of the DC bus for the operator s safety during the maintenance thereof. For example in the device disclosed in PTL 1 the voltage of the DC bus is consumed by resistance in a manner such that a resistor and a switch are connected in series to each other between the positive and negative interconnections of the DC bus.

In the method of consuming the voltage of the DC bus by using resistance it is necessary to insert the switch to be connected in series to the resistor as disclosed in PTL 1 in order to consume the voltage of the DC bus in accordance with necessity. However as described above the voltage of the DC bus is as high as several hundred volts and a mechanical switch such as a relay is adopted as the switch used for that purpose in many cases. A mechanical switch has the disadvantages of low reliability and short life span and these disadvantages affect the reliability of the working machine.

An object of the invention is to provide a working machine capable of decreasing the voltage of a DC busbar DC bus with a configuration suppressing a degradation in reliability.

In order to solve the above described problem provided is a working machine including a working motor which is driven by an operator s operation a DC busbar which is connected to the working motor via a first inverter circuit a storage battery which is connected to the DC busbar via a DC voltage converter and a switch a control unit which controls the first inverter circuit the DC voltage converter and the switch a cooling motor which drives a cooling fan and or a cooling liquid circulating pump used for cooling at least one of the first inverter circuit the DC voltage converter and the control unit and a cooling motor driving circuit which is connected between the cooling motor and the DC busbar and is controlled by the control unit to drive the cooling motor wherein the control unit includes a busbar voltage lowering mode decreasing the voltage of the DC busbar when the operation of the working machine is stopped and decreases the voltage of the DC busbar in a manner such that the cooling motor driving circuit is operated after the switch enters a disconnection state to consume electricity in the cooling motor in the busbar voltage lowering mode.

The control unit may stop the operation of the cooling motor driving circuit when the voltage of the DC busbar becomes a predetermined value or less in the busbar voltage lowering mode.

The control unit may charge the storage battery by driving the DC voltage converter before the switch enters a disconnection state when the voltage of the DC busbar is higher than that of the storage battery upon starting the busbar voltage lowering mode.

The control unit may start the busbar voltage lowering mode whenever the operation of the working machine is stopped. Alternatively the control unit may start the busbar voltage lowering mode when there is an input from the operator while the operation of the working machine is stopped.

The working machine may further include an internal combustion engine a first cooling liquid circulating system which includes a first heat exchanger cooling the internal combustion engine and a second cooling liquid circulating system which includes a second heat exchanger provided separately from the first cooling liquid circulating system to cool the first inverter circuit and the DC voltage converter.

The working machine further includes an electrical generator which is connected to the internal combustion engine and generates electricity by a driving force of the internal combustion engine and a second inverter circuit of which one end is connected to the terminal of the electrical generator wherein the second cooling liquid circulating system may further cool the electrical generator and the second inverter circuit.

The second cooling liquid circulating system includes a temperature sensor and the control unit may restrict the output of at least one of the electrical generator and the working motor on the basis of the detection value of the temperature sensor.

In the second cooling liquid circulating system after the cooling liquid is delivered from the second heat exchanger the cooling liquid may pass the electrical generator and the working motor via the first inverter circuit the second inverter circuit and the DC voltage converter.

The working machine may further include a third cooling liquid circulating system including a third heat exchanger provided separately from the first and second cooling liquid circulating systems to cool the electrical generator and the working motor.

The electrical generator may assist a driving force of an internal combustion engine generator by its own driving force.

The DC voltage converter may include a reactor and the second cooling liquid circulating system may cool the reactor.

The working machine may further include a temperature sensor which detects the temperature of the reactor.

The second cooling liquid circulating system may include a cooling pipe and a thermal conductive plate and the reactor may be disposed on the thermal conductive plate.

The DC voltage converter includes an intelligent power module which controls a charging and discharging operation of the storage battery and the intelligent power module may be disposed on the thermal conductive plate.

The DC voltage converter may be formed as a sealed casing and a thermal conductive plate may be disposed on one surface of the casing.

The working machine may further include a plurality of driver units which includes an inverter unit having the first inverter circuit with an intelligent power module and a step up step down converter unit having the DC voltage converter with an intelligent power module wherein the plurality of driver units may include a second temperature sensor which is provided outside the intelligent power module to detect the temperature of the intelligent power module in addition to a first temperature sensor built in the intelligent power module and wherein when a temperature detection result obtained by the second temperature sensor is higher than a predetermined first threshold value lower than a temperature where an overheat protection function of the intelligent power module is operated by the first temperature sensor the control unit may decrease a maximum driving current to the working motor when the driver unit is the inverter unit and decrease a maximum discharging current from the storage battery and or a maximum charging current to the storage battery when the driver unit is the step up step down converter unit.

When the temperature detection result obtained by the second temperature sensor is lower than a temperature where the overheat protection function of the intelligent power module is operated by the first temperature sensor and is higher than the second threshold value larger than the first threshold value the control unit may stop the operation of the inverter circuit when the unit is the inverter unit and stop the operation of the DC voltage converter when the unit is the step up step down converter unit.

The plurality of units may include a thermal conductive plate having a heat radiation surface thermally coupled to the intelligent power module and the second temperature sensor may be disposed on the heat radiation surface of the thermal conductive plate.

The thermal conductive plate may be disposed to extend along the up and down direction of the construction machine and the second temperature sensor may be disposed above the intelligent power module inside the heat radiation surface of the thermal conductive plate.

The plurality of driver units may each include a casing accommodating the first inverter circuit or the DC voltage converter and be disposed in parallel along a predetermined direction and the casings of the adjacent driver units may be fixed to each other by a fastening tool.

The inside of the plurality of the driver units may become a sealed space during the operation of the working machine.

The working machine may include a control unit which serves as the control unit and the control unit may be placed on the plurality of driver units and be attached to be rotatable about a support shaft provided along the predetermined direction in one end of the plurality of driver units in the direction intersecting the predetermined direction.

The support tool may support the control unit while the control unit is opened about the support shaft with respect to the plurality of driver units.

The working machine may further include a pedestal having a bottom plate on which the plurality of driver units is placed and side plates which have the plurality of driver units interposed therebetween in a predetermined direction where the casing of the driver unit located at both ends of the plurality of driver units may be detachably fixed to the side plate of the pedestal by a fastening tool.

The working machine may further include a control unit which serves as the control unit wherein the control unit may include a casing which has a sealing structure a plurality of CPUs which is provided inside the casing and controls the DC voltage converters and the inverter circuits of the plurality of driver units and a cooling pipe which is thermally coupled to the plurality of CPUs and cools the plurality of CPUs by introducing a cooling liquid from the outside of the casing.

The control unit may be placed on the plurality of driver units and the cooling pipe may be disposed between the driver unit and the CPU.

The control unit may further include a thermal conductive plate provided between the CPU and the cooling pipe to be thermally coupled to the CPU and the cooling pipe.

The working machine may include the plurality of driver units each of the plurality of CPUs may be provided to correspond to each of the plurality of driver units inside the casing and the plurality of CPUs may be mounted on one substrate.

The cooling pipe may have a shape in which a plurality of pipe portions extending in a first direction and provided in parallel in a second direction intersecting the first direction is alternately connected to each other at one end side and the other end side thereof the thermal conductive plate may include a plurality of cooling areas extending in the first direction and arranged in the second direction each of the plurality of cooling areas is thermally coupled to two adjacent pipe portions among the plurality of pipe portions and in the plurality of CPUs one CPU may be thermally coupled to one cooling area.

The working machine may further include a thermal conductive sheet which includes an elastic material and is disposed between the CPU and the thermal conductive plate.

The working machine may further include a cooling liquid circulating system wherein at least apart of the cooling liquid of the cooling liquid circulating system delivered from the heat exchanger may pass the control unit the driver unit and the AC motor in this order.

The working machine may include a casing which fixes the inverter unit and the step up step down converter unit and the input terminal of the inverter unit and the input terminal of the step up step down converter unit may be connected to a DC bus formed as a busbar.

The inverter unit and the step up step down converter unit each may have a rectangular external shape and may be fixed while being arranged in the first direction. In the inverter unit and the step up step down converter unit a notch portion may be provided in the side plate adjacent to the peripheral unit and the DC bus may be provided in the notch portion along the first direction.

The working machine may include three or more driver units having any one of the inverter unit and the step up step down converter unit and in one unit disposed between two different driver units the DC bus may be provided to penetrate the one unit.

The DC bus may have a positive electrode and a negative electrode and one of the positive electrode and the negative electrode may be formed to cover the other electrode.

The inverter unit may include a smoothing capacitor and the DC bus may be directly connected to the smoothing capacitor.

Preferably the working machine may further include a cooling device which cools the first inverter circuit and a temperature detection means which detects the temperature of a refrigerant in the cooling device wherein the first inverter circuit may include a mechanism which stops a supply of current for driving the working motor when detecting that the temperature of the first inverter circuit becomes a predetermined operation stop temperature or higher wherein when the temperature of the refrigerant obtained from the temperature detection means is higher than a predetermined output suppressing temperature the control unit may compare the state with the case where the temperature of the refrigerant is the output suppressing temperature or lower and control the first inverter circuit to decrease an upper limit value of a current supplied to the working motor and wherein the output suppressing temperature may be lower than the operation stop temperature.

The control unit may control the first inverter circuit so that the upper limit value of the current supplied to the working motor decreases by restricting the upper limit value of the torque generated by the working motor.

The working machine may further include an electrical generator connected to an internal combustion engine and a second inverter circuit controlling the driving of the electrical generator. The cooling device may cool the first and second inverter circuits. The control unit may control the first and second inverter circuits. When the temperature of the refrigerant obtained from the temperature detection means is greater than a predetermined output suppressing temperature the control unit may control the first and second inverter circuits so that the upper limit value of the current supplied to the working motor and the electrical generator decreases by the comparison with the case where the temperature of the refrigerant is the output suppressing temperature or less.

According to the invention the voltage of the DC busbar the DC bus may be decreased with a configuration suppressing a decrease in reliability.

Hereinafter embodiments of a working machine of the invention will be described in detail by referring to the accompanying drawings. Furthermore regarding the description of the drawings the same reference numerals will be given to the same components and the repetitive description thereof will be omitted.

Furthermore the hybrid type construction machine includes a servo control unit . The servo control unit controls an AC motor driving a working component such as the rotation mechanism or the lifting magnet or an electrical generator assisting the engine and a charging and discharging operation of an electrical storage device a battery a capacitor or the like . The servo control unit includes an inverter unit driving an AC motor or an electrical generator by converting DC power into AC power a plurality of driver units such as a step up step down converter unit controlling a charging and discharging of the battery and a control unit controlling the plurality of driver units.

As shown in the hybrid type construction machine includes an electrical generator an AC motor and a speed reducer and the rotary shafts of the engine and the electrical generator are all connected to the input shaft of the speed reducer so that the rotary shafts are connected to each other. When the load of the engine is large the electrical generator assists the driving force of the engine by driving the engine as the working component so that the driving force of the electrical generator is transferred to a main pump via the output shaft of the speed reducer .

On the other hand when the load of the engine is small the driving force of the engine is transferred to the electrical generator via the speed reducer so that electricity is generated by the electrical generator . The electrical generator is configured as for example an IPM Interior Permanent Magnetic motor in which a magnet is embedded in a rotor. The driving and the generation of electricity of the electrical generator are switched by a controller controlling the driving of the electrical system in the hybrid type construction machine in accordance with the load or the like of the engine .

The main pump and a pilot pump are connected to the output shaft of the speed reducer and a control valve is connected to the main pump via a high pressure hydraulic line . The control valve is a device that controls the hydraulic system of the hybrid type construction machine . The boom cylinder the arm cylinder and the bucket cylinder are connected to the control valve via the high pressure hydraulic line in addition to hydraulic motors and driving the running mechanism shown in and the control valve controls the hydraulic pressure supplied thereto in accordance with the operation input from the operator. Here the speed reducer accelerates the rotation of the engine and transmits the accelerated rotation to the electrical generator . Then the speed reducer decelerates the rotation of the electrical generator and assists the rotation of the engine.

An output terminal of an inverter circuit A is connected to the electrical terminal of the electrical generator . The inverter circuit A is a second inverter circuit of the embodiment. The input terminal of the inverter circuit A is connected to the electrical storage means . As shown in the electrical storage means includes a DC bus which is a DC busbar a step up step down converter a DC voltage converter and a battery . That is the input terminal of the inverter circuit A is connected to the input terminal of the step up step down converter via the DC bus . The battery as a storage battery is connected to the output terminal of the step up step down converter . The battery is configured as for example a capacitor type storage battery.

The inverter circuit A controls the operation of the electrical generator on the basis of the instruction from the controller . That is when the inverter circuit A performs a power running operation of the electrical generator the necessary electricity is supplied from the battery and the step up step down converter to the electrical generator via the DC bus . Furthermore when the regenerative operation of the electrical generator is performed the battery is charged by the electricity generated by the electrical generator via the DC bus and the step up step down converter . Furthermore the step up operation and the step down operation of the step up step down converter are switched by the controller on the basis of the DC bus voltage value the battery voltage value and the battery current value. Accordingly the DC bus may be maintained at a state where a predetermined constant voltage value is stored.

The lifting magnet is connected to the DC bus of the electrical storage means via an inverter circuit B. The lifting magnet includes an electromagnet that generates a magnetic force magnetically adsorbing a metallic substance and electricity is supplied from the DC bus via the inverter circuit B. When the electromagnet enters an on state on the basis of the instruction from the controller the inverter circuit B supplies the electricity necessary for the lifting magnet from the DC bus . Furthermore when the electromagnet enters an off state the regenerated electricity is supplied to the DC bus .

Furthermore the inverter circuit A is connected to the electrical storage means . A rotation motor an AC motor as a working motor is connected to one end of the inverter circuit A and the other end of the inverter circuit A is connected to the DC bus of the electrical storage means . The rotation motor is a power source for the rotation mechanism that rotates the rotation body . A resolver a mechanical brake and a rotation speed reducer are connected to a rotary shaft A of a rotation motor . Furthermore the inverter circuit A is a first inverter circuit of the embodiment.

When the power running operation of the rotation motor is performed the rotation force generated by the rotation driving force of the rotation motor is amplified by the rotation speed reducer and the rotation body rotates while being controlled to be accelerated and decelerated. Furthermore the rpm is increased at the rotation speed reducer by the inertia rotation of the rotation body and the rotation is transferred to the rotation motor thereby generating regenerative electricity. The rotation motor is AC driven by the inverter circuit A on the basis of the PWM Pulse Width Modulation control signal. As the rotation motor for example an IPM motor embedded with a magnet may be appropriately used.

The resolver is a sensor which detects the rotation position and the rotation angle of the rotary shaft A of the rotation motor and detects the rotation angle and the rotation direction of the rotary shaft A by being mechanically connected to the rotation motor . Since the resolver detects the rotation angle of the rotary shaft A the rotation angle and the rotation direction of the rotation mechanism are derived. The mechanical brake is a brake device which generates a mechanical brake force and mechanically stops the rotary shaft A of the rotation motor on the basis of the instruction from the controller . The rotation speed reducer is a speed reducer which decreases the rotation speed of the rotary shaft A of the rotation motor and mechanically transfers the decreased rotation speed to the rotation mechanism .

Furthermore since the electrical generator the rotation motor and the lifting magnet are connected to the DC bus via the inverter circuits A A and B the electricity generated by the electrical generator may be directly supplied to the lifting magnet or the rotation motor the electricity regenerated by the lifting magnet may be supplied to the electrical generator or the rotation motor or the electricity regenerated by the rotation motor may be supplied to the electrical generator or the lifting magnet .

Since the inverter circuits A A and B control a large amount of electricity the heating amount thereof considerably increases. Furthermore the heating amount greatly increases even in a reactor refer to included in the step up step down converter . Accordingly there is a need to cool the inverter circuits A A and B and the step up step down converter . Therefore the hybrid type construction machine of the embodiment includes a cooling liquid circulating system which is provided separately from the cooling liquid circulating system for the engine to cool the step up step down converter and the inverter circuits A A and B.

As shown in the hybrid type construction machine includes a first cooling liquid circulating system for the internal combustion engine and a second cooling liquid circulating system for the electrical system which are independent from each other. The first cooling liquid circulating system is driven by a pump motor and cools the engine . The second cooling liquid circulating system includes a step up step down converter a pump a cooling liquid circulating pump which circulates a cooling liquid supplied to the inverter circuits A A and B and a pump motor a cooling motor which drives the pump . The pump motor is connected to the electrical storage means via the inverter circuit C. The inverter circuit C serves as a cooling motor driving circuit of the embodiment and supplies electricity necessary for the pump motor when cooling the step up step down converter on the basis of the instruction from the controller . The cooling liquid circulating system of the embodiment cools the step up step down converter the inverter circuits A A and B and the controller . Furthermore the cooling liquid circulating system cools the electrical generator the speed reducer and the rotation motor .

An operation device is connected to the pilot pump via a pilot line . The operation device is an operation device which is used to operate the rotation motor the running mechanism the boom the arm and the lifting magnet and is operated by the operator. The control valve is connected to the operation device via a hydraulic line and the pressure sensor is connected thereto via a hydraulic line . The operation device converts a hydraulic pressure a primary hydraulic pressure supplied via the pilot line into a hydraulic pressure a secondary hydraulic pressure in accordance with an amount operated by the operator. The secondary hydraulic pressure output from the operation device is supplied to the control valve via the hydraulic line and is detected by the pressure sensor and the outputs the converted hydraulic pressure. The hydraulic oil transferred to the boom cylinder the arm cylinder and the like is controlled by switching the electromagnetic valve or the switching valve inside the control valve . Here the rotation motor is exemplified as the working motor but the running mechanism may be electrically driven by the working motor. Further when the invention is applied to the forklift the lifting device may be electrically driven by the working motor.

When an operation for rotating the rotation mechanism is input to the operation device the pressure sensor detects the operation amount as a change in hydraulic pressure inside the hydraulic line . The pressure sensor outputs an electrical signal representing the hydraulic pressure inside the hydraulic line . The electrical signal is input to the controller and is used to control the driving of the rotation motor .

The controller constitutes the control unit of the embodiment. The controller includes a calculation processing device having a CPU Central Processing Unit and an internal memory and is realized by executing the driving control program stored in the internal memory via the CPU. Furthermore the power supply of the controller is a battery for example 24 V of an in vehicle battery different from the battery . The controller converts a signal representing an operation amount for rotating the rotation mechanism among the signals input from the pressure sensor into a speed instruction and controls the rotation motor by driving the inverter circuit A on the basis of the speed instruction. Furthermore the controller executes an operation control switching an assisting operation and an electricity generation operation of the electrical generator by driving the inverter circuit A executes the driving control switching magnetization and demagnetization of the lifting magnet by driving the inverter circuit B and executes the charging and discharging control of the battery by controlling the driving of the step up step down converter .

Furthermore the controller of the embodiment has a DC bus voltage lowering mode a busbar voltage lowering mode for decreasing the voltage of the DC bus specifically consuming the electrical charge stored in a smoothing capacitor or the like connected to the DC bus when the maintenance of the hybrid type construction machine is performed. In the DC bus voltage lowering mode the controller stops the operation of all the inverter circuits A A and B and the step up step down converter and decrease the voltage of the DC bus by driving the inverter circuit C to consume the electricity in the pump motor after a switch to be described later provided between the step up step down converter and the battery enters a disconnection state. The DC bus voltage lowering mode is started when the operation of the hybrid type construction machine is stopped specifically when the engine is about to be stopped by the operator operating the key or an input related to the start of the DC bus voltage lowering mode is performed by the operator via the operation panel inside the operation room refer to .

Furthermore when the inverter circuits A A and B and the step up step down converter are driven the controller of the embodiment restricts the current flowing to the circuit in accordance with the temperature of the IPM included in the circuit. That is when the temperature of the IPM is the first threshold value T or lower the controller sets the maximum current value that does not disturb the normal operation and drives the circuit any one of the inverter circuits A A and B and the step up step down converter so as not to be higher than the maximum current value. Then when the temperature of the IPM becomes higher than the first threshold value T in the case of the abnormal temperature the maximum current value to the circuit is set to be smaller than the maximum current value in the normal case and the circuit is driven so as not to be higher than the maximum current value in the case of the abnormal temperature. Furthermore when the temperature of the IPM becomes equal to or lower than a third threshold value T 

Furthermore when the temperature of the IPM becomes higher than the second threshold value T T higher than the first threshold value T the controller stops the operation of the circuit any one of the inverter circuits A A and B and the step up step down converter including the IPM. Furthermore the second threshold value T is set to be lower than the temperature at which the overheat protection function embedded in the IPM is operated.

Here the step up step down converter of the embodiment will be described in detail. As shown in the step up step down converter has a step up step down type switching control mode and includes a reactor and transistors B and C. The transistor B is a step up switching element and the transistor C is a step down switching element. The transistors B and C are each configured as for example an IGBT Insulated Gate Bipolar Transistor and are connected to each other in series.

Specifically the collector of the transistor B and the emitter of the transistor C are connected to each other the emitter of the transistor B is connected to the negative terminal of the battery and the negative interconnection of the DC bus via the switch F and the collector of the transistor C is connected to the positive interconnection of the DC bus . Then in the reactor one end thereof is connected to the collector of the transistor B and the emitter of the transistor C and the other end thereof is connected to the positive terminal of the battery via the switch E. A PWM voltage is applied from the controller to the gates of the transistors B and C. The connection states of the switches E and F are controlled by the instruction from the controller .

Furthermore a diode as a rectifying element is reversely connected in parallel between the collector and the emitter of the transistor B. In the same manner a diode is reversely connected in parallel between the collector and the emitter of the transistor C. A smoothening capacitor is connected between the collector of the transistor C and the emitter of the transistor B that is between the positive interconnection and the negative interconnection of the DC bus and the capacitor smoothens the voltage output from the step up step down converter the voltage generated from the electrical generator or the voltage regenerated from the rotation motor . A voltage sensor is provided between the positive interconnection and the negative interconnection of the DC bus to detect the voltage of the DC bus . The voltage detection result obtained by the voltage sensor is provided for the controller .

In the step up step down converter with such a configuration when DC power is supplied from the battery to the DC bus a PWM voltage is applied to the gate of the transistor B on the basis of the instruction from the controller while the switches E and F are connected to each other. Then an induced electromotive force generated in the reactor with the on off of the transistor B is transferred via the diode and the electricity is smoothed by the capacitor . Furthermore when DC power is supplied from the DC bus to the battery a PWM voltage is applied to the gate of the transistor C on the basis of the instruction from the controller while the switches E and F are connected to each other and the current output from the transistor C is smoothened by the reactor .

Furthermore as shown in the second cooling liquid circulating system includes a pump driven by the pump motor a radiator and a servo control unit . The cooling liquid circulated by the pump radiates heat by the radiator and is supplied to the servo control unit . The servo control unit accommodates a plurality of modules respectively constituting the step up step down converter the inverter circuits A A and B and the controller and has a pipe cooling the modules. The cooling liquid passing the pipe of the servo control unit is returned from the pump to the radiator after sequentially cooling the rotation motor the electrical generator and the speed reducer in this order. Furthermore the radiator is an example of a second heat exchanger of the invention. Furthermore it is desirable that the inlet of the servo control unit is provided with a temperature sensor detecting the temperature of the cooling liquid. Furthermore it is more desirable that a display device displaying the detected temperature is provided. Accordingly when the cooling performance is degraded due to the blocking of the radiator a control device inside a control unit to be described later may control the output from any one of the rotation motor and the electrical generator on the basis of the detection value. As a result a continuous operation may be performed and continuous work may be performed without stopping the hybrid type construction machine.

Next the servo control unit will be described by referring to . is a perspective view illustrating an external shape of the servo control unit . The servo control unit is a device that controls the electrical generator the rotation motor and the battery . The servo control unit has a substantially rectangular shape when seen from the outside thereof and includes the control unit accommodating the controller a step up step down converter unit and inverter units to . The step up step down converter unit and the inverter units to constitute a plurality of driver units of the embodiment. The step up step down converter unit accommodates the step up step down converter and the inverter units to accommodate for example the inverter circuits A A B and the other inverter circuits.

Each of the step up step down converter unit and the inverter units to has a rectangular metallic container which is elongated in the depth direction. The units to are installed inside a plate like pedestal of which a metallic upper surface is opened while the units are arranged in the direction intersecting the length direction thereof and are respectively fixed to the plate like pedestal by bolts. Then a control unit bottom plate as an upper cover is provided on the units to to cover the upper surfaces of the units to and the control unit is placed on the control unit bottom plate . Further a heat sink is attached to the upper surface of the control unit for the purpose of air cooling. The upper surface sides of the units to are sealed by the control unit bottom plate .

The control unit accommodates a controller controlling the step up step down converter unit and the inverter units to . The controller includes an electronic circuit or a calculation processing device including a CPU and an internal memory and is realized by executing a driving control program stored in the internal memory by the CPU.

Furthermore a cooling pipe is built in the control unit . In the same manner a cooling pipe is built in the step up step down converter unit and cooling pipes to are respectively built in the inverter units to .

Then the pipes J and H are respectively connected to the other ends of the cooling pipes to of the inverter units to . The pipes J and H are connected to one pipe K and the pipe K extends to for example another cooling target component such as the rotation motor .

Next the configuration of the control unit will be described in detail. is a plan cross sectional view illustrating the control unit is a side cross sectional view taken along the line I I of is a side cross sectional view taken along the line II II of and is a side cross sectional view taken along the line III III of . Furthermore is a side cross sectional view taken along the line IV IV of and is a side view when the control unit is seen from the same direction as that of .

The control unit includes a casing having a casing container and a casing cover and the electronic circuit of the controller or the like is accommodated inside the casing .

The casing of the control unit has a rectangular external shape and is provided on the step up step down converter unit and the inverter units to as a plurality of driver units. Furthermore the casing has a substantially rectangular internal space on a bottom surface having a substantially rectangular planar shape. The internal space is isolated from the external air and the casing of the control unit is sealed. Furthermore the arrangement direction of the units to is aligned with the width direction of the control unit and the direction corresponds to the up and down direction of the paper surface of . Furthermore the direction intersecting the arrangement direction of the plurality of units to is aligned with the length direction of the control unit and the direction corresponds to the left right direction of the paper surface of .

A card plate having a rectangular planar shape is provided on the bottom surface inside the casing . The card plate is disposed so that the length direction and the width direction of the card plate are respectively aligned with the length direction and the width direction of the control unit . The card plate is provided with a substantially rectangular planar opening.

At the inside of the opening of the card plate a heat sink a thermal conductive plate having substantially the same planar shape as that of the opening and a substantially rectangular external shape is provided on the bottom surface inside the casing . The heat sink is used to cool an electronic component provided inside the casing and the cooling pipe is thermally coupled to the heat sink for example in a contact state . The heat sink is cooled by the cooling liquid circulating in the cooling pipe . The cooling liquid is for example water.

A control card as a substrate with a substantially rectangular planar shape is provided on the heat sink . The control card is a substrate on which various electronic components are mounted and the rear surface thereof is disposed to face the heat sink . A plurality of CPUs to as one type of electronic components is mounted on the rear surface of the control card . The plurality of CPUs to respectively corresponds to the plurality of units to and controls an on off state of the transistors included in the inverter circuits of the units respectively corresponding to the units to . Furthermore the plurality of CPUs to is thermally coupled to the heat sink . That is the heat sink is provided between the plurality of CPUs to and the cooling pipe .

Furthermore a plurality of field effect transistors FETs as one type of electronic components is mounted on the front surface of the control card . The plurality of FETs transmits a switching signal to the electromagnetic valve of the control valve in order to control the operations of the boom the arm and the like. The plurality of FETs is disposed around a connector in consideration of the interconnection inside the control unit . A heat transfer plate made of aluminum contacts the rear surface of each FET and the end portion of the heat transfer plate is fixed to the inner surface of the casing container by a screw.

A plurality of cooling fans is disposed on the card plate in the width direction of the control unit . The plurality of cooling fans is provided to respectively correspond to the CPUs to in order to solve the temperature gradient inside the casing by mixing air heated by heat generated from the CPUs to and generates an air stream toward each of the CPUs to

The bottom surface inside the casing is provided with a card plate having a rectangular planar shape as well as the card plate . A power supply card is provided on the card plate . Two power supply ICs power supply units are provided on the power supply card . Each power supply IC is provided with a heat sink that air cools the power supply IC. Furthermore a thermal conductive plate is provided to contact the inner surface of the casing and the power supply IC and the heat sink come into plane contact with the thermal conductive plate . For this reason a part of the heat generated from the power supply IC may be radiated. Furthermore two cooling fans are provided on the card plate . The cooling fans are provided to solve the temperature gradient inside the casing by mixing the air heated by heat generated from the power supply IC and generate an air stream toward the power supply IC .

The input output portion of the electronic component mounted on the control card is connected to the connector and for example an instruction signal for operating the units to or an output signal from the electronic component is input and output via the connector . The connector is connected to a control unit not shown controlling for example the servo control unit by an interconnection.

The connector is provided in a concave recess portion in the side surface of the casing and the recess portion is covered by the packing . The packing is covered by a packing pressing member with the casing cover interposed therebetween. The packing realizes waterproofing and dustproofing of the connector .

Here the water cooling structure of the control unit will be described in more detail. are diagrams illustrating the cooling structure. is a plan view illustrating the heat sink and the cooling pipe and is a side cross sectional view taken along the line V V of . Furthermore is a plan view illustrating the control card disposed to cover the heat sink and the cooling pipe . Furthermore is a side cross sectional view illustrating a part of the cross section taken along the line VI VI of .

As shown in the cooling pipe of the embodiment is molded in a hair pin pipe shape and is bonded and fixed to the rear surface side of the heat sink . More specifically the cooling pipe includes a plurality of pipe portions . Each of the plurality of pipe portions extends in the width direction in the embodiment a first direction of the heat sink and the pipe portions are provided in parallel with a predetermined interval in the length direction in the embodiment a second direction of the heat sink intersecting the width direction. Then one end side and the other end side of the plurality of pipe portions are alternately connected by U shaped pipe portions thereby forming a single pipe as an entirety.

The heat sink includes a plurality of rectangular cooling areas to extending in the width direction the first direction of the heat sink and arranged in the length direction the second direction of the heat sink . In each of the plurality of cooling areas to two adjacent pipe portions among the plurality of pipe portions are thermally coupled to each other. In other words each of the plurality of cooling areas to is defined to include two pipe portions in the plan view.

Furthermore by referring to as described above the plurality of CPUs to is mounted on the rear surface of the control card and a plurality of electrical components such as an electrical contact is provided on the front surface of the control card to generate an electrical signal to an electromagnetic valve or a switching valve. Then the plurality of CPUs to is connected to each other by a pattern interconnection formed on the control card and performs communication therebetween. The CPUs to are arranged in the length direction the second direction of the heat sink and are respectively disposed on the cooling areas to of the heat sink . Then the CPU is thermally coupled to the cooling area of the heat sink via a thermal conductive sheet and the CPU is thermally coupled to the cooling area via the thermal conductive sheet refer to . In the same manner the CPUs to are thermally coupled to the cooling areas to via the thermal conductive sheet. That is in the embodiment in the plurality of CPUs to one CPU is thermally coupled to one cooling area.

Furthermore for example as shown in a CPU is mounted on the control card separately from the CPUs to . The CPU is for example an upper level CPU that generally controls the plurality of CPUs to . Since the heating amount of the CPU is not greater than those of the CPUs to controlling the inverter circuit or the like the CPU is disposed at an arbitrary position on the control card regardless of the cooling areas to

Furthermore as described above the CPUs to are thermally coupled to the heat sink via a thermal conductive sheet disposed between the CPUs to and the heat sink . It is desirable that the thermal conductive sheet includes an elastic material capable of absorbing a vibration transferred from the heat sink to the CPUs to and is formed of for example silicon rubber.

Next the water cooling structure of the step up step down converter unit and the inverter units to will be described in detail. is a plan view illustrating an internal configuration of the step up step down converter unit . Furthermore is a side view illustrating an internal configuration of the step up step down converter unit . Furthermore in the drawings the ceiling plate or the side plate of the casing is detached so that the internal configuration of the step up step down converter unit may be understood.

The step up step down converter unit includes therein an IPM Intelligent Power Module obtained by assembling the transistors B and C refer to of the step up step down converter the reactor and the cooling pipe . The IPM is mounted on the interconnection substrate . The cooling pipe is disposed in a two dimensional shape along the side surface of the step up step down converter unit . Specifically the cooling pipe is accommodated in a metallic container with a rectangular cross section while being bent several times and made as long as possible inside the step up step down converter unit and contacts the inner surface of the metallic container . The metallic container constitutes the thermal conductive plate of the embodiment and is disposed to extend along the up and down direction of the hybrid type construction machine . As shown in the reactor and the IPM are disposed to contact the outer surface of the metallic container and the outer surface of the metallic container serves as a heat radiation surface that is thermally coupled to the reactor and the IPM . That is the metallic container transfers the heat generated from the reactor and the IPM to the cooling pipe . Accordingly the reactor and the IPM are cooled. Here the metallic container has an area wider than that of the reactor . Furthermore the metallic container has an area wider than that of the IPM . In this manner since the metallic container has a sufficiently wide contact area with respect to the reactor and the IPM the heat generated from the reactor and the IPM may be transferred thereto.

Furthermore it is desirable that the reactor is provided with a temperature sensor detecting the temperature of the reactor . Accordingly an abnormal temperature of the reactor may be monitored. Accordingly when heat is excessively generated from the reactor the charging and discharging of the battery may be restricted. As a result since the short circuiting of the reactor is prevented the continuous operation may be performed and the continuous work may be performed without stopping the hybrid type construction machine.

Furthermore the step up step down converter unit includes a temperature sensor which detects the temperature of the IPM . The temperature sensor is a second temperature sensor of the embodiment and is provided at the outside of the IPM separately from the temperature sensor the first temperature sensor built in the IPM . The temperature sensor is disposed in the vicinity of the IPM desirably adjacent to the IPM on the outer surface of the metallic container . Specifically the temperature sensor is disposed on an area located at the upper side of the IPM that is between the IPM and the control unit inside the outer surface of the metallic container

The inverter unit includes therein an IPM obtained by assembling the transistor of the inverter circuit A and the cooling pipe . The IPM is mounted on the interconnection substrate . The cooling pipe is disposed in the step up step down converter unit in the same manner as the cooling pipe . The cooling pipe is accommodated in a metallic container with a rectangular cross section and contacts the inner surface of the metallic container . The metallic container constitutes the thermal conductive plate of the embodiment and is disposed to extend along the up and down direction of the hybrid type construction machine . As shown in the outer surface of the metallic container is provided with the IPM in a contact manner and the outer surface of the metallic container serves as a heat radiation surface that is thermally coupled to the IPM . That is the metallic container transfers the heat from the IPM to the cooling pipe . Accordingly the IPM is cooled.

Furthermore the inverter unit includes a temperature sensor which detects the temperature of the IPM . The temperature sensor is a second temperature sensor of the embodiment and is provided at the outside of the IMP separately from the temperature sensor the first temperature sensor built in the IPM . The temperature sensor is disposed in the vicinity of the IPM desirably adjacent to the IPM on the outer surface of the metallic container . Specifically the temperature sensor is disposed on an area located at the upper side of the IPM that is between the IPM and the control unit inside the outer surface of the metallic container

Here the example of the internal configuration of the IPM such as the IPMs and will be described. is a side cross sectional view illustrating an internal configuration of the IPM . Furthermore since the internal configuration of the IPM is substantially the same as that of the IPM the detailed description thereof will be omitted.

The IPM includes a planar metallic base which is made of metal for example copper or aluminum having high thermal conductivity an insulation substrate which is provided on one surface of the metallic base and transistors B and C which are mounted on the insulation substrate . The transistors B and C are connected to each other by a pattern interconnection or a bonding wire disposed on the insulation substrate . Furthermore apart of the terminals of the transistors B and C are connected to the interconnection substrate disposed above the transistors B and C via a bonding wire . Various electronic components such as diodes and are mounted on the interconnection substrate to be connected to the transistors B and C.

The insulation substrate the transistors B and C the interconnection substrate and the electronic component such as the diodes and are sealed by a package . Then the other surface of the metallic base is exposed from the package and the IPM is fixed while the surface contacts the metallic container

Furthermore a temperature sensor is disposed on the insulation substrate to detect the temperature of the transistors B and C. The temperature sensor is a first temperature sensor of the embodiment and the IPM. determines whether its own operation is stopped on the basis of the temperature detection result of the temperature sensor in the overheat protection function as the own protection function. Furthermore for example as shown in the temperature sensor the second temperature sensor disposed at the outside of the IPM is disposed adjacent to the metallic base .

As shown in the rotation motor includes a driving unit casing a stator which is attached to the driving unit casing a rotor which is disposed to be rotatable at the inside of the stator in the radial direction and an output shaft which extends to penetrate the rotor and is disposed to be rotatable by bearings and with respect to the driving unit casing . The driving unit casing includes side plates and and a cylindrical motor frame attached between the side plates and and extending in the axial direction where the bearing is attached to the side plate the bearing is attached to the side plate and the stator is attached to the motor frame .

The stator includes a coil not shown . When a predetermined current is supplied to the coil the rotation motor is driven and the rotor rotates at a rotation speed corresponding to the magnitude of the current. Then the rotation of the rotor is transferred to the output shaft attached with the rotor .

In order to radiate the heat generated with the driving of the rotation motor and to cool the rotation motor a jacket is attached to the outer periphery of the driving unit casing . The jacket includes a cooling liquid supply port to which the cooling liquid is supplied a cooling liquid discharge port from which the cooling liquid having a high temperature after cooling the rotation motor is discharged and one cooling liquid passage which connects the cooling liquid supply port and the cooling liquid discharge port to each other and extends in a spiral shape or a meander shape. The cooling liquid supplied from the pump to the cooling liquid supply port via the radiator and the servo control unit flows inside the cooling liquid passage in a meandering manner and cools the rotation motor in the meantime. Then the cooling liquid is discharged from the cooling liquid discharge port . Furthermore as shown in it is desirable that the second cooling liquid circulating system is provided with an auxiliary tank that supplements the cooling liquid.

Here the DC bus voltage lowering mode of the controller will be described further. As described above the DC bus voltage lowering mode indicates an operation mode for decreasing the voltage of the DC bus while the operation of the hybrid type construction machine is stopped. Then in this mode the inverter circuits A A and B and the step up step down converter are all stopped the switches E and F provided between the step up step down converter and the battery enters a disconnection state and the inverter circuit C is driven to consume the electricity in the pump motor thereby decreasing the voltage of the DC bus .

At this time the inverter circuit C continuously drives the pump motor as the cooling motor and the cooling liquid continuously circulates inside the cooling liquid circulating system by the pump motor . The controller continuously operates the pump motor by continuously driving the inverter circuit C step S . The inverter circuit C is continuously driven until the voltage of the DC bus detected by the voltage sensor of becomes a predetermined threshold value or less step S No .

Then when the voltage of the DC bus becomes a predetermined threshold value or less step S Yes the controller stops the driving of the inverter circuit C step S . Accordingly the operation of the pump motor is stopped so that the DC bus voltage lowering mode is finished and the operation of the hybrid type construction machine is completely stopped.

The effect obtained by the hybrid type construction machine of the embodiment will be described. As described above the hybrid type construction machine includes a cooling liquid circulating pump that cools the inverter units to the step up step down converter unit or the control unit . Then when the voltage of the DC bus is decreased with the necessity of maintenance the controller drives the pump motor driving the pump by the voltage of the DC bus so that the voltage of the DC bus is consumed. Originally the pump is mounted on the hybrid type construction machine to cool the inverter units to or the step up step down converter unit . Therefore according to this method a new component such as a resistor or a switch may not be further provided for only the DC bus voltage lowering mode. Accordingly according to the hybrid type construction machine of the embodiment the voltage of the DC bus may be decreased with a configuration suppressing a degradation in reliability.

Furthermore the pump motor is different from for example the electrical generator driving the hydraulic pump or the working motor such as the rotation motor driving the working component such as the rotation body . Even when the pump motor is driven the cooling liquid just circulates inside the pipe without applying a driving force to the movable portion the working component or the like. Therefore according to the hybrid type construction machine of the embodiment since the voltage of the DC bus may be decreased without applying a driving force to a work component or the like the voltage of the DC bus may be safely decreased.

Furthermore in the embodiment the controller starts the DC bus voltage lowering mode whenever the operation of the hybrid type construction machine is stopped. Accordingly when the operation of the hybrid type construction machine is stopped the voltage of the DC bus is decreased at all times and the work of decreasing the voltage of the DC bus during the maintenance may be omitted.

Furthermore in the embodiment the cooling liquid circulating system including the pump motor and the pump cools the inverter units to the inverter circuits A A and B the step up step down converter unit the step up step down converter and the control unit the controller but even in the pump and the pump motor cooling at least one of these the voltage of the DC bus may be appropriately decreased by driving the pump motor.

Furthermore in the embodiment the pump motor is driven to decrease the voltage of the DC bus the cooling fans and shown in may be rotated to decrease the voltage of the DC bus or such methods may be used together. Specifically a circuit a cooling motor driving circuit driving a motor that is a cooling motor driving the cooling fans and is provided between the DC bus and the motor and the circuit is controlled by the controller . Then in the DC bus voltage lowering mode the controller rotates the motor by the circuit so that the voltage of the DC bus is consumed. Furthermore in the embodiment the cooling fan is provided only at the control unit but the cooling fan may be built in any one of the inverter units to the inverter circuits A A and B the step up step down converter unit the step up step down converter and the control unit the controller .

Furthermore in the exiting hybrid type construction machine the AC power obtained by the electrical generator needs to be converted into the DC power in order to charge the storage battery. Alternatively the DC power of the storage battery needs to be converted into the AC power in order to drive the electrical generator. Accordingly the inverter circuit is connected to the rear stage of the electrical generator. Furthermore the DC voltage converter the step up step down converter needs to be provided between the inverter circuit and the storage battery in order to control the charging and discharging of the storage battery. Furthermore another inverter circuit is provided between the motor and the inverter circuit of the electrical generator in order to control the power running operation and the regenerative operation of the rotation motor.

Since the inverter circuit or the DC voltage converter includes a plurality of transistors for large amounts of electricity the heating amount thereof increases. Accordingly although it is necessary to cool the circuit component it is difficult to ensure the sufficient cooling capability in the air cooling method using the heat sink. Furthermore since the cooling water of the engine has a high temperature due to the heat emitted from the engine it is difficult to cool the circuit component by using the cooling water. Further when the engine is stopped the fan of the radiator is stopped so that the radiator may not be used.

The hybrid type construction machine of the embodiment includes the second cooling liquid circulating system. which is provided to cool the step up step down converter or the inverter circuits A A and B separately from the first cooling liquid circulating system cooling the engine . Accordingly a sufficient cooling performance may be ensured compared to the air cooling method and the cooling liquid may be maintained at a low temperature compared to the engine cooling liquid so that the step up step down converter and the inverter circuits A A and B may be effectively cooled. Furthermore even when the engine is stopped the step up step down converter and the inverter circuits may be continuously cooled as long as the pump motor and the radiator are operated.

Furthermore in the embodiment the second cooling liquid circulating system cools not only the step up step down converter and the inverter circuits A A and B but also the electrical generator and the rotation motor . In the invention this method is more desirable whereby the electrical generator and the rotation motor may also be effectively cooled. Furthermore in the second cooling liquid circulating system of the embodiment the cooling liquid is delivered from the radiator passes the driver units to of the servo control unit accommodating the step up step down converter and the inverter circuits A A and B and then passes the electrical generator and the rotation motor . In this manner the driver units to each having a comparatively low temperature are cooled first and the electrical generator and the rotation motor each having a comparatively high temperature are cooled thereby further improving the cooling efficiency of the second cooling liquid circulating system .

Furthermore when the DC voltage converter includes the reactor heat is generated in the reactor when the charging and discharging of the storage battery is repeated. Then when the temperature of the reactor increases too much the resistivity of the reactor increases and the conversion efficiency of the DC voltage converter is degraded. For this reason the reactor has been air cooled by the contact of the heat sink or the like from the past but in the construction machine it is difficult to sufficiently cool the reactor by using the cooling method.

That is a working machine such as a construction machine or a carrying unloading machine is used in lands under various climates from tropical regions to polar regions and is also used in places where large amounts of sand dust is generated. Accordingly it is desirable that the electrical equipment such as the DC voltage converter is accommodated in the sealed container to be isolated from the external air. However when the DC voltage converter particularly the reactor is accommodated in the sealed container in this manner it is difficult to sufficiently cool the reactor by using the existing air cooling method.

The hybrid type construction machine of the above described embodiment includes the cooling liquid circulating system that cools the reactor of the step up step down converter . Accordingly even when the reactor is accommodated in the sealed casing of the step up step down converter unit the reactor may be effectively cooled and the conversion efficiency of the step up step down converter may be maintained while suppressing an increase in resistivity of the reactor .

Furthermore the hybrid type construction machine of the embodiment includes the cooling liquid circulating system that is provided to cool the reactor of the step up step down converter separately from the cooling liquid circulating system cooling the engine . Accordingly a sufficient cooling performance may be ensured and the cooling liquid may have a low temperature compared to the engine cooling liquid so that the reactor may be effectively cooled. Furthermore even when the engine is stopped the reactor may be continuously cooled as long as the pump motor and the radiator are operated.

Furthermore in the embodiment the cooling liquid circulating system cools not only the reactor but also the electrical generator and the rotation motor . In the invention this method is more appropriate whereby the electrical generator and the rotation motor may also be cooled more effectively. Furthermore in the cooling liquid circulating system of the embodiment the cooling liquid is delivered from the radiator passes the driver unit accommodating the step up step down converter and then passes the electrical generator and the rotation motor . In this manner the step up step down converter having a comparatively low temperature is cooled first and the electrical generator and the rotation motor each having a comparatively high temperature are cooled thereby further improving the cooling efficiency of the cooling liquid circulating system .

Here in the operation of the hybrid type construction machine of the embodiment the current restricting operation with respect to the step up step down converter and the inverter circuits A A and B by using the controller will be described in detail. is a flowchart illustrating a current restricting operation with respect to the step up step down converter and the inverter circuits A A and B by using the controller . Furthermore in are graphs illustrating an example of a temporal change in temperature of the IPM constituting the step up step down converter and the inverter circuits A A and B and are graphs illustrating an example of a temporal change in current flowing to the step up step down converter and the inverter circuits A A and B.

First the controller monitors the temperature detection results from the temperature sensors and while operating the step up step down converter and the inverter circuits A A and B. Then it is determined whether the temperature detection results from the temperature sensors and that is the temperatures of the IPMs and are more than the first threshold value T step S . When the temperatures of the IPMs and are T or less step S No the maximum current value I is set so that the normal operation is not disturbed and the circuits the inverter circuits A A and B and the step up step down converter are driven so as to be not more than the maximum current value I until the timing tin step S shown in . That is in the inverter circuit A I is set as the maximum driving current in the rotation motor . Then in the step up step down converter I is set as the maximum discharging current from the battery . Furthermore the first threshold value T is set to a temperature for example 80 C. lower than the temperature TA for example 100 C. where the overheat protection function of the IPMs and is operated by the temperature sensor .

Furthermore when the temperatures of the IPMs and become more than the first threshold value T step S Yes the controller sets the maximum current value of the circuit any one of the step up step down converter and the inverter circuits A A and B value to I smaller than the maximum current value I in the normal case mentioned above and drives the circuit so as to be not more than the maximum current value the timings tand tin step S shown in . That is in the inverter circuit A the maximum driving current to the rotation motor is decreased from I to I. Then in the step up step down converter the maximum discharging current from the battery is decreased from I to I.

Furthermore when the temperatures of the IPMs and become equal to or less than a third threshold value T 

On the other hand the temperatures of the IPMs and do not become equal to or less than the third threshold value T the controller determines whether the temperatures of the IPMs and become more than the second threshold value T T higher than the first threshold value T while driving the circuit so that the current value does not become more than step S . Then when the temperatures of the IPMs and become more than the second threshold value T step S Yes the controller stops the operation of the circuit any one of the inverter circuits A A and B and the step up step down converter including the IPM or the after the timing tin step S shown in . Furthermore the second threshold value T is set to be lower than the temperature TA where the overheat protection function built in the IPMs and is operated.

In the construction machine the inverter circuit driving or regenerating the working motor or the step up step down converter charging and discharging the battery may use the IPM.

The IPM is configured in a manner such that a driving circuit including a power device such as a power MOSFET or an IGBT Insulated Gate Bipolar Transistor and its own protection function for example an overheat protection function a short circuit protection function an over current protection function and the like protecting the power device are assembled in one package.

In general the IPM stops the operation thereof when an abnormality is detected by the above described own protection function. However since the construction machine is used in lands under various climates from tropical regions to polar regions the overheat protection function of the IPM is frequently operated in regions where the temperature is high and the IPM may be stopped often. For this reason it is not desirable to use the IPM in such a state from the viewpoint of the reliability of the construction machine.

In order to solve this problem in the respective units such as the inverter units to or the step up step down converter unit of the hybrid type construction machine the temperature sensors and are provided at the outside of the IPMs and to detect the temperatures of the IPMs and separately from the temperature sensor built in the IPMs and . Then when the temperature detection result obtained by the temperature sensors and becomes more than a predetermined first threshold value T lower than a temperature TA where the overheat protection function of the IPMs and is operated by the temperature sensor that is a temperature TA where the IPMs and are automatically stopped the controller decreases the amount of current flowing to the IPMs and in order to prevent the IPMs and from being stopped by the overheating thereof. That is when the unit is the inverter unit the maximum driving current with respect to the rotation motor is decreased. Further when the unit is the step up step down converter unit the maximum discharging current from the battery is decreased. Accordingly even in an area or a place having a high temperature the overheat protection function of the IPMs and may be suppressed from being frequently operated and the reliability of the hybrid type construction machine may be improved. In particular as in the embodiment when the inverter units to or the step up step down converter unit form a sealed space the IPMs and are apt to become a high temperature state. Even under this condition the generation of abnormality may be prevented and the work may be continuously performed by decreasing the output of the IPMs and in advance before the overheat protection function of the IPMs and is operated as in the above described configuration.

Furthermore in the embodiment a method has been described which decreases the maximum discharging current from the battery when the unit is the step up step down converter unit but the maximum charging current to the battery may be decreased or the maximum discharging current and the maximum charging current to the battery may both be decreased.

Furthermore as in the embodiment when the temperature detection results obtained by the temperature sensors and become more than the second threshold value T lower than the temperature TA where the overheat protection function of the IPMs and is operated by the temperature sensor and larger than the first threshold value T it is desirable that the controller stops the operation of the inverter circuit A when the unit is the inverter unit and stops the operation of the step up step down converter when the unit is the step up step down converter unit . Accordingly since the operation of the IPMs and may be stopped by reliably detecting the overheat of the IPMs and even when the temperature sensor is broken or the interconnection connecting the temperature sensor and the controller to each other is short circuited the reliability of the hybrid type construction machine may be further improved.

Furthermore as in the embodiment it is desirable that the inverter unit and the step up step down converter unit include the metallic containers and having the heat radiation surfaces thermally coupled to the IPMs and and the temperature sensors and are disposed on the heat radiation surfaces of the metallic containers and . Accordingly the temperatures of the IPMs and may be more precisely detected. In this case as in the embodiment it is desirable that the metallic containers and as the thermal conductive plates are disposed to extend along the up and down direction of the servo control unit and the temperature sensors and are disposed above the IPMs and within the heat radiation surfaces of the metallic containers and . Since the heat radiated from the IPMs and is apt to be transferred upward via the metallic containers and when the temperature sensors and are disposed above the IPMs and the temperatures of the IPMs and may be more precisely detected.

In the hybrid type construction machine the DC power of the battery needs to be converted into the AC power in order to drive the AC motor. Furthermore the AC power needs to be converted into the DC power in order to store the electricity obtained by the regenerative generation in the AC motor into the battery. Accordingly the hybrid type construction machine may include the servo control unit having a plurality of driver units with an inverter circuit converting the DC power into the AC power and vice versa.

As one of the configurations of the servo control unit there is known a method of controlling electricity converting circuits built in a plurality of driver units by using a control unit provided separately from the plurality of driver units. The control unit may include therein a plurality of CPUs respectively corresponding to the plurality of driver units in order to individually control the electricity converting circuit of each driver unit. The CPU has a large heating amount and a strict operational temperature range. For this reason the temperature thereof needs to be controlled within a constant range.

On the other hand in the servo control unit mounted on the construction machine usually used in harsh conditions the control unit needs to be formed in a sealed structure for the purpose of the waterproofing and the dustproofing of the internal circuit such as the CPU. When the control unit is formed in a sealed structure the heat generated inside the control unit is difficult to be radiated to the outside and an increase in temperature of the CPU is difficult to be suppressed. As described above when the plurality of CPUs respectively corresponding to the plurality of driver units is built in the control unit this problem becomes more severe.

In order to solve this problem the control unit having a sealed structure of the hybrid type construction machine includes the cooling pipe . Then the cooling pipe is thermally coupled to the plurality of CPUs to and may cool the plurality of CPUs to by introducing the cooling liquid from the outside of the casing . According to the hybrid type construction machine of the embodiment even in the sealed structure since the plurality of CPUs to may be effectively cooled with this structure an increase in temperature of the plurality of CPUs to may be effectively suppressed.

Furthermore in the embodiment the control unit is placed on the step up step down converter unit and the inverter units to and the plurality of CPUs to inside the control unit is disposed on the cooling pipe . That is the cooling pipe is disposed between the units to and the plurality of CPUs to

Each of the units to is provided with the inverter circuit or the step up step down converter circuit but in general the heating amount of the circuit is greater than that of the CPU or the like. Then as in the embodiment when the control unit is placed on the units to the heat of the inverter circuit is apt to be transferred to the CPUs to inside the control unit . Conversely in the embodiment as described above since the cooling pipe is disposed between the units to and the CPUs to the heat of the inverter circuit is difficult to be transferred to the CPUs to and the CPUs to may be more efficiently cooled.

Furthermore as in the embodiment it is desirable that the control unit has the heat sink which is provided between the CPUs to and the cooling pipe to be thermally coupled to the CPUs to and the cooling pipe . Accordingly the heat generated from the CPUs to is apt to be transferred to the cooling pipe and the CPUs to may be more efficiently cooled.

Furthermore as shown in the cooling pipe has a shape in which one end and the other end of the plurality of pipe portions are alternately connected to each other. It is desirable that each of the plurality of cooling areas to of the heat sink is thermally coupled to two adjacent pipe portions among the plurality of pipe portions and in the CPUs to one CPU is thermally coupled to one cooling area. When the cooling pipe and the CPUs to are disposed to have this correlation the length of the cooling pipe for each CPU may be ensured to be sufficient whereby the CPUs to may be more efficiently cooled.

Furthermore as in the embodiment it is desirable that the thermal conductive sheet having an elastic material is disposed between the CPUs to and the heat sink . Accordingly the heat generated from the CPUs to is apt to be transferred to the heat sink so that the CPUs to may be more efficiently cooled.

Furthermore for example when a plurality of CPUs is mounted on separate substrates and is connected to each other via a cable interconnection there is a concern that the reliability thereof may be degraded due to damage to the cable. However in the embodiment the plurality of CPUs is provided on one control card and is connected to each other by the pattern interconnection formed on the control card . Accordingly the interconnection is less damaged and the reliability of the servo control unit may be improved.

Furthermore the servo control unit of the embodiment includes the inverter units to the step up step down converter unit and the control unit which are integrated with each other. However the servo control unit may not have such a configuration. For example the control unit may be disposed while being separated from the inverter units to and the step up step down converter unit .

Furthermore in the embodiment an example has been described in which the plurality of CPUs to is provided between the control card and the heat sink but the effect of the embodiment may be appropriately obtained even when one CPU is provided.

Furthermore as in the embodiment it is desirable that the hybrid type construction machine includes the cooling liquid circulating system having the radiator . Then in this case it is desirable that at least a part of the cooling liquid of the cooling liquid circulating system is delivered from the radiator and sequentially passes the control unit and any one of the units to and the AC motor . In this manner the control unit having a comparatively low temperature is first cooled the units to each having a comparatively high temperature are cooled and then the AC motors and each having the higher temperature are cooled thereby improving the cooling efficiency of the cooling liquid circulating system cooling the control unit .

The third cooling liquid circulating system is a cooling liquid circulating system which is provided to cool the electrical generator and the rotation motor separately from the first and second cooling liquid circulating systems and A.

The third cooling liquid circulating system includes a pump driven by a pump motor not shown and a radiator . The cooling liquid circulated by the pump radiates heat by the radiator and is sent to the rotation motor . As described in in the rotation motor the cooling liquid flows to the cooling liquid passage cools the electrical generator and the speed reducer in this order and then is returned to the pump . Furthermore the radiator is an example of a third heat exchanger in the invention.

Furthermore as shown in it is desirable that the second and third cooling liquid circulating systems A and are provided with a common auxiliary tank which supplements the cooling liquid.

As in the example the cooling liquid circulating system may be provided to cool the electrical generator and the rotation motor separately from the first and second cooling liquid circulating systems and A. In this manner when the driver units to particularly the reactor of the servo control unit having a comparatively low temperature and the electrical generator and the rotation motor each having a comparatively high temperature are independently cooled the cooling efficiency may be further improved.

Next a modified example of the DC bus voltage lowering mode of the above described embodiment will be described. is a flowchart illustrating an operation of the hybrid type construction machine in the DC bus voltage lowering mode according to a modified example. First the ignition key is operated by the operator to stop the operation of the hybrid type construction machine step S . Furthermore even in the modified example the controller starts the DC bus voltage lowering mode whenever the operation of the hybrid type construction machine is stopped. That is the controller stops the driving of the inverter circuits A A and B when receiving the operation of the key step S . Accordingly the supply of the electricity to the electrical generator the rotation motor and the lifting magnet is stopped.

Next the controller compares the voltage value of the DC bus detected by the voltage sensor shown in with the voltage across both ends of the battery step S . Then when the voltage value of the DC bus is greater than the voltage across both ends of the battery step S Yes the target voltage of the DC bus in the step up step down converter is set to be equal to the voltage across both ends of the battery step S and the step up step down converter is continuously driven step S . Then the step up step down converter is driven to charge the battery while the voltage value of the DC bus is greater than the voltage across both ends of the battery step S Yes .

When the voltage value of the DC bus becomes equal to or less than a voltage across both ends of the battery step S No or step S No the controller stops the driving of the step up step down converter step S . Then the controller allows the switches E and F refer to between the step up step down converter and the battery to be in a disconnection state step S . Accordingly the DC bus and the battery are electrically separated from each other. Then the controller instructs the ECU or the like of the engine to stop the engine step S .

At this time the inverter circuit C continuously drives the pump motor as the cooling motor and the cooling liquid continuously circulates inside the cooling liquid circulating system by the pump motor . The controller continuously operates the pump motor by continuously driving the inverter circuit C step S . The inverter circuit C is continuously driven until the voltage of the DC bus detected by the voltage sensor becomes a predetermined threshold value or less step S No . Furthermore the appropriate value of the predetermined threshold value is the same as that of the above described embodiment.

Then when the voltage of the DC bus becomes a predetermined threshold value or less step S Yes the controller stops the driving of the inverter circuit C step S . Accordingly the operation of the pump motor is stopped so that the DC bus voltage lowering mode is finished and the operation of the hybrid type construction machine is completely stopped.

In the modified example as in the above described embodiment in the DC bus voltage lowering mode the controller consumes the voltage of the DC bus by driving the pump motor by the voltage of the DC bus . Accordingly it is not necessary to newly provide a component such as a resistor or a switch only for the DC bus voltage lowering mode and the voltage of the DC bus may be decreased with a configuration suppressing a degradation in reliability. Furthermore since the pump motor does not apply a driving force to a movable portion or a working component the voltage of the DC bus may be safely decreased.

Furthermore as in the modified example when the voltage of the DC bus is higher than the voltage across both ends of the battery when starting the DC bus voltage lowering mode it is desirable that the step up step down converter is driven to charge the battery before the switches E and F enter a disconnection state. Accordingly at least a small amount of the voltage of the DC bus may be stored in the battery and energy efficiency may be further improved.

Another modified example of the DC bus voltage lowering mode of the above described embodiment will be described. is a flowchart illustrating an operation of the hybrid type construction machine in the DC bus voltage lowering mode according to another modified example. In the modified example when the input related to the start of the DC bus voltage lowering mode is performed by the operator via the operation panel inside the operation room refer to while the operation of the hybrid type construction machine is stopped the controller starts the DC bus voltage lowering mode.

First the ignition key is operated by the operator so that the electricity is supplied to the hybrid type construction machine step S . Furthermore at this time the engine is stopped and the inverter circuits A and A to C are stopped. Then the controller receives an input related to the start of the DC bus voltage lowering mode from the operator step S and starts the driving of the inverter circuit C step S . That is the inverter circuit C starts the driving of the pump motor as the cooling motor and the cooling liquid starts to circulate inside the cooling liquid circulating system by the pump motor . The controller continuously operate the pump motor by continuously driving the inverter circuit C step S and the inverter circuit C is continuously driven until the voltage of the DC bus detected by the voltage sensor becomes a predetermined threshold value or less step S No . Furthermore the appropriate value of the predetermined threshold value is the same as that of the above described embodiment.

Then when the voltage of the DC bus becomes a predetermined threshold value or less step S Yes the controller stops the driving of the inverter circuit C step S . Accordingly the operation of the pump motor is stopped so that the DC bus voltage lowering mode is finished.

In the modified example as in the above described embodiment in the DC bus voltage lowering mode the controller consumes the voltage of the DC bus by driving the pump motor by the voltage of the DC bus . Accordingly it is not necessary to newly provide a component such as a resistor or a switch for only the DC bus voltage lowering mode and the voltage of the DC bus may be decreased with a configuration suppressing a degradation in reliability. Furthermore since the pump motor does not apply a driving force to a movable portion or a working component the voltage of the DC bus may be safely decreased.

Furthermore as in the modified example when the input is generated from the operator while the operation of the hybrid type construction machine is stopped the controller may start the DC bus voltage lowering mode. Accordingly the voltage of the DC bus may be decreased in accordance with the necessity of the operator.

Here in the above described embodiment a case has been described in which a heating unit such as the servo control unit the rotation motor the electrical generator and the speed reducer are all cooled after the key is turned off but in the working machine according to the invention the cooling motor may cool at least the control unit . Since the control unit has a sealed structure the electronic component disposed inside the control unit is not cooled by the external air. For this reason when the circulation of the cooling liquid in the control unit is stopped immediately after the key is turned off the heat may not be taken from the electronic component inside the control unit having a high temperature by the operation via the heat sink and the temperature of the electronic component inside the control unit or the temperature of the air inside the casing increases. Conversely when the circulation of the cooling liquid of the control unit is continued after the key is turned off the lifespan of the electronic component inside the control unit may be extended.

An example will be described in which the invention is applied to another working machine. is a diagram illustrating an external shape of a forklift A as the working machine. As shown in the forklift A is a so called counter type forklift of which the vehicle body becomes balanced by installing a weight at the rear of the vehicle body.

The forklift A includes a driver seat on which the operator sits a fork wheels and and the like. The fork is used to elevate baggage and the fork is provided at the front side of the driver seat . Two wheels are provided in front of the driver seat and two wheels are provided to the rear of the driver seat. The wheels disposed to the rear of the driver seat are steering wheels. On the other hand the wheels disposed in front of the driver seat are driving wheels.

Furthermore the forklift A includes a cooling liquid circulating system which cools the inverter circuits and and the step up step down converter of the electrical storage means . That is the forklift A includes a pump which circulates a cooling liquid a pump motor a cooling motor driving the pump and an inverter circuit connected between the pump motor and the electrical storage means . The inverter circuit is driven by a controller not shown in the same manner as the inverter circuits and .

Then the controller includes a DC bus voltage lowering mode for decreasing the voltage of the DC bus of the electrical storage means . Then in the DC bus voltage lowering mode the inverter circuits and are stopped and the inverter circuit is driven to consume the electricity in the pump motor thereby decreasing the voltage of the DC bus.

Furthermore the forklift A includes the driver seat on which the operator sits the fork the wheels and and the like. The fork is used to elevate baggage and the fork is provided at the front side of the driver seat . Two wheels are provided in front of the driver seat and two wheels are provided to the rear of the driver seat. The wheels disposed to the rear of the driver seat are steering wheels. On the other hand the wheels disposed in front of the driver seat are driving wheels.

Furthermore is a diagram illustrating an external shape of a bulldozer B as the working machine. The bulldozer B includes a driver seat on which the operator sits a lift cylinder a blade a tilt cylinder a crawler a left driving wheel and a right driving wheel not shown and the like.

The main pump and a pilot pump are connected to the output shaft of the transmission and a control valve is connected to the main pump via a high pressure hydraulic line . The control valve is a device which controls the hydraulic system in the bulldozer B. The lift cylinder and the tilt cylinder are connected to the control valve via the high pressure hydraulic line and the control valve controls the hydraulic pressure supplied thereto in accordance with the operator s input.

The output terminal of the inverter circuit A is connected to the electrical terminal of the electrical generator . An electrical storage means an electrical storage unit is connected to the input terminal of the inverter circuit A. The configuration of the electrical storage means is the same as that of the electrical storage means of the above described embodiment. Furthermore the operation of the inverter circuit A is the same as that of the inverter circuit A of the above described embodiment.

Two inverter circuits A are connected to the electrical storage means . A running motor an AC motor as a working motor is connected to one end of each of the inverter circuit A and the other end of the inverter circuit A is connected to the electrical storage means . The running motor is a power source for the left driving wheel and the right driving wheel . A speed reducer is connected to the rotary shaft A of the running motor . The speed reducer is a speed reducer which decreases the rotation speed of the rotary shaft A of the running motor and mechanically transfers the rotation to the left driving wheel and the right driving wheel . Furthermore the operation of the running motor is the same as that of the above described rotation motor .

The bulldozer B includes a cooling liquid circulating system for the electrical system. The cooling liquid circulating system includes a pump which circulates the cooling liquid supplied to the step up step down converter and the inverter circuits A and A and a pump motor which drives the pump . The pump motor is connected to the electrical storage means via an inverter circuit C. The inverter circuit C supplies electricity necessary for the pump motor on the basis of the instruction from the controller . The cooling liquid circulating system cools the inverter circuits A and A and the controller . Furthermore the cooling liquid circulating system cools the electrical generator the transmission and the running motor .

An operation device is connected to the pilot pump via a pilot line . The operation device is an operation device which is used to operate the running motor the lift cylinder and the tilt cylinder and is operated by the operator. The control valve is connected to the operation device via a hydraulic line and a pressure sensor is connected thereto via a hydraulic line . The operation device converts a hydraulic pressure a primary hydraulic pressure supplied via the pilot line into a hydraulic pressure a secondary hydraulic pressure in accordance with an amount operated by the operator and outputs the converted hydraulic pressure. The secondary hydraulic pressure output from the operation device is supplied to the control valve via the hydraulic line and is detected by the pressure sensor .

The configuration and the function of a controller a control unit are the same as those of the above described controller . Furthermore the configurations of the electrical storage means the inverter unit having the inverter circuits A and A and the control unit having the controller may be the same as those of the electrical storage means the inverter units to and the control unit .

Then the controller has a DC bus voltage lowering mode for decreasing the voltage of the DC bus of the electrical storage means . Then in the DC bus voltage lowering mode the inverter circuits A and A are stopped and the inverter circuit C is driven to consume the electricity in the pump motor thereby decreasing the voltage of the DC bus.

The working machine according to the invention is not limited to the above described embodiment but may be modified into various forms. For example in the above described embodiment the lifting magnet vehicle and the forklift are exemplified as the working machine but the invention may be applied to any working machine for example an excavator a wheel loader or a crane .

Since an electrical generator an AC motor for rotation and a driving control device an inverter or the like controlling the driving of the devices generate heat due to the electricity consumed by the operation thereof the hybrid type construction machine includes a cooling mechanism which cools the devices. Furthermore in order to prevent burnout caused by the abnormal temperature of the device the driving control device or the like has a configuration in which the operation thereof is stopped when the temperature becomes a threshold value or greater. On the other hand in the construction site where the construction machine is used it is desirable that the continuous operation is possible in order to improve work efficiency. When the driving control device or the like is stopped due to an increase in temperature the continuous operation is not possible and work efficiency is degraded. Hereinafter a hybrid type construction machine will be described which may improve work efficiency by realizing a continuous operation.

As shown in the excavator includes an electrical generator and a speed reducer and the rotary shafts of the engine and the electrical generator are all connected to the input shaft of the speed reducer so that the rotary shafts are connected to each other. When the load of the engine is large the electrical generator assists the driving force of the engine by using its own driving force so that the driving force of the electrical generator is transferred to a main pump via the output shaft of the speed reducer . On the other hand when the load of the engine is small the driving force of the engine is transferred to the electrical generator via the speed reducer so that the electrical generator generates electricity. The electrical generator is configured as for example an IPM Interior Permanent Magnetic motor in which a magnet is embedded in a rotor. The driving and the generation of electricity of the electrical generator are switched by a controller a control unit controlling the driving of the electrical system of the excavator in accordance with the load or the like of the engine .

The main pump and the pilot pump are connected to the output shaft of the speed reducer and a control valve is connected to the main pump via a high pressure hydraulic line . The control valve is a device that controls the hydraulic system of the excavator . The boom cylinder the arm cylinder and the bucket cylinder are connected to the control valve via the high pressure hydraulic line in addition to hydraulic motors A and B driving the running mechanism shown in and the control valve controls the hydraulic pressure supplied thereto in accordance with the operator s input.

An output terminal of an inverter A a second driving control means is connected to the electrical terminal of the electrical generator . An electrical storage means an electrical storage unit is connected to the input terminal of the inverter A. An electrical storage means includes for example a battery which is a storage battery a step up step down converter which controls the charging and discharging of the battery and a DC bus not shown which includes positive and negative DC interconnections. Here the DC bus forms a constant voltage storage unit and the battery forms a variable voltage storage unit. That is the input terminal of the inverter A is connected to the input terminal of the step up step down converter via the DC bus. The battery is connected to the output terminal of the step up step down converter.

The inverter A controls the operation of the electrical generator on the basis of the instruction from the controller . That is when the inverter A performs a power running operation of the electrical generator the necessary amount of electricity is supplied from the battery and the step up step down converter to the electrical generator via the DC bus. Furthermore when the regenerative operation of the electrical generator is performed the electricity generated by the electrical generator is charged to the battery via the DC bus and the step up step down converter. Furthermore the step up operation and the step down operation of the step up step down converter are switched by the controller on the basis of the DC bus voltage value the battery voltage value and the battery current value. Accordingly the DC bus may accumulate the electricity to a predetermined constant voltage value.

A boom regenerating generator is connected to the electrical storage means via an inverter B. A hydraulic motor is connected to the boom cylinder and the rotary shaft of the boom regenerating generator is driven by the hydraulic motor . The boom regenerating generator is an electrical working component which converts positional energy into electrical energy when the boom is lifted down by the action of gravity.

The hydraulic motor is configured to be rotated by oil discharged from the boom cylinder when the boom is lifted down and is provided to convert energy when the boom is lifted down by the gravity into a rotational force. The hydraulic motor is provided in a hydraulic pipe A between the control valve and the boom cylinder . The electricity generated from the boom regenerating generator is supplied to the electrical storage means via the inverter B as regenerative energy.

Furthermore a rotation motor as a working motor is connected to the electrical storage means via an inverter C a first driving control means . The rotation motor is a power source of the rotation mechanism rotating the rotation body . A resolver a mechanical brake and a rotation speed reducer are connected to a rotary shaft A of the rotation motor .

A power running operation of the rotation motor is performed the rotation force generated by the rotation driving force of the rotation motor is amplified by the rotation speed reducer and the rotation body rotates while being controlled to be accelerated and decelerated. Furthermore the rpm is increased at the rotation speed reducer by the inertia rotation of the rotation body and the rotation is transferred to the rotation motor thereby generating regenerative electricity. The rotation motor is AC driven by the inverter C on the basis of the PWM Pulse Width Modulation control signal. As the rotation motor for example an IPM motor embedded with a magnet may be appropriately used.

The resolver is a sensor which detects the rotation position and the rotation angle of the rotary shaft A of the rotation motor and detects the rotation angle and the rotation direction of the rotary shaft A by being mechanically connected to the rotation motor . Since the resolver detects the rotation angle of the rotary shaft A the rotation angle and the rotation direction of the rotation mechanism are derived. The mechanical brake is a brake device which generates a mechanical brake force and mechanically stops the rotary shaft A of the rotation motor on the basis of the instruction from the controller . The rotation speed reducer is a speed reducer which decreases the rotation speed of the rotary shaft A of the rotation motor and mechanically transfers the decreased rotation speed to the rotation mechanism .

An operation device an operation means is connected to the pilot pump via a pilot line . The operation device is an operation device which is used to operate the rotation motor the running mechanism the boom the arm and the bucket and is operated by the operator. The control valve is connected to the operation device via a hydraulic line and a pressure sensor is connected thereto via a hydraulic line . The operation device converts a hydraulic pressure a primary hydraulic pressure supplied via the pilot line into a hydraulic pressure a secondary hydraulic pressure in accordance with an amount operated by the operator and then outputs the converted hydraulic pressure. The secondary hydraulic pressure output from the operation device is supplied to the control valve via the hydraulic line and is detected by the pressure sensor .

When an operation for rotating the rotation mechanism is input to the operation device the pressure sensor detects the operation amount as a change in hydraulic pressure inside the hydraulic line . The pressure sensor outputs an electrical signal representing the hydraulic pressure inside the hydraulic line . The electrical signal is input to the controller and is used to control the driving of the rotation motor .

The controller includes a calculation processing device having a CPU Central Processing Unit and an internal memory and is realized by executing the driving control program stored in the internal memory via the CPU. The controller controls the driving of the inverters A B and C and the electrical storage means when receiving an operation input from various sensors and the operation device .

Furthermore the controller of the embodiment has a DC bus voltage lowering mode a busbar voltage lowering mode for decreasing the voltage of the DC bus specifically consuming the electrical charge stored in a smoothing capacitor or the like connected to the DC bus when maintenance of the excavator is performed. In the DC bus voltage lowering mode the controller stops the operation of all the inverter circuits A B and C and the step up step down converter and decreases the voltage of the DC bus by driving another inverter circuit to consume the electricity in the pump motor after a switch provided between the step up step down converter and the battery enters a disconnection state. The DC bus voltage lowering mode is started when the operation of the excavator is stopped specifically when the engine is about to stop by the operator operating the key or an input related to the start of the DC bus voltage lowering mode is performed by the operator via the operation panel inside the operation room

Next the inverter will be described by referring to . is a schematic configuration diagram illustrating a configuration of the inverter .

The inverter is controlled by the PWM signal from the controller and generates and outputs a motor driving signal for driving the motor such as the rotation motor . The inverter includes therein an IPM obtained by assembling a transistor constituting the circuit of the inverter. The IPM is equipped with various sensors such as a temperature sensor. The various sensors detect events such as over current decrease in control power supply voltage short circuiting and abnormal temperature and outputs an IPM error signal when detecting these events. Here an event of the abnormal temperature indicates that the temperature of the inverter becomes a predetermined operation stop temperature TIh or greater. The operation stop temperature is set to for example 100 C. When the IPM detects the IPM error signal the IPM stops the supply of the current for driving the motor as the driving target in order to prevent burnout of the motor as the driving target or the inverter . In this case the operation of the excavator is stopped and the continuous operation is stopped.

Next the cooling device provided in the excavator will be described by referring to . is a diagram illustrating an example of the pipe for the cooling water in the cooling device.

As shown in the cooling device includes a tank a pump a pump motor a radiator and a water temperature meter a temperature detection means . The cooling water refrigerant in the cooling device is stored in the tank and is sent to the radiator by the pump driven by the pump motor . The cooling water cooled by the radiator is sent to the inverters A B C the step up step down converter and the battery via the pipe by the controller . The cooling water is further returned to the tank via the rotation motor the electrical generator and the speed reducer . The water temperature meter detects the temperature of the cooling water sent from the radiator and sends information on the detected temperature to the controller .

Furthermore the pipe of the cooling water toward the controller is directly connected to the radiator . Accordingly since the cooling performance with respect to the CPU inside the controller may be ensured the reliability of the excavator is ensured. In the pipe is connected so that the cooling water used to cool the controller is used to cool the inverters A to C the step up step down converter and the like. However the pipe from the radiator may be connected in parallel to the controller the inverters A to C the step up step down converter and the like.

Next the controller will be described by referring to . is a schematic configuration diagram illustrating a functional configuration of the controller .

As shown in the controller includes an overall control unit D and inverter control units A B and C. The overall control unit D is a unit that performs an overall control of the respective components provided in the excavator and sends out a variety of information on a speed instruction and a torque limit value to the inverter control units A B and C. Furthermore the overall control unit D acquires information on the temperature of the cooling water sent from the water temperature meter .

The torque limit value sent from the overall control unit D to the inverter control units A B and C is used to set the upper limit value of the current supplied from the inverters A B and C to the electrical generator the boom regenerating generator and the rotation motor . That is when the temperature T of the cooling water obtained from the water temperature meter is a predetermined output suppressing temperature Tth or more the overall control unit D controls the inverters A B and C so that the upper limit value of the current supplied to the electrical generator the boom regenerating generator and the rotation motor becomes smaller than that of the case where the temperature T of the cooling water is lower than the output suppressing temperature Tth. Here since the cooling water needs to maintain the cooling performance with respect to the CPU inside the controller the output suppressing temperature Tth is set to be lower than the operation stop temperature TIh of the inverter. Specifically the output suppressing temperature Tth is set to be lower than the operation stop temperature as a reference temperature for the abnormal temperature as one of the events outputting the IPM error signal in the IPM of the inverter . Accordingly the controller executes a control in which the upper limit value of the current to be supplied decreases before the inverters A B and C start the operation of the mechanism stopping the supply of the current to the electrical generator the boom regenerating generator and the rotation motor . Accordingly the operation stop caused by the abnormal temperatures of the electrical generator the boom regenerating generator and the rotation motor may be prevented and the continuous operation of the excavator may be realized. Here the detailed control executed by the controller will be described later.

The inverter control units A B and C are units that respectively control the inverters A B and C. Here the inverter control units A to C will be described by referring to . is a block diagram illustrating a configuration of the inverter control unit C. Furthermore the inverter control units A and B have the same configurations as that of the inverter control unit C.

As shown in the inverter control unit C includes a subtractor a PI control unit a torque restricting unit a subtractor a PI control unit a current converting unit a rotation operation detection unit and a PWM signal generating unit .

The subtractor outputs a deviation by subtracting a rotation speed value detected by the rotation operation detection unit from a rotation speed instruction value of a rotation speed of a working component driven by the rotation motor . The speed instruction value of the rotation speed is for example an instruction value in accordance with the operation amount of the operation device refer to and is sent from the overall control unit D of the controller .

The resolver detects a change in rotation position of the rotation motor . The rotation operation detection unit calculates a rotation speed value on the basis of a change in rotation position of the rotation motor and outputs the rotation speed value to the subtractor .

The PI control unit executes a PI control of decreasing a deviation so that the rotation speed of the rotation motor becomes closer to the speed instruction value on the basis of the deviation output from the subtractor and generates a torque current instruction value for the control. The PI control unit outputs the torque current instruction value to the torque restricting unit .

The torque restricting unit restricts the torque current instruction value to be within a predetermined torque limit value a torque upper limit value so that the torque generated by the rotation motor on the basis of the torque current instruction value output from the PI control unit becomes an allowable toque value or less of the rotation motor . The torque limit value is sent from the overall control unit D and the torque restricting unit acquires the sent torque limit value. In the inverter control unit C controlling the inverter C in the normal case for example the acceleration torque limit value XU is set to 150 of the rated torque in the rotation motor as the driving target and the deceleration torque limit value XD is set to 250 of the rated torque.

Here the torque limit value setting process executed by the overall control unit D of the controller will be described by referring to the flowchart of .

In step S the overall control unit D determines whether the temperature T of the cooling water acquired from the water temperature meter is greater than a predetermined output suppressing temperature Tth. The output suppressing temperature Tth is set to for example 60 C. When the temperature T of the cooling water is greater than the predetermined output suppressing temperature Tth the process proceeds to step S. When the temperature T of the cooling water is not greater than the predetermined output suppressing temperature Tth the determination process of step S is repeated.

In step S the overall control unit D changes the torque limit value for the torque restricting unit of the inverter control unit from the acceleration torque limit value XU and the deceleration torque limit value XD to the acceleration suppressing torque limit value XU and the deceleration suppressing torque limit value XD . For example the acceleration suppressing torque limit value XU is set to 100 of the rated torque in the rotation motor and the deceleration suppressing torque limit value XD is set to 150 in the rotation motor . Accordingly the inverter C may be controlled so that the upper limit value of the current supplied to the rotation motor decreases. Furthermore as the rated torque used as the setting reference a value in accordance with the driving targets such as the electrical generator the boom regenerating generator and the rotation motor is used.

In step S the overall control unit D determines whether the temperature T of the cooling water acquired from the water temperature meter returns to be the output suppressing temperature Tth or less. When the temperature T of the cooling water becomes the output suppressing temperature Tth or less the process proceeds to step S. When the temperature T of the cooling water is not the output suppressing temperature Tth or less the determination process of step S is repeated. Regarding the torque limit value the acceleration suppressing torque limit value XU and the deceleration suppressing torque limit value XD are set.

In step S the overall control unit D returns the torque limit value for the torque restricting unit from the acceleration suppressing torque limit value XU and the deceleration suppressing torque limit value XD to the acceleration torque limit value XU and the deceleration torque limit value XD.

Here referring to again the subtractor outputs a deviation by subtracting the output value obtained by the current converting unit from the torque current instruction value output from the torque restricting unit .

The current converting unit detects the current value of the motor driving signal of the rotation motor converts the current value of the detected motor driving signal into a value corresponding to the torque current instruction value and outputs the converted value to the subtractor .

The PI control unit acquires the deviation output from the subtractor executes a PI control of decreasing the deviation and generates a driving instruction for driving the inverter C. The PI control unit outputs the driving instruction to the PWM signal generating unit .

The PWM signal generating unit generates a PWM signal for controlling the switching of the transistor of the inverter C on the basis of the driving instruction from the PI control unit and outputs the PWM signal to the inverter C.

Next illustrates the rotation speed of the rotation body and the rotation speed of the rotation motor when the torque limit value is set by the overall control unit D of the controller . is a graph illustrating a state of a torque changing with time by the operation is a graph illustrating a rotation speed of the rotation body and is a graph illustrating a rotation speed of the rotation motor . In the graphs the normal case is depicted by the solid line and the case of changing the torque limit value is depicted by the dashed line.

As shown in in the normal case the rotation of the rotation body is accelerated at the torque of 150 of the rated torque of the rotation motor at the timings t0 to t1. Conversely when the torque limit value is changed the rotation of the rotation body is accelerated at the torque of 100 of the rated torque at the timings t0 to t2. When the torque limit value is changed the acceleration becomes less than that of the normal case. Furthermore when the torque limit value is changed the rotation speed obtained after the acceleration is slower than that of the normal case to be about 60 of the normal case.

When the deceleration operation is performed from the timing t3 in the normal case the rotation of the rotation body is decelerated at the torque of 250 of the rated torque of the rotation motor at the timings t3 to t4. On the other hand when the torque limit value is changed the rotation of the rotation body is decelerated at the torque of 150 of the rated torque at the timings t3 to t5. When the torque limit value is changed the acceleration becomes smaller than that of the normal case. Furthermore when the torque limit value is changed it takes much more time to stop the rotation compared to the normal case.

Furthermore as shown in since the rpm of the engine is constant the rotation speed of the rotation motor becomes constant both in the case where the torque limit value is changed and in the normal case. For this reason the torque changes with the state of the load with respect to the rotation motor and a current is supplied from the inverter C to the rotation motor so as to correspond to the changing torque. Accordingly when the torque limit value is set the upper limit of the current supplied to the rotation motor may be controlled.

As described above in the excavator of the embodiment when the temperature of the cooling water cooling the inverter becomes the output suppressing temperature Tth or more since the upper limit value of the current supplied to the AC motor such as the rotation motor is small an increase in temperature of the inverter is suppressed. Since the output suppressing temperature Tth is lower than the operation stop temperature TIh of the IPM the controller executes a control of decreasing the upper limit value of the current supplied from the inverter to the AC motor before the inverter starts an operation of a mechanism stopping the supply of the current to the AC motor. In this manner when the detection value of the temperature sensor inside the inverter A becomes the operation stop temperature TIh or more the machine of the excavator may be stopped. For this reason the machine may not be immediately stopped even when the temperature of the cooling water increases. Accordingly a stop caused by the abnormal temperature of the inverter is prevented and the continuous operation of the excavator is realized.

Here the DC bus voltage lowering mode of the controller will be described further. As described above the DC bus voltage lowering mode indicates an operation mode for decreasing the voltage of the DC bus while the operation of the excavator is stopped. Then in this mode the inverter circuits A B and C and the step up step down converter are all stopped the switch such as the switches E and F of provided between the step up step down converter and the battery enters a disconnection state and the inverter circuit is driven to consume the electricity in the pump motor which is the same as the pump motor of thereby decreasing the voltage of the DC bus.

At this time the inverter circuit continuously drives the pump motor as the cooling motor and the cooling liquid continuously circulates inside the cooling liquid circulating system by the pump motor. The controller continuously operates the pump motor by continuously driving the inverter circuit step S . The inverter circuit is continuously driven until the voltage of the DC bus detected by the voltage sensor becomes a predetermined threshold value or less step S No . Furthermore it is appropriate that the predetermined threshold value is for example 25 V which is considered to be safe even when a human body is conspicuously wet or a part of a human body contacts a metallic electrical equipment or structure Japan Electric Association Guide Second Type .

Then when the voltage of the DC bus becomes a predetermined threshold value or less step S Yes the controller stops the driving of the inverter circuit step S . Accordingly the operation of the pump motor is stopped so that the DC bus voltage lowering mode is finished and the operation of the excavator is completely stopped.

As described above when the excavator decreases the voltage of the DC bus in accordance with the necessity of the maintenance the voltage of the DC bus is consumed in a manner such that the controller drives the pump motor driving the pump by using the voltage of the DC bus. Originally the pump is mounted on the excavator in order to cool the inverter unit or the step up step down converter unit. For this reason according to this method it is not necessary to newly provide a component such as a resistor or a switch only for the DC bus voltage lowering mode. Therefore according to the excavator of the embodiment the voltage of the DC bus may be decreased with a configuration suppressing a degradation in reliability.

Furthermore the pump motor is different from for example the electrical generator driving the hydraulic pump or the working motor such as the rotation motor driving the working component such as the rotation body . The pump motor does not apply a driving force to the movable portion or the working component but only circulates the cooling liquid inside the pipe even when the pump motor is driven. Therefore according to the excavator of the embodiment since the voltage of the DC bus may be decreased without applying a driving force to the working component or the like the voltage of the DC bus may be safely decreased.

Furthermore in the above described embodiment the excavator is exemplified as an example of the working machine according to the invention but another example of the working machine of the invention may include a lifting magnet vehicle a wheel loader a crane or the like.

Generally in the hybrid type construction machine the DC power of the battery is converted into the AC power in order to drive the AC motor and the AC power is converted into the DC power in order to charge the electricity regenerated from the AC motor to the battery. For this reason at least one inverter circuit needs to be provided. Furthermore the step up step down converter needs to be provided in order to control the charging and discharging of the battery. Then in order to efficiently perform the assisting operation or the electricity generation operation in accordance with the amount of the electricity stored in the battery a servo control system may be provided to generally control the inverter circuit and the step up step down converter circuit.

However the construction machine may be used in harsh working conditions. Accordingly the servo control system mounted on the construction machine requires a high level of reliability against vibration or impact. In particular since the consumption electricity of the AC motor is comparatively large in the construction machine it is necessary to increase the output of the power transistor or the capacity of the capacitor mounted on the servo control system. Also since the servo control system increases in size and weight it is necessary to have sufficient structural strength in order to ensure vibration resistance or impact resistance.

On the other hand in the construction machine used in harsh conditions a high maintenance property is needed. That is when abnormality is generated in a certain inverter circuit it is difficult to inspect and repair the inverter circuit on site. For this reason it is desirable that the inverter circuit is carried to another place for the repair thereof. However as described above in the device having large consumption electricity of the AC motor the servo control system increases in size and weight and it is difficult to carry the servo control system.

Hereinafter a hybrid type construction machine will be described which obtains both vibration resistance or impact resistance and high maintenance property in a servo control system driving a plurality of AC motors using electricity of a storage battery.

Furthermore the lifting magnet vehicle includes a servo control unit . The servo control unit controls an AC motor driving a working component such as the rotation mechanism or the lifting magnet or an electrical generator assisting the engine and a charging and discharging operation of an electrical storage device a battery . The servo control unit includes an inverter unit driving an AC motor or an electrical generator by converting DC power into AC power a plurality of driver units such as a step up step down converter unit controlling a charging and discharging operation of the battery and a control unit controlling the plurality of driver units.

As shown in the lifting magnet vehicle includes an electrical generator and a speed reducer and the rotary shafts of the engine and the electrical generator are both connected to the input shaft of the speed reducer so that the rotary shafts are connected to each other. When the load of the engine is large the electrical generator assists the driving force of the engine by driving the engine as the working component so that the driving force of the electrical generator is transferred to a main pump via the output shaft of the speed reducer . On the other hand when the load of the engine is small the driving force of the engine is transferred to the electrical generator via the speed reducer so that electricity is generated by the electrical generator . The electrical generator is configured as for example an IPM Interior Permanent Magnetic motor in which a magnet is embedded in a rotor. The driving and the generation of electricity of the electrical generator are switched by a controller controlling the driving of the electrical system in the lifting magnet vehicle in accordance with the load or the like of the engine .

The main pump and a pilot pump are connected to the output shaft of the speed reducer and a control valve is connected to the main pump via a high pressure hydraulic line . The control valve is a device that controls the hydraulic system of the lifting magnet vehicle . The boom cylinder the arm cylinder and the bucket cylinder are connected to the control valve via the high pressure hydraulic line in addition to hydraulic motors and driving the running mechanism shown in and the control valve controls the hydraulic pressure supplied thereto in accordance with the operation input from the operator.

An output terminal of the inverter circuit A is connected to the electrical terminal of the electrical generator . An electrical storage means is connected to the input terminal of the inverter circuit A. As shown in the electrical storage means includes a DC bus which is a DC busbar a step up step down converter a DC voltage converter and a battery . That is the input terminal of the inverter circuit A is connected to the input terminal of the step up step down converter via the DC bus . The battery as a storage battery is connected to the output terminal of the step up step down converter . The battery is configured as for example a capacitor type storage battery. As an example of the magnitude of the battery capacitors having a voltage of 2.5 V and a capacity of 2400 F may be connected in series to each other that is a voltage across both ends is 360 V .

The inverter circuit A controls the operation of the electrical generator on the basis of the instruction from the controller . That is when the inverter circuit A performs a power running operation of the electrical generator the necessary amount of electricity is supplied from the battery and the step up step down converter to the electrical generator via the DC bus . Furthermore when the regenerative operation of the electrical generator is performed the electricity generated by the electrical generator is charged to the battery via the DC bus and the step up step down converter . Furthermore the step up operation and the step down operation of the step up step down converter are switched by the controller on the basis of the DC bus voltage value the battery voltage value and the battery current value. Accordingly the DC bus may be maintained to be charged to a predetermined constant voltage value.

The lifting magnet is connected to the DC bus of the electrical storage means via an inverter circuit B. The lifting magnet includes an electromagnet which generates a magnetic force magnetically adsorbing a metallic substance and electricity is supplied from the DC bus via the inverter circuit B. When the electromagnet enters an on state on the basis of the command from the controller the inverter circuit B supplies the electricity necessary for the lifting magnet from the DC bus . Furthermore when the electromagnet enters an off state the regenerated electricity is supplied to the DC bus .

Furthermore the inverter circuit A is connected to the electrical storage means . A rotation motor an AC motor as a working motor is connected to one end of the inverter circuit A and the other end of the inverter circuit A is connected to the DC bus of the electrical storage means . The rotation motor is a power source for the rotation mechanism that rotates the rotation body . A resolver a mechanical brake and a rotation speed reducer are connected to a rotary shaft A of a rotation motor .

When a power running operation of the rotation motor is performed the rotation force generated by the rotation driving force of the rotation motor is amplified by the rotation speed reducer and the rotation body rotates while being controlled to be accelerated and decelerated. Furthermore the rpm is increased at the rotation speed reducer by the inertia rotation of the rotation body and the rotation is transferred to the rotation motor thereby generating regenerative electricity. The rotation motor is AC driven by the inverter circuit A on the basis of the PWM Pulse Width Modulation control signal. As the rotation motor for example an IPM motor embedded with a magnet may be appropriately used.

The resolver is a sensor which detects the rotation position and the rotation angle of the rotary shaft A of the rotation motor and detects the rotation angle and the rotation direction of the rotary shaft A by being mechanically connected to the rotation motor . Since the resolver detects the rotation angle of the rotary shaft A the rotation angle and the rotation direction of the rotation mechanism. are derived. The mechanical brake is a brake device which generates a mechanical brake force and mechanically stops the rotary shaft A of the rotation motor on the basis of the instruction from the controller . The rotation speed reducer is a speed reducer which decreases the rotation speed of the rotary shaft A of the rotation motor and mechanically transfers the decreased rotation speed to the rotation mechanism .

Furthermore since the electrical generator the rotation motor and the lifting magnet are connected to the DC bus via the inverter circuits A A and B the electricity generated by the electrical generator may be directly supplied to the lifting magnet or the rotation motor the electricity regenerated by the lifting magnet may be supplied to the electrical generator or the rotation motor or the electricity regenerated by the rotation motor may be supplied to the electrical generator or the lifting magnet .

Since the inverter circuits A A and B control large amounts of electricity the heating amount thereof increases considerably. Furthermore the heating amount greatly increases even in a reactor refer to included in the step up step down converter . Accordingly there is a need to cool the inverter circuits A A and B and the step up step down converter . Therefore the lifting magnet vehicle of the embodiment includes a cooling liquid circulating system which is provided separately from the cooling liquid circulating system for the engine to cool the step up step down converter and the inverter circuits A A and B.

The cooling liquid circulating system includes a pump a cooling liquid circulating pump which circulates a cooling liquid supplied to the step up step down converter the inverter circuits A A and B and the like and a pump motor a cooling motor which drives the pump . The pump motor is connected to the electrical storage means via the inverter circuit C. The inverter circuit C supplies the necessary amount of electricity for the pump motor when cooling the step up step down converter on the basis of the instruction from the controller . The cooling liquid circulating system of the embodiment cools the step up step down converter the inverter circuits A A and B and the controller . Furthermore the cooling liquid circulating system cools the electrical generator the speed reducer and the rotation motor .

An operation device is connected to the pilot pump via a pilot line . The operation device is an operation device which is used to operate the rotation motor the running mechanism the boom the arm and the lifting magnet and is operated by the operator. The control valve is connected to the operation device via a hydraulic line and the pressure sensor is connected thereto via a hydraulic line . The operation device converts a hydraulic pressure a primary hydraulic pressure supplied via the pilot line into a hydraulic pressure a secondary hydraulic pressure in accordance with an amount operated by the operator. The secondary hydraulic pressure output from the operation device is supplied to the control valve via the hydraulic line and is detected by the pressure sensor . Here the rotation motor is exemplified as the working motor but the running mechanism may be electrically driven by the working motor.

When an operation for rotating the rotation mechanism is input to the operation device the pressure sensor detects the operation amount as a change in hydraulic pressure inside the hydraulic line . The pressure sensor outputs an electrical signal representing the hydraulic pressure inside the hydraulic line . The electrical signal is input to the controller and is used to control the driving of the rotation motor .

The controller constitutes the control circuit of the embodiment. The controller includes a calculation processing device having a CPU Central Processing Unit and an internal memory and is realized by executing the driving control program stored in the internal memory via the CPU. Furthermore the power supply of the controller is a battery for example 24 V of an in vehicle battery different from the battery . The controller converts a signal representing an operation amount for rotating the rotation mechanism among the signals input from the pressure sensor into a speed instruction and controls the driving of the rotation motor . Furthermore the controller executes an operation control switching an assisting operation and an electricity generation operation of the electrical generator executes the driving control switching magnetization and demagnetization of the lifting magnet and executes the charging and discharging control of the battery by controlling the driving of the step up step down converter .

Furthermore the controller of the embodiment has a DC bus voltage lowering mode a busbar voltage lowering mode for decreasing the voltage of the DC bus specifically consuming the electrical charge stored in a smoothing capacitor or the like connected to the DC bus when the maintenance of the hybrid type construction machine is performed. In the DC bus voltage lowering mode the controller stops the operation of all the inverter circuits A A and B and the step up step down converter and decreases the voltage of the DC bus by driving the inverter circuit C to consume the electricity in the pump motor after a switch which is the same as that of provided between the step up step down converter and the battery enters a disconnection state. The DC bus voltage lowering mode is started when the operation of the hybrid type construction machine is stopped specifically when the engine is about to stop by the operator operating the key or an input related to the start of the DC bus voltage lowering mode is performed by the operator via the operation panel inside the operation room

Here the step up step down converter of the embodiment will be described by referring to again. FIG. schematically illustrates a circuit configuration of the step up step down converter . The step up step down converter includes a reactor transistors B and C and a smoothening capacitor . The transistors B and C are each configured as for example an IGBT Insulated Gate Bipolar Transistor and are connected in series to each other. Specifically the collector of the transistor B and the emitter of the transistor C are connected to each other the emitter of the transistor B is connected to the negative terminal of the battery and the negative interconnection of the DC bus and the collector of the transistor C is connected to the positive interconnection of the DC bus . Then in the reactor one end thereof is connected to the collector of the transistor B and the emitter of the transistor C and the other end thereof is connected to the positive terminal of the battery . A PWM voltage is applied from the controller to the gates of the transistors B and C. Furthermore a diode as a rectifying element is reversely connected in parallel between the collector and the emitter of the transistor B. In the same manner the diode is reversely connected between the collector and the emitter of the transistor C. The smoothening capacitor is connected between the collector of the transistor C and the emitter of the transistor B and smoothens the output voltage from the step up step down converter .

In the step up step down converter with such a configuration when the DC power is supplied from the battery to the DC bus a PWM voltage is applied to the gate of the transistor B an induced electromotive force generated in the reactor with the on off of the transistor B is transmitted via the diode and the electricity is smoothened by the capacitor . Furthermore when the DC power is supplied from the DC bus to the battery a PWM voltage is applied to the gate of the transistor C and the current output from the transistor C is smoothened by the reactor .

Here since the transistors B and C control large amounts of electricity the heating amount thereof considerably increases. Furthermore the heating amount greatly increases even in the reactor . Accordingly the transistors B and C and the reactor need to be cooled. Furthermore since the inverter circuits A A and B also include a transistor for large amounts of electricity as in the step up step down converter the inverter circuits need to be cooled. Therefore the lifting magnet vehicle of the embodiment includes a cooling liquid circulating system which cools the step up step down converter and the inverter circuits A A and B.

The step up step down converter unit and the inverter units to each has a metallic casing which has a rectangular external shape elongated in the depth direction. The units to are placed on a bottom plate of a pedestal including the metallic bottom plate and are arranged in a predetermined direction a horizontal direction . Furthermore the pedestal includes side plates which interpose the units to therebetween in the predetermined direction.

A control unit bottom plate as an upper cover is provided on the units to to cover the upper surfaces of the units and the control unit is placed on the control unit bottom plate . Further a heat sink is attached to the upper surface of the control unit for the purpose of air cooling.

Furthermore the control unit includes therein a cooling pipe . In the same manner the step up step down converter unit includes therein a cooling pipe and the inverter units to respectively include therein cooling pipes to

The step up step down converter unit has a configuration in which an electronic component such as an IPM and a reactor constituting the step up step down converter is accommodated in a casing having a substantially rectangular external shape and includes electrical input and output terminals. The battery refer to is connected to the output terminal of the step up step down converter unit and the step up step down converter unit controls the charging and discharging of the battery .

The inverter units to have a configuration in which an electronic component such as an IPM and a smoothing capacitor constituting the inverter circuits A and A to C is accommodated in the casings to having a substantially rectangular external shape and each includes electrical input and output terminals. The output terminals of the inverter units to are respectively connected to the electrical generator the rotation motor the lifting magnet and the pump motor . The AC motor is AC driven by the PWM control signal output from the inverter units to .

The bottom surfaces of the casings to of the units to are detachably fixed to the bottom plate of the pedestal by a fastening tool such as a bolt . Furthermore the side surfaces of the casings and of the units and located at both ends of the arrangement direction of the units to are detachably fixed to the side plates of the pedestal by a fastening tool including a bolt and a nut. Furthermore the casings of the adjacent units of the units to are detachably fixed to each other by a fastening tool including a bolt and a nut. Then the upper surfaces that is the surfaces facing the control unit of the casings to of the units to are opened to facilitate the access to the fastening tools and and the openings are closed by the control unit bottom plate

Furthermore the servo control unit further includes the DC bus refer to . The DC bus is configured as a busbar which is a thin and elongated metal sheet and is provided to cross the units to along the arrangement direction the predetermined direction of the units to . The input terminals of the inverter units to and the input terminal of the step up step down converter unit are respectively connected to the DC bus and the DC power is received and transmitted between the units to via the DC bus . The step up step down converter unit controls the voltage of the DC bus to be constant by controlling the charging and discharging of the battery .

Furthermore each of the units to includes therein a plurality of CPUs to . The plurality of CPUs to controls on off of the transistor included in the inverter circuit of the corresponding unit among the units to when receiving an instruction from an upper level CPU not shown disposed away therefrom.

Next the internal configuration of each of the units to and the connection structure between each of the units to and the DC bus will be described in detail.

The inverter units and include therein an IPM obtained by assembling the transistor constituting the inverter circuit and cooling pipes and . The IPM is mounted on the interconnection substrate . The cooling pipes and are disposed in a two dimensional shape along the inner surfaces of the inverter units and . Specifically the cooling pipes and are accommodated in metallic containers and with a rectangular cross section while being bent several times and made as long as possible inside the inverter units and and are disposed to contact the inner surfaces of the metallic containers and . As shown in the IPM is disposed to contact the outer surfaces of the metallic containers and and the metallic containers and transfers the heat generated from the IPM to the cooling pipes and

Rectangular notch portions and are provided at the upper edges of the side plates and of the inverter units and of the casings and so as to dispose the DC bus therein. Smoothing capacitors and are disposed to contact the inner surfaces of the side plates and of the casings and and the positive and negative terminals of the smoothing capacitor and protrude upward from the height of the rectangular notch portion at the upper edges of the side plates of the casings and . Furthermore the casings and of the inverter units and have the same structure and the DC bus is disposed to cross the inverter units to .

A rectangular notch portion not shown is provided at the upper edge of the side plate adjacent to the peripheral unit in other invert units and so as to dispose the DC bus therein. In the inner surface of the side plate adjacent to the inverter unit in the inverter unit and the inner surface of the side plate adjacent to the inverter unit in the inverter unit the smoothing capacitors are disposed to contact the inner surfaces as in the inverter units and . In this manner the DC bus is disposed to penetrate the inverter units to interposed between the respective units. Furthermore a sealed state is formed inside the metallic container and the rectangular notch portion of each of the units by the control unit bottom plate as an upper cover. Accordingly waterproofing and dustproofing of each inverter are realized.

The DC bus includes a plate like positive busbar and a plate like negative busbar . The positive busbar has a substantially rectangular shape which is thin and elongated in the horizontal direction a predetermined direction . The negative busbar is disposed above the positive busbar without contacting the positive busbar has a shape surrounding the upper surface side of the positive busbar and is formed to cover the positive busbar . Here the positive and negative sides may be disposed reversely. The positive busbar and the negative busbar are detachably fixed by a fastening tool such as a bolt so as to be directly connected to the terminals of the smoothing capacitors and of the inverter units and and the smoothing capacitors of the inverter units and .

The positive busbar is fixed by a bolt so as to be directly connected to the positive terminals of the smoothing capacitors and of the inverter units and and the smoothing capacitors of the inverter units and . Furthermore the negative busbar is fixed by a bolt so as to be directly connected to the negative terminals of the smoothing capacitors and of the inverter units and and the smoothing capacitors of the inverter units and . In this manner the DC bus is fixed to the smoothing capacitors while not contacting the metallic containers of the inverter units to .

The positive busbar and the positive terminal the input terminal of the IPM are connected to each other by an interconnection and the negative terminal the input terminal and the negative busbar are connected to each other by an interconnection. Furthermore each of three phase output terminals the output terminals of the inverter circuit A is connected to the terminal block by an interconnection. The terminal block is used for the connection of the electrical generator .

The step up step down converter unit includes therein an IPM obtained by assembling the transistors B and C constituting the step up step down converter the reactor and the cooling pipe . The IPM is mounted on the interconnection substrate . The cooling pipe is disposed in a two dimensional shape along the side surface of the step up step down converter unit . Specifically the cooling pipe is accommodated in a metallic container with a rectangular cross section while being bent several times and made as long as possible inside the step up step down converter unit and is disposed to contact the inner surface of the metallic container . As shown in the reactor and the IPM are disposed to contact the outer surface of the metallic container and the metallic container transfers the heat generated from the reactor and the IPM to the cooling pipe . Accordingly the reactor and the IPM are cooled.

A rectangular notch portion is provided at the upper edge of the side plate of the casing of the step up step down converter unit so as to dispose the DC bus therein. A sealed state is formed inside the metallic container of the step up step down converter unit and the rectangular notch portion by the control unit bottom plate as an upper cover. Accordingly waterproofing and dustproofing of the step up step down converter are realized. The positive terminal the input terminal of the IPM and the positive busbar are connected to each other by an interconnection and the negative terminal the input terminal and the negative busbar are connected to each other by an interconnection. Furthermore a terminal of the IPM is connected to a terminal of the reactor by an interconnection a terminal of the reactor is connected to a terminal block by an interconnection and a terminal of the IPM. is connected to a terminal block by an interconnection. The terminal blocks and are used for the connection of the battery .

Here is a perspective view illustrating a state where the control unit of the servo control unit is opened. As shown in the control unit is attached to be rotatable about a support shaft provided along a predetermined direction at the rear ends of the units to in the direction the length direction of each of the units to in the embodiment intersecting the arrangement direction the predetermined direction of the units to . Specifically a part of the pedestal is disposed to contact the rear surface of each of the casings to of the units to for example refer to and the control unit bottom plate is attached to the pedestal via a hinge a support shaft fixed to the portion of the pedestal . Since the control unit is fixed to the control unit bottom plate the control unit is rotated opened and closed about the support shaft together with the control unit bottom plate . With such a mechanism the openings of the casings to of the units to are exposed to the outside and access to the fastening tools and refer to becomes possible. In this manner the interior of each of the units to becomes a sealed space when the control unit is placed thereon during the operation of the lifting magnet vehicle and the sealed space is opened during the maintenance of the servo control unit .

Furthermore the servo control unit further includes a support tool which supports the control unit while the control unit is opened about the support shaft with respect to the units to . The support tool is configured as for example a metallic rod like member where one end thereof engages with the vicinity of the side plate of the pedestal and the other end thereof engages with the control unit bottom plate . The support tool is accommodated in any one position of the servo control unit while being closed by the control unit .

Furthermore in the above description an example has been described in which the control unit bottom plate is used as the upper cover for the inverter units to or the step up step down converter unit . However the upper cover for the inverter units to or the step up step down converter unit may not be a member constituting the control unit but may be any member for example a steel plate as long as the member has a waterproof function. Furthermore instead of the configuration in which the inverter units to or the step up step down converter unit is blocked by the member common to the control unit bottom plate they may be blocked by the members respectively provided in the units to .

Here the DC bus voltage lowering mode of the controller will be described further. As described above the DC bus voltage lowering mode indicates an operation mode for decreasing the voltage of the DC bus while the operation of the hybrid type construction machine is stopped. In this operation mode the inverter circuits A A and B and the step up step down converter are all stopped the switch provided between the step up step down converter and the battery enters a disconnection state and the inverter circuit C is driven to consume the electricity in the pump motor thereby decreasing the voltage of the DC bus .

At this time the inverter circuit C continuously drives the pump motor as the cooling motor and the cooling liquid continuously circulates inside the cooling liquid circulating system by the pump motor . The controller continuously operates the pump motor by continuously driving the inverter circuit C step S . The inverter circuit C is continuously driven until the voltage of the DC bus detected by the same voltage sensor as the voltage sensor shown in becomes a predetermined threshold value or less step S No .

Then when the voltage of the DC bus becomes a predetermined threshold value or less step S Yes the controller stops the driving of the inverter circuit C step S . Accordingly the operation of the pump motor is stopped so that the DC bus voltage lowering mode is finished and the operation of the lifting magnet vehicle is completely stopped.

The effect obtained by the lifting magnet vehicle of the embodiment will be described. As described above the lifting magnet vehicle includes the pump circulating the cooling liquid for cooling the inverter units to the step up step down converter unit or the control unit . Then when the voltage of the DC bus is decreased according to the necessity of maintenance the voltage of the DC bus is consumed in a manner such that the pump motor driving the pump is driven by the controller by using the voltage of the DC bus . Originally the pump is mounted on the lifting magnet vehicle to cool the inverter units to or the step up step down converter unit . Therefore according to this method a new component such as a resistor or a switch may not be further provided only for the DC bus voltage lowering mode. Therefore according to the lifting magnet vehicle of the embodiment the voltage of the DC bus may be decreased with a configuration suppressing a degradation in reliability.

Furthermore the pump motor is different from for example the electrical generator driving the hydraulic pump or the working motor such as the rotation motor driving the working component such as the rotation body . Even when the pump motor is driven the cooling liquid just circulates inside the pipe without applying a driving force to the movable portion the working component or the like. Therefore according to the lifting magnet vehicle of the embodiment since the voltage of the DC bus may be decreased without applying a driving force to a work component or the like the voltage of the DC bus may be safely decreased.

Next the lifting magnet vehicle of the embodiment and particularly the effect of the servo control unit will be described. In the servo control unit the casings to are provided for the driver circuit such as the step up step down converter performing the charging and discharging of the battery or the inverter circuit any one of the inverter circuits A A to C driving one AC motor among the plurality of AC motors the electrical generator the rotation motor the pump motor and the like and the circuits and the casings to are respectively independently provided in the step up step down converter unit and the inverter units to . Then the casings to of the units to are fixed to be individually attached to or detached from the servo control unit . Accordingly since each of the units to may be easily detached from the servo control unit in the construction site or the like a high maintenance property may be ensured when an abnormality is generated from any one of the circuits.

Furthermore in the servo control unit of the embodiment the units to are arranged in a predetermined direction and the casings to are fixed to each other by the fastening tool . With this configuration the entire structural strength of the servo control unit may be effectively improved and a high vibration resistance or impact resistance may be ensured.

As described above according to the lifting magnet vehicle of the embodiment a high vibration resistance or impact resistance and a high maintenance property of the servo control unit may be simultaneously obtained.

Furthermore as in the embodiment when the servo control unit includes the control unit having the controller controlling the respective circuits of the units to and the control unit is placed on the plurality of units to it is desirable that the control unit is attached to be rotatable openable and closeable about the support shaft provided at one end of the units to in a predetermined direction. Accordingly access to the interior of the units to becomes easier and a higher maintenance property is ensured. Furthermore in this case the servo control unit further includes the support tool which supports the control unit while the control unit is opened about the support shaft with respect to the units to . Accordingly the work of detaching the units to may be more easily performed and the maintenance property may be further improved.

Furthermore as in the embodiment when the control unit is rotatably placed on the plurality of units to it is desirable that the surfaces of the casings to of the units to facing the control unit are opened. Accordingly the access to the fastening tool fixing the casings to of the units to to each other or the fastening tools and fixing the casings to and the pedestal to each other may become easier and the maintenance property may be further improved.

Furthermore as in the embodiment the servo control unit includes the pedestal having the bottom plate on which the units to are placed and the side plates interpose the units to therebetween in a predetermined direction. Here it is desirable that the side plates of the pedestal are detachably fixed to the casings and of the units and located at both ends among the units to by the fastening tool . Accordingly the entire structural strength of the servo control unit may be further improved without degrading the maintenance property and vibration resistance or impact resistance may be further improved.

Furthermore in the lifting magnet vehicle of the embodiment the input terminals of the step up step down converter unit and the plurality of inverter units to are connected to the common DC bus . For this reason the space for the DC bus may be reduced and the maintenance property may be further improved. Furthermore since each of the positive busbar and the negative busbar constituting the DC bus is formed as a substantially rectangular metal sheet which is thin and elongated the input terminals of the units to may be connected to each other with a short current path and a large cross sectional area compared to the interconnection connection. Accordingly the units to may be connected to each other at low resistance.

Furthermore in the lifting magnet vehicle of the embodiment since the DC bus the busbar is provided at the rectangular notched portion provided at the side plate adjacent to the peripheral unit in each of the units to along the arrangement direction of the units to the DC bus the busbar may be disposed in a reduced space.

Next another example of the hybrid type construction machine according to the embodiment will be described. is a side view illustrating an external shape of a wheel loader B as another example of the hybrid type construction machine according to the embodiment. As shown in the wheel loader B includes a wheel which is used for running on a flat road a vehicle body which is supported by the axle of the wheel and a bucket which is disposed in front of the vehicle body . The mechanism lifting the bucket includes a lift arm and a lift cylinder and the mechanism tilting the bucket backward or discharging soil includes a bucket cylinder . The vehicle body is provided with an operation room which accommodates the operator operating the bucket or a power source such as an engine not shown generating a hydraulic pressure.

As shown in the wheel loader B includes an engine and the rotary shaft of the engine is connected to an electrical generator and a clutch via a torque splitter . The clutch is connected to an axle and transfers the power of the engine to the axle . The electrical generator assists the driving force of the engine and generates electricity by using the driving force of the engine . The AC power generated by the electrical generator is converted into the DC power by the inverter circuit included in the inverter unit and is stored in a battery with the step up step down converter.

Furthermore the battery with the step up step down converter is connected to a pump motor as an AC motor via another inverter circuit included in the inverter unit . The inverter circuit of the inverter unit converts the DC power output from the battery into the AC power to drive the pump motor . The rotary shaft of the pump motor is connected to a hydraulic pump and the hydraulic pressure generated from the hydraulic pump is supplied to the lift cylinder and the bucket cylinder . Furthermore the battery with the step up step down converter is connected to a cooling motor as an AC motor via a still another inverter circuit included in the inverter unit . The cooling motor drives a pump which supplies a cooling liquid to a water cooling pipe the pipes and shown in provided in the inverter unit and .

In this configuration the inverter units and may constitute a servo control unit A. The servo control unit A has the same configuration as that of the above described servo control unit . That is the inverter units and are arranged in a predetermined direction as in the units to shown in and the casings of the adjacent inverter units are detachably fixed to each other by a fastening tool. Furthermore the servo control unit A further includes a control unit not shown which has a control circuit controlling the respective inverter circuits of the inverter units and . The control unit is placed on the inverter units and and is attached to be rotatable openable and closeable about the support axis. Furthermore the servo control unit A includes a member corresponding to the pedestal shown in and a member corresponding to the support tool shown in .

The hybrid type construction machine of the invention is not limited to the above described embodiments but may be modified into various forms. For example in the above described embodiments the lifting magnet vehicle and the wheel loader are exemplified as the hybrid type construction machine but the invention may be applied to any hybrid type construction machine for example an excavator a crane or the like .

The invention may be used in particularly a working machine such as a hybrid type construction machine.

