---

title: Combinations of phosphoinositide 3-kinase inhibitor compounds and chemotherapeutic agents for the treatment of hematopoietic malignancies
abstract: 

url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09335320&OS=09335320&RS=09335320
owner: Genentech, Inc.
number: 09335320
owner_city: South San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130815
---
This non provisional application filed under 37 CFR 1.53 b is a divisional of U.S. Ser. No. 12 721 645 filed on 11 Mar. 2010 and also claims the benefit under 35 USC 119 e of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 159 622 filed on 12 Mar. 2009 which is incorporated by reference in entirety.

The invention relates generally to pharmaceutical combinations of compounds with activity against hematopoietic malignancies and which include compounds that inhibit PI3 kinase or mTOR activity. The invention also relates to methods of using the compounds for in vitro in situ and in vivo diagnosis or treatment of mammals and mammalian cells.

Cancers which involve cells generated during hematopoiesis a process by which cellular elements of blood such as leukocytes lymphocytes natural killer cells plasma cells and myeloid cells such as neutrophils and monocytes are generated are referred to as hematopoietic malignancies. Lymphocytes which can be found in blood and lymphatic tissue and are critical for immune response are categorized into two main classes of lymphocytes B lymphocytes B cells and T lymphocytes T cells which mediate humoral and cellular immunity respectively. B cells are lymphocytes that play a large role in the humoral immune response as opposed to the cell mediated immune response which is governed by T cells . The principal functions of B cells are to make antibodies against antigens perform the role of Antigen Presenting Cells APCs and eventually develop into memory B cells after activation by antigen interaction. B cells are an essential component of the adaptive immune system. B cells mature within the bone marrow and leave the marrow expressing an antigen binding antibody on their cell surface. When a naive B cell first encounters the antigen for which its membrane bound antibody is specific the cell begins to divide rapidly and its progeny differentiate into memory B cells and effector cells called plasma cells . Memory B cells have a longer life span and continue to express membrane bound antibody with the same specificity as the original parent cell. Plasma cells do not produce membrane bound antibody but instead produce the antibody in a form that can be secreted. Secreted antibodies are the major effector molecules of humoral immunity.

The non Hodgkin lymphomas are a diverse group of hematopoietic malignancies which encompass any lymphoma other than Hodgkin lymphoma. Lymphoma is a type of cancer derived from lymphocytes a type of white blood cell. Many subtypes of non Hodgkin lymphoma have been described these are generally grouped by their aggressiveness. Less aggressive non Hodgkin lymphomas may be chronic diseases which exist for many years while more aggressive non Hodgkin lymphomas can be rapidly fatal without treatment. Non Hodgkin lymphomas are treated by combinations of chemotherapy monoclonal antibodies immunotherapy radiation and hematopoietic stem cell transplantation.

Lymphoma is a type of neoplasm that originates in lymphocytes a type of white blood cell in the vertebrate immune system and in lymph nodes presenting as an enlargement of the node a tumor . Lymphomas are closely related to lymphoid leukemias which also originate in lymphocytes but do not form solid tumors. There are many types of lymphomas and in turn lymphomas are a part of the broad group of hematopoietic malignancies called hematological neoplasms.

Acute Myeloid Leukemia AML comprises a heterogeneous group of malignant clonal disorders of hematopoietic stem cells committed to the myeloid linage development. There is a block in normal hematopoietic differentiation often combined with deregulation of proliferation and apoptosis. This leads to progressive insufficiency of the normal hematopoiesis ensuing in anemia neutropenia and thrombocytopenia. AML accounts for about 80 of all adult leukemia and its overall incidence has been stable or slowly increasing over the past 15 20 years. The prognosis of AML remains poor with an overall 5 year survival rate of 15 30 while patients with AML arising out of myelodysplastic syndrome or who are aged above 60 years have an even worse prognosis with less than 10 survival at 5 years Smith M. et al 2004 Crit. Rev. Oncol. Hematol. 50 197 222 . The standard therapeutic approach for AML patients is high dose chemotherapy mainly consisting of cytarabine Ara C and an anthracycline antibiotic such as daunorubicin or idarubicin. Usually AML responds to initial chemotherapy but disease relapse occurs in most patients. While results of AML treatment have improved in younger patients who can tolerate intensified treatment strategies there have been limited changes in outcome among individuals who are above 60 years of age. The limit of acceptable toxicity for standard chemotherapeutic drugs used in AML has been reached. A significant unmet need therefore remains for new rationally designed minimally toxic and effective therapies for AML Fathi A. T. and Karp J. E. 2009 Curr. Oncol. Rep. 11 346 352 Stapnes et al 2009 Expert Opin. Investig. Drugs 18 433 455 .

Combinations of anti cancer pharmaceutical therapeutics administered simultaneously or sequentially in a dosing regimen are now common in cancer treatment. Successful combination therapy provides improved and even synergistic effect over monotherapy i.e. pharmaceutical treatment limited to one drug Ouchi et al 2006 Cancer Chemother. Pharmacol. 57 693 702 Higgins et al 2004 Anti Cancer Drugs 15 503 512 . Preclinical research has been the basis for prediction of clinical stage synergy of anti cancer pharmaceutical therapeutic combinations such as capecitabine and taxanes for the treatment of breast cancer Sawada et al 1998 Clin. Cancer Res. 4 1013 1019 . Certain doses and schedules of combination therapy can improve safety without compromising efficacy O Shaughnessy et al 2006 Clin. Breast Cancer April 7 1 42 50 . Synergistic effects in vitro have been correlated with clinical stage synergy Steinbach et al 2003 Clin. Inf. Dis. October 1 37 Suppl 3 S188 224 .

Phosphatidylinositol 3 Kinase PI3K is a major signaling node for key survival and growth signals for lymphomas and is opposed by the activity of the phosphatase PTEN. The PI3K pathway is dysregulated in aggressive forms of lymphoma Abubaker 2007 Leukemia 21 2368 2370 . Eight percent of DLBCL diffuse large B cell lymphoma cancers have PI3CA phosphatidylinositol 3 kinase catalytic subunit alpha missense mutations and 37 are PTEN negative by immunohistochemistry test.

Phosphatidylinositol is one of a number of phospholipids found in cell membranes and which participate in intracellular signal transduction. Cell signaling via 3 phosphorylated phosphoinositides has been implicated in a variety of cellular processes e.g. malignant transformation growth factor signaling inflammation and immunity Rameh et al 1999 J. Biol Chem. 274 8347 8350 . The enzyme responsible for generating these phosphorylated signaling products phosphatidylinositol 3 kinase also referred to as PI 3 kinase or PI3K was originally identified as an activity associated with viral oncoproteins and growth factor receptor tyrosine kinases that phosphorylate phosphatidylinositol PI and its phosphorylated derivatives at the 3 hydroxyl of the inositol ring Panayotou et al 1992 Trends Cell Biol 2 358 60 . Phosphoinositide 3 kinases PI3K are lipid kinases that phosphorylate lipids at the 3 hydroxyl residue of an inositol ring Whitman et al 1988 Nature 332 664 . The 3 phosphorylated phospholipids PIP3s generated by PI3 kinases act as second messengers recruiting kinases with lipid binding domains including plekstrin homology PH regions such as Akt and PDK1 phosphoinositide dependent kinase 1 Vivanco et al 2002 Nature Rev. Cancer 2 489 Phillips et al 1998 Cancer 83 41 .

The PI3 kinase family comprises at least 15 different enzymes sub classified by structural homology and are divided into 3 classes based on sequence homology and the product formed by enzyme catalysis. The class I PI3 kinases are composed of 2 subunits a 110 kd catalytic subunit and an 85 kd regulatory subunit. The regulatory subunits contain SH2 domains and bind to tyrosine residues phosphorylated by growth factor receptors with a tyrosine kinase activity or oncogene products thereby inducing the PI3K activity of the p110 catalytic subunit which phosphorylates its lipid substrate. Class I PI3 kinases are involved in important signal transduction events downstream of cytokines integrins growth factors and immunoreceptors which suggests that control of this pathway may lead to important therapeutic effects such as modulating cell proliferation and carcinogenesis. Class I PI3Ks can phosphorylate phosphatidylinositol PI phosphatidylinositol 4 phosphate and phosphatidylinositol 4 5 biphosphate PIP2 to produce phosphatidylinositol 3 phosphate PIP phosphatidylinositol 3 4 biphosphate and phosphatidylinositol 3 4 5 triphosphate respectively. Class II PI3Ks phosphorylate PI and phosphatidylinositol 4 phosphate. Class III PI3Ks can only phosphorylate PI. A key PI3 kinase isoform in cancer is the Class I PI3 kinase p110 as indicated by recurrent oncogenic mutations in p110 Samuels et al 2004 Science 304 554 . U.S. Pat. No. 5 824 492 U.S. Pat. No. 5 846 824 U.S. Pat. No. 6 274 327 . Other isoforms may be important in cancer and are also implicated in cardiovascular and immune inflammatory disease Workman P 2004 Biochem Soc Trans 32 393 396 Patel et al 2004 Proc. Am. Assoc. of Cancer Res. Abstract LB 247 95th Annual Meeting March 27 31 Orlando Fla. USA Ahmadi K and Waterfield Md. 2004 Phosphoinositide 3 Kinase Function and Mechanisms Encyclopedia of Biological Chemistry Lennarz W J Lane M D eds Elsevier Academic Press Oncogenic mutations of p110 alpha have been found at a significant frequency in colon breast brain liver ovarian gastric lung and head and neck solid tumors. PTEN abnormalities are found in glioblastoma melanoma prostate endometrial ovarian breast lung head and neck hepatocellular and thyroid cancers.

PI3 kinase is a heterodimer consisting of p85 and p110 subunits Otsu et al 1991 Cell 65 91 104 Hiles et al 1992 Cell 70 419 29 . Four distinct Class I PI3Ks have been identified designated PI13K alpha beta delta and gamma each consisting of a distinct 110 kDa catalytic subunit and a regulatory subunit. Three of the catalytic subunits i.e. p110 alpha p110 beta and p110 delta each interact with the same regulatory subunit p85 whereas p110 gamma interacts with a distinct regulatory subunit p101. The patterns of expression of each of these PI3Ks in human cells and tissues are distinct. In each of the PI3K alpha beta and delta subtypes the p85 subunit acts to localize PI3 kinase to the plasma membrane by the interaction of its SH2 domain with phosphorylated tyrosine residues present in an appropriate sequence context in target proteins Rameh et al 1995 Cell 83 821 30 Volinia et al 1992 Oncogene 7 789 93 .

The PI3 kinase Akt PTEN pathway is an attractive target for cancer drug development since such agents would be expected to inhibit cellular proliferation to repress signals from stromal cells that provide for survival and chemoresistance of cancer cells to reverse the repression of apoptosis and surmount intrinsic resistance of cancer cells to cytotoxic agents. PI3 kinase inhibitors have been reported Yaguchi et al 2006 Jour. of the Nat. Cancer Inst. 98 8 545 556 U.S. Pat. No. 7 173 029 U.S. Pat. No. 7 037 915 U.S. Pat. No. 6 608 056 U.S. Pat. No. 6 608 053 U.S. Pat. No. 6 838 457 U.S. Pat. No. 6 770 641 U.S. Pat. No. 6 653 320 U.S. Pat. No. 6 403 588 WO 2006 046031 WO 2006 046035 WO 2006 046040 WO 2007 042806 WO 2007 042810 WO 2004 017950 US 2004 092561 WO 2004 007491 WO 2004 006916 WO 2003 037886 US 2003 149074 WO 2003 035618 WO 2003 034997 US 2003 158212 EP 1417976 US 2004 053946 JP 2001247477 JP 08175990 JP 08176070 . Wortmannin analogs have PI3 kinase activity in mammals U.S. Pat. No. 6 703 414 WO 97 15658 .

Thienopyrimidine compounds of Formula I have p110 alpha binding PI3 kinase inhibitory activity and inhibit the growth of cancer cells US 2008 0207611 US 2008 0039459 US 2008 0076768 US 2008 0076758 US 2008 0242665 US 2008 0269210.

An exemplary Formula I compound GDC 0941 CAS Reg. No. 957054 30 7 Genentech Inc. is a selective orally bioavailable inhibitor of PI3K with promising pharmacokinetic and pharmaceutical properties Folkes et al 2008 Jour. of Med. Chem. 51 18 5522 5532 US 2008 0076768 Belvin et al American Association for Cancer Research Annual Meeting 2008 99th April 15 Abstract 4004 Folkes et al American Association for Cancer Research Annual Meeting 2008 99th April 14 Abstract LB 146 Friedman et al American Association for Cancer Research Annual Meeting 2008 99th April 14 Abstract LB 110 . The exemplary Formula I compound GDC 0941 shows synergistic activity in vitro and in vivo in combination with certain chemotherapeutic agents against solid tumor cell lines U.S. Ser. No. 12 208 227 Belvin et al Combinations Of Phosphoinositide 3 Kinase Inhibitor Compounds And Chemotherapeutic Agents And Methods Of Use filed 10 Sep. 2008 .

The invention relates generally to thienopyrimidine compounds of Formula I with anti cancer activity and more specifically with PI3 kinase or mTOR inhibitory activity administered in combination with monoclonal antibody agents or chemotherapeutic agents to inhibit the growth of hematopoietic malignancies. Certain combinations of Formula I compounds with chemotherapeutic agents show synergistic effects in inhibiting the growth of hematopoietic cancer cells in vitro and in vivo. The combinations and methods of the invention may be useful in the treatment of hematopoietic malignancies. The compositions may inhibit tumor growth in mammals and may be useful for treating human cancer patients.

In one aspect the invention includes a method for the treatment of a hematopoietic malignancy comprising administering a therapeutic combination as a combined formulation or alternation to a mammal wherein the therapeutic combination comprises a therapeutically effective amount of a compound having Formula I and a therapeutically effective amount of a chemotherapeutic agent selected from dexamethasone thioTEPA doxorubicin vincristine rituximab cyclophosphamide prednisone melphalan lenalidomide bortezomib rapamycin and cytarabine.

The invention also relates to methods of using the therapeutic combinations for in vitro in situ and in vivo diagnosis or treatment of mammalian cells organisms or associated pathological conditions related to the hematopoietic malignancies.

An aspect of the invention provides therapeutic combinations comprising 4 2 1H indazol 4 yl 6 4 methylsulfonyl piperazzin 1 yl methyl thieno 3 2 d pyrimidin 4 yl morpholine US 2008 0076768 US 2008 0207611 Folkes et al 2008 Jour. of Med. Chem. 51 18 5522 5532 also known as GDC 0941 Genentech Inc. and having Formula Ia and a therapeutically effective amount of a chemotherapeutic agent selected from dexamethasone thioTEPA doxorubicin vincristine rituximab cyclophosphamide prednisone melphalan lenalidomide bortezomib rapamycin and cytarabine.

An aspect of the invention provides therapeutic combinations comprising S 1 4 2 2 aminopyrimidin 5 yl 7 methyl 4 morpholinothieno 3 2 d pyrimidin 6 yl methyl piperazin 1 yl 2 hydroxypropan 1 one US 2008 0242665 having Formula Ib and a therapeutically effective amount of a chemotherapeutic agent selected from dexamethasone thioTEPA doxorubicin vincristine rituximab cyclophosphamide prednisone melphalan lenalidomide bortezomib rapamycin and cytarabine.

Formula I compounds include all stereoisomers geometric isomers tautomers metabolites and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof. Certain Formula I compounds are potent inhibitors of PI3K with drug like physicochemical and pharmacokinetic properties. Certain Formula I compounds exhibit selectivity for class Ia PI3Ks over class Ib in particular for the P110 alpha subtype. Formula Ia and Ib compounds are orally bioavailable and have single agent anti tumor activity in multiple human cancer models.

Pharmaceutical compositions and therapeutic combinations of the invention comprise a chemotherapeutic agent selected from dexamethasone thioTEPA doxorubicin vincristine rituximab cyclophosphamide prednisone melphalan lenalidomide bortezomib rapamycin and cytarabine.

Pharmaceutical compositions of the invention may further comprise a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.

Another aspect of the invention provides methods of treating a hematopoietic malignancy modulated by PI3 kinases comprising administering to a mammal in need of such treatment effective amounts of a Formula I compound and a chemotherapeutic agent. The Formula I compound and the chemotherapeutic agent may be co formulated for administration in a combination as a pharmaceutical composition or they may be administered separately in alternation sequentially consecutively as a therapeutic combination.

Another aspect of the invention provides methods of treating a hematopoietic malignancy comprising administering to a mammal in need of such treatment effective amounts of the Formula I compound and a chemotherapeutic agent.

In a further aspect the present invention provides a method of using a pharmaceutical composition of the invention to treat a hematopoietic malignancy disease or condition modulated by PI3 kinase in a mammal.

An additional aspect of the invention is the use of a pharmaceutical composition of the invention in the preparation of a medicament for the treatment of a hematopoietic malignancy disease or condition modulated by PI3 kinase in a mammal.

Another aspect of the invention includes articles of manufacture or kits comprising a Formula I compound a chemotherapeutic agent a container and optionally a package insert or label indicating a treatment for a hematopoietic malignancy.

Another aspect of the invention is a product comprising a Formula I compound and a chemotherapeutic agent selected from dexamethasone thioTEPA doxorubicin vincristine rituximab cyclophosphamide prednisone melphalan lenalidomide bortezomib rapamycin and cytarabine as a combined preparation for separate simultaneous or sequential use in the treatment of a hematopoietic malignancy.

Another aspect of the invention includes a method for determining compounds to be used in combination for the treatment of cancer comprising a administering a therapeutic combination comprising a Formula I compound and a chemotherapeutic agent to an in vitro hematopoietic malignancy cell line with one or more mutations and b measuring a synergistic or non synergistic effect.

Another aspect of the invention is methods of therapeutically treating a mammal having a hematopoietic malignancy wherein the method comprises administering to the mammal a therapeutically effective amount of the therapeutic combination thereby resulting in the effective therapeutic treatment of the hematopoietic malignancy such as non Hodgkin s lymphoma diffuse large hematopoietic lymphoma follicular lymphoma mantle cell lymphoma chronic lymphocytic leukemia multiple myeloma AML and MCL. In one embodiment the therapeutic combination inhibits one or more isoforms of PI3K. In one embodiment the therapeutic combination inhibits mTOR.

In one aspect the invention provides a method of inhibiting the growth of a non Hodgkin s lymphoma comprising administering the therapeutic combination to a patient with a non Hodgkin s lymphoma whereby growth of the lymphoma is inhibited.

In one aspect the invention provides a method of inhibiting the growth of a non Hodgkin s lymphoma comprising administering the therapeutic combination to a lymphoma cell or to a cell present in and or adjacent to the lymphoma whereby growth of the lymphoma is inhibited. In one embodiment said cell is not a non Hodgkin s lymphoma cell e.g. it is not a T or B cell for example said cell may be a stromal cell.

The words comprise comprising include including and includes when used in this specification and claims are intended to specify the presence of stated features integers components or steps but they do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers components steps or groups thereof.

The terms treat and treatment refer to both therapeutic treatment and prophylactic or preventative measures wherein the object is to prevent or slow down lessen an undesired physiological change or disorder such as the growth development or spread of cancer. Those in need of treatment include those already with the disorder as well as those prone to have the disorder or those in whom the disorder is to be prevented. For purposes of this invention beneficial or desired clinical results include but are not limited to alleviation of symptoms diminishment of extent of disease stabilized i.e. not worsening state of disease delay or slowing of disease progression amelioration or palliation of the disease state and remission whether partial or total whether detectable or undetectable. Treatment can also mean prolonging survival as compared to expected survival if not receiving treatment. Those in need of treatment include those already with the condition or disorder as well as those prone to have the condition or disorder or those in which the condition or disorder is to be prevented.

A subject or mammal is successfully treated for a hematopoietic malignancy such as non Hodgkin s lymphoma if after receiving a therapeutic amount of the therapeutic combination according to the methods of the invention the patient shows one or more of i observable and or measurable reduction in the number of cancer cells or absence of the cancer cells ii reduction in the tumor size inhibition i.e. slow to some extent and preferably stop of cancer cell infiltration into peripheral organs including the spread of cancer into soft tissue and bone iii inhibition i.e. slow to some extent and preferably stop of tumor metastasis iv inhibition to some extent of tumor growth or v relief to some extent of one or more of the symptoms associated with the specific cancer including reduced morbidity and mortality and improvement in quality of life. To the extent the therapeutic combination may prevent growth and or kill existing cancer cells it may be cytostatic and or cytotoxic. Reduction of these signs or symptoms may also be felt by the patient. The above parameters for assessing successful treatment and improvement in the disease are readily measurable by routine procedures familiar to a physician. For cancer therapy efficacy can be measured for example by assessing the time to disease progression TTP and or determining the response rate RR . Metastasis can be determined by staging tests and by bone scan and tests for calcium level and other enzymes to determine spread to the bone. CT scans can also be done to look for spread to the pelvis and lymph nodes in the area. Chest X rays and measurement of liver enzyme levels by known methods are used to look for metastasis to the lungs and liver respectively.

The term hematopoietic malignancy refers to a cancer or hyperproliferative disorder generated during hematopoiesis involving cells such as leukocytes lymphocytes natural killer cells plasma cells and myeloid cells such as neutrophils and monocytes. Hematopoietic Malignancies include the diseases listed in Table 1 the WHO classification of Human Hematopoietic Malignancies Tumors of Hematopoietic and Lymphoid Tissues Jaffe E. S. Harris N. L. Stein H. Vardiman J. W. Eds. 2001 World Health Organization Classification of Tumours. Pathology and Genetics of Tumours of Hematopoietic and Lymphoid Tissues. IARC Press Lyon with the morphology code of the International Classification of Diseases ICD O . Behavior is coded 3 for malignant tumors and 1 for lesions of low or uncertain malignant potential.

A B cell is a lymphocyte that matures within the bone marrow and includes a na ve B cell memory B cell or effector B cell plasma cell . The B cell herein is a normal or non malignant B cell.

The term antibody herein is used in the broadest sense and specifically covers monoclonal antibodies polyclonal antibodies multispecific antibodies e.g. bispecific antibodies formed from at least two intact antibodies and antibody fragments so long as they exhibit the desired biological activity.

The phrase therapeutically effective amount means an amount of a compound of the present invention that i treats the particular disease condition or disorder ii attenuates ameliorates or eliminates one or more symptoms of the particular disease condition or disorder or iii prevents or delays the onset of one or more symptoms of the particular disease condition or disorder described herein. In the case of cancer the therapeutically effective amount of the drug may reduce the number of cancer cells reduce the tumor size inhibit i.e. slow to some extent and preferably stop cancer cell infiltration into peripheral organs inhibit i.e. slow to some extent and preferably stop tumor metastasis inhibit to some extent tumor growth and or relieve to some extent one or more of the symptoms associated with the cancer. To the extent the drug may prevent growth and or kill existing cancer cells it may be cytostatic and or cytotoxic as measured by TTP and or response rate RR .

The terms cancer and cancerous refer to or describe the physiological condition in mammals that is typically characterized by unregulated cell growth. A tumor comprises one or more cancerous cells. Examples of cancer include but are not limited to carcinoma lymphoma blastoma sarcoma and leukemia or lymphoid malignancies. More particular examples of such cancers include squamous cell cancer e.g. epithelial squamous cell cancer lung cancer including small cell lung cancer non small cell lung cancer NSCLC adenocarcinoma of the lung and squamous carcinoma of the lung cancer of the peritoneum hepatocellular cancer gastric or stomach cancer including gastrointestinal cancer pancreatic cancer glioblastoma cervical cancer ovarian cancer liver cancer bladder cancer hepatoma breast cancer colon cancer rectal cancer colorectal cancer endometrial or uterine carcinoma salivary gland carcinoma kidney or renal cancer prostate cancer vulval cancer thyroid cancer hepatic carcinoma anal carcinoma penile carcinoma as well as head and neck cancer.

 Chronic administration refers to administration of the agent s in a continuous mode as opposed to an acute mode so as to maintain the initial therapeutic effect activity for an extended period of time. Intermittent administration is treatment that is not consecutively done without interruption but rather is cyclic in nature.

 Mammal for purposes of the treatment of alleviating the symptoms of a cancer refers to any animal classified as a mammal including humans domestic and farm animals and zoo sports or pet animals such as dogs cats cattle horses sheep pigs goats rabbits etc. Preferably the mammal is human.

Administration in combination with one or more further therapeutic agents includes simultaneous concurrent and consecutive alternation administration in any order.

A chemotherapeutic agent is a biological large molecule or chemical small molecule compound useful in the treatment of cancer regardless of mechanism of action. Classes of chemotherapeutic agents include but are not limited to alkylating agents antimetabolites spindle poison plant alkaloids cytotoxic antitumor antibiotics topoisomerase inhibitors proteins antibodies photosensitizers and kinase inhibitors. Chemotherapeutic agents include compounds used in targeted therapy and non targeted conventional chemotherapy.

Examples of chemotherapeutic agents include dexamethasone thioTEPA doxorubicin vincristine rituximab cyclophosphamide prednisone melphalan lenalidomide bortezomib rapamycin and cytarabine.

Examples of chemotherapeutic agents also include erlotinib TARCEVA Genentech OSI Pharm. docetaxel TAXOTERE Sanofi Aventis 5 FU fluorouracil 5 fluorouracil CAS No. 51 21 8 gemcitabine GEMZAR Lilly PD 0325901 CAS No. 391210 10 9 Pfizer cisplatin cis diamine dichloroplatinum II CAS No. 15663 27 1 carboplatin CAS No. 41575 94 4 paclitaxel TAXOL Bristol Myers Squibb Oncology temozolomide 4 methyl 5 oxo 2 3 4 6 8 pentazabicyclo 4.3.0 nona 2 7 9 triene 9 carboxamide CAS No. 85622 93 1 TEMODAR TEMODAL Schering Plough tamoxifen Z 2 4 1 2 diphenylbut 1 enyl phenoxy N N dimethyl ethanamine NOLVADEX ISTUBAL VALODEX doxorubicin ADRIAMYCIN Akti 1 2 HPPD rapamycin and lapatinib TYKERB Glaxo SmithKline .

More examples of chemotherapeutic agents include oxaliplatin ELOXATIN Sanofi bortezomib VELCADE Millennium Pharm. sutent SUNITINIB SU11248 Pfizer letrozole FEMARA Novartis imatinib mesylate GLEEVEC Novartis XL 518 MEK inhibitor Exelixis WO 2007 044515 ARRY 886 MEK inhibitor AZD6244 Array BioPharma Astra Zeneca SF 1126 PI3K inhibitor Semafore Pharmaceuticals BEZ 235 PI3K inhibitor Novartis XL 147 PI3K inhibitor Exelixis ABT 869 multi targeted inhibitor of VEGF and PDGF family receptor tyrosine kinases Abbott Laboratories and Genentech ABT 263 Bcl 2 Bcl xL inhibitor Abbott Laboratories and Genentech PTK787 ZK 222584 Novartis fulvestrant FASLODEX AstraZeneca leucovorin folinic acid lonafamib SARASAR SCH 66336 Schering Plough sorafenib NEXAVAR BAY43 9006 Bayer Labs gefitinib IRESSA AstraZeneca irinotecan CAMPTOSAR CPT 11 Pfizer tipifamib ZARNESTRA Johnson Johnson capecitabine XELODA Roche ABRAXANE Cremophor free albumin engineered nanoparticle formulations of paclitaxel American Pharmaceutical Partners Schaumberg Ill. vandetanib rINN ZD6474 ZACTIMA AstraZeneca chloranmbucil AG1478 AG1571 SU 5271 Sugen temsirolimus TORISEL Wyeth pazopanib GlaxoSmithKline canfosfamide TELCYTA Telik thioTepa and cyclosphosphamide CYTOXAN NEOSAR alkyl sulfonates such as busulfan improsulfan and piposulfan aziridines such as benzodopa carboquone meturedopa and uredopa ethylenimines and methylamelamines including altretamine triethylenemelamine triethylenephosphoramide triethylenethiophosphoramide and trimethylomelamine acetogenins especially bullatacin and bullatacinone a camptothecin including the synthetic analog topotecan bryostatin callystatin CC 1065 including its adozelesin carzelesin and bizelesin synthetic analogs cryptophycins particularly cryptophycin 1 and cryptophycin 8 dolastatin duocarmycin including the synthetic analogs KW 2189 and CB1 TM1 eleutherobin pancratistatin a sarcodictyin spongistatin nitrogen mustards such as chlorambucil chlomaphazine chlorophosphamide estramustine ifosfamide mechlorethamine mechlorethamine oxide hydrochloride melphalan novembichin phenesterine prednimustine trofosfamide uracil mustard nitrosoureas such as carmustine chlorozotocin fotemustine lomustine nimustine and ranimnustine antibiotics such as the enediyne antibiotics e.g. calicheamicin calicheamicin gamma1I calicheamicin omegaI1 dynemicin dynemicin A bisphosphonates such as clodronate an esperamicin as well as neocarzinostatin chromophore and related chromoprotein enediyne antibiotic chromophores aclacinomysins actinomycin authramycin azaserine bleomycins cactinomycin carabicin caminomycin carzinophilin chromomycinis dactinomycin daunorubicin detorubicin 6 diazo 5 oxo L norleucine morpholino doxorubicin cyanomorpholino doxorubicin 2 pyrrolino doxorubicin and deoxydoxorubicin epirubicin esorubicin idarubicin marcellomycin mitomycins such as mitomycin C mycophenolic acid nogalamycin olivomycins peplomycin porfiromycin puromycin quelamycin rodorubicin streptonigrin streptozocin tubercidin ubenimex zinostatin zorubicin anti metabolites such as methotrexate and 5 fluorouracil 5 FU folic acid analogs such as denopterin methotrexate pteropterin trimetrexate purine analogs such as fludarabine 6 mercaptopurine thiamiprine thioguanine pyrimidine analogs such as ancitabine azacitidine 6 azauridine carmofur cytarabine dideoxyuridine doxifluridine enocitabine floxuridine androgens such as calusterone dromostanolone propionate epitiostanol mepitiostane testolactone anti adrenals such as aminoglutethimide mitotane trilostane folic acid replenisher such as frolinic acid aceglatone aldophosphamide glycoside aminolevulinic acid eniluracil amsacrine bestrabucil bisantrene edatraxate defofamine demecolcine diaziquone elformithine elliptinium acetate an epothilone etoglucid gallium nitrate hydroxyurea lentinan lonidainine maytansinoids such as maytansine and ansamitocins mitoguazone mitoxantrone mopidanmol nitraerine pentostatin phenamet pirarubicin losoxantrone podophyllinic acid 2 ethylhydrazide procarbazine PSK polysaccharide complex JHS Natural Products Eugene Oreg. razoxane rhizoxin sizofuran spirogermanium tenuazonic acid triaziquone 2 2 2 trichlorotriethylamine trichothecenes especially T 2 toxin verracurin A roridin A and anguidine urethan vindesine dacarbazine mannomustine mitobronitol mitolactol pipobroman gacytosine arabinoside Ara C cyclophosphamide thioTepa 6 thioguanine mercaptopurine methotrexate platinum analogs such as cisplatin and carboplatin vinblastine etoposide VP 16 ifosfamide mitoxantrone vincristine vinorelbine NAVELBINE novantrone teniposide edatrexate daunomycin aminopterin ibandronate CPT 11 topoisomerase inhibitor RFS 2000 difluoromethylomithine DMFO retinoids such as retinoic acid and pharmaceutically acceptable salts acids and derivatives of any of the above.

Also included in the definition of chemotherapeutic agent are i anti hormonal agents that act to regulate or inhibit hormone action on tumors such as anti estrogens and selective estrogen receptor modulators SERMs including for example tamoxifen including NOLVADEX tamoxifen citrate raloxifene droloxifene 4 hydroxytamoxifen trioxifene keoxifene LY117018 onapristone and FARESTON toremifine citrate ii aromatase inhibitors that inhibit the enzyme aromatase which regulates estrogen production in the adrenal glands such as for example 4 5 imidazoles aminoglutethimide MEGASE megestrol acetate AROMASIN exemestane Pfizer formestanie fadrozole RIVISOR vorozole FEMARA letrozole Novartis and ARIMIDEX anastrozole AstraZeneca iii anti androgens such as flutamide nilutamide bicalutamide leuprolide and goserelin as well as troxacitabine a 1 3 dioxolane nucleoside cytosine analog iv protein kinase inhibitors such as MEK inhibitors WO 2007 044515 v lipid kinase inhibitors vi antisense oligonucleotides particularly those which inhibit expression of genes in signaling pathways implicated in aberrant cell proliferation for example PKC alpha Raf and H Ras such as oblimersen GENASENSE Genta Inc. vii ribozymes such as VEGF expression inhibitors e.g. ANGIOZYME and HER2 expression inhibitors viii vaccines such as gene therapy vaccines for example ALLOVECTIN LEUVECTIN and VAXID PROLEUKIN rIL 2 topoisomerase 1 inhibitors such as LURTOTECAN ABARELIX rmRH ix anti angiogenic agents such as bevacizumab AVASTIN Genentech and pharmaceutically acceptable salts acids and derivatives of any of the above.

Also included in the definition of chemotherapeutic agent are therapeutic antibodies such as alemtuzumab Campath bevacizumab AVASTIN Genentech cetuximab ERBITUX Imclone panitumumab VECTIBIX Amgen rituximab RITUXAN Genentech Biogen Idec pertuzumab OMNITARG rhuMab 2C4 Genentech trastuzumab HERCEPTIN Genentech tositumomab Bexxar Corixia and the antibody drug conjugate gemtuzumab ozogamicin MYLOTARG Wyeth .

Humanized monoclonal antibodies with therapeutic potential as chemotherapeutic agents in combination with the PI3K inhibitors of the invention include alemtuzumab apolizumab aselizumab atlizumab bapineuzumab bevacizumab bivatuzumab mertansine cantuzumab mertansine cedelizumab certolizumab pegol cidfusituzumab cidtuzumab daclizumab eculizumab efalizumab epratuzumab erlizumab felvizumab fontolizumab gemtuzumab ozogamicin inotuzumab ozogamicin ipilimumab labetuzumab lintuzumab matuzumab mepolizumab motavizumab motovizumab natalizumab nimotuzumab nolovizumab numavizumab ocrelizumab omalizumab palivizumab pascolizumab pecfusituzumab pectuzumab pertuzumab pexelizumab ralivizumab ranibizumab reslivizumab reslizumab resyvizumab rovelizumab ruplizumab sibrotuzumab siplizumab sontuzumab tacatuzumab tetraxetan tadocizumab talizumab tefibazumab tocilizumab toralizumab trastuzumab tucotuzumab celmoleukin tucusituzumab umavizumab urtoxazumab and visilizumab.

The term mammal includes but is not limited to humans mice rats guinea pigs monkeys dogs cats horses cows pigs and sheep and poultry.

The term alkyl as used herein refers to a saturated linear or branched chain monovalent hydrocarbon radical of one to twelve carbon atoms wherein the alkyl radical may be optionally substituted independently with one or more substituents described below. Examples of alkyl groups include but are not limited to methyl Me CH ethyl Et CHCH 1 propyl n Pr n propyl CHCHCH 2 propyl i Pr i propyl CH CH 1 butyl n Bu n butyl CHCHCHCH 2 methyl 1 propyl 1 Bu i butyl CHCH CH 2 butyl s Bu s butyl CH CH CHCH 2 methyl 2 propyl t Bu t butyl C CH 1 pentyl n pentyl CHCHCHCHCH 2 pentyl CH CH CHCHCH 3 pentyl CH CHCH 2 methyl 2 butyl C CH CHCH 3 methyl 2 butyl CH CH CH CH 3 methyl 1 butyl CHCHCH CH 2 methyl 1 butyl CHCH CH CHCH 1 hexyl CHCHCHCHCHCH 2 hexyl CH CH CHCHCHCH 3 hexyl CH CHCH CHCHCH 2 methyl 2 pentyl C CH CHCHCH 3 methyl 2 pentyl CH CH CH CH CHCH 4 methyl 2 pentyl CH CH CHCH CH 3 methyl 3 pentyl C CH CHCH 2 methyl 3 pentyl CH CHCH CH CH 2 3 dimethyl 2 butyl C CH CH CH 3 3 dimethyl 2 butyl CH CH C CH 1 heptyl 1 octyl and the like.

The term alkenyl refers to linear or branched chain monovalent hydrocarbon radical of two to twelve carbon atoms with at least one site of unsaturation i.e. a carbon carbon spdouble bond wherein the alkenyl radical may be optionally substituted independently with one or more substituents described herein and includes radicals having cis and trans orientations or alternatively E and Z orientations. Examples include but are not limited to ethylenyl or vinyl CH CH allyl CHCH CH and the like.

The term alkynyl refers to a linear or branched monovalent hydrocarbon radical of two to twelve carbon atoms with at least one site of unsaturation i.e. a carbon carbon sp triple bond wherein the alkynyl radical may be optionally substituted independently with one or more substituents described herein. Examples include but are not limited to ethynyl C CH propynyl propargyl CHC CH and the like.

The terms carbocycle carbocyclyl carbocyclic ring and cycloalkyl refer to a monovalent non aromatic saturated or partially unsaturated ring having 3 to 12 carbon atoms as a monocyclic ring or 7 to 12 carbon atoms as a bicyclic ring. Bicyclic carbocycles having 7 to 12 atoms can be arranged for example as a bicyclo 4 5 5 5 5 6 or 6 6 system and bicyclic carbocycles having 9 or 10 ring atoms can be arranged as a bicyclo 5 6 or 6 6 system or as bridged systems such as bicyclo 2.2.1 heptane bicyclo 2.2.2 octane and bicyclo 3.2.2 nonane. Examples of monocyclic carbocycles include but are not limited to cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl 1 cyclopent 1 enyl 1 cyclopent 2 enyl 1 cyclopent 3 enyl cyclohexyl 1 cyclohex 1 enyl 1 cyclohex 2 enyl 1 cyclohex 3 enyl cyclohexadienyl cycloheptyl cyclooctyl cyclononyl cyclodecyl cycloundecyl cyclododecyl and the like.

The terms heterocycle heterocyclyl and heterocyclic ring are used interchangeably herein and refer to a saturated or a partially unsaturated i.e. having one or more double and or triple bonds within the ring carbocyclic radical of 3 to 20 ring atoms in which at least one ring atom is a heteroatom selected from nitrogen oxygen and sulfur the remaining ring atoms being C where one or more ring atoms is optionally substituted independently with one or more substituents described below. A heterocycle may be a monocycle having 3 to 7 ring members 2 to 6 carbon atoms and 1 to 4 heteroatoms selected from N O P and S or a bicycle having 7 to 10 ring members 4 to 9 carbon atoms and 1 to 6 heteroatoms selected from N O P and S for example a bicyclo 4 5 5 5 5 6 or 6 6 system. Heterocycles are described in Paquette Leo A. Principles of Modern Heterocyclic Chemistry W. A. Benjamin New York 1968 particularly Chapters 1 3 4 6 7 and 9 The Chemistry of Heterocyclic Compounds A series of Monographs John Wiley Sons New York 1950 to present in particular Volumes 13 14 16 19 and 28 and J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1960 82 5566. The term heterocycle includes heterocycloalkoxy. Heterocyclyl also includes radicals where heterocycle radicals are fused with a saturated partially unsaturated ring or aromatic carbocyclic or heterocyclic ring. Examples of heterocyclic rings include but are not limited to pyrrolidinyl tetrahydrofuranyl dihydrofuranyl tetrahydrothienyl tetrahydropyranyl dihydropyranyl tetrahydrothiopyranyl piperidino morpholino thiomorpholino thioxanyl piperazinyl homopiperazinyl azetidinyl oxetanyl thietanyl homopiperidinyl oxepanyl thiepanyl oxazepinyl diazepinyl thiazepinyl 2 pyrrolinyl 3 pyrrolinyl indolinyl 2H pyranyl 4H pyranyl dioxanyl 1 3 dioxolanyl pyrazolinyl dithianyl dithiolanyl dihydropyranyl dihydrothienyl dihydrofuranyl pyrazolidinylimidazolinyl imidazolidinyl 3 azabicyco 3.1.0 hexanyl 3 azabicyclo 4.1.0 heptanyl azabicyclo 2.2.2 hexanyl 3H indolyl quinolizinyl and N pyridyl ureas. Spiro moieties are also included within the scope of this definition. Examples of a heterocyclic group wherein 2 ring carbon atoms are substituted with oxo O moieties are pyrimidinonyl and 1 1 dioxo thiomorpholinyl. The heterocycle groups herein are optionally substituted independently with one or more substituents described herein.

 Aryl means a monovalent aromatic hydrocarbon radical of 6 20 carbon atoms derived by the removal of one hydrogen atom from a single carbon atom of a parent aromatic ring system. Some aryl groups are represented in the exemplary structures as Ar . Aryl includes bicyclic radicals comprising an aromatic ring fused to a saturated partially unsaturated ring or aromatic carbocyclic or heterocyclic ring. Typical aryl groups include but are not limited to radicals derived from benzene phenyl substituted benzenes naphthalene anthracene biphenyl indenyl indanyl 1 2 dihydronapthalene 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronapthyl and the like. Aryl groups are optionally substituted independently with one or more substituents described herein.

The term heteroaryl refers to a monovalent aromatic radical of 5 6 or 7 membered rings and includes fused ring systems at least one of which is aromatic of 5 20 atoms containing one or more heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen oxygen and sulfur. Examples of heteroaryl groups are pyridinyl including for example 2 hydroxypyridinyl imidazolyl imidazopyridinyl pyrimidinyl including for example 4 hydroxypyrimidinyl pyrazolyl triazolyl pyrazinyl tetrazolyl furyl thienyl isoxazolyl thiazolyl oxazolyl isothiazolyl pyrrolyl quinolinyl isoquinolinyl indolyl benzimidazolyl benzofuranyl cinnolinyl indazolyl indolizinyl phthalazinyl pyridazinyl triazinyl isoindolyl pteridinyl purinyl oxadiazolyl triazolyl thiadiazolyl thiadiazolyl furazanyl benzofurazanyl benzothiophenyl benzothiazolyl benzoxazolyl quinazolinyl quinoxalinyl naphthyridinyl and furopyridinyl. Heteroaryl groups are optionally substituted independently with one or more substituents described herein.

The heterocycle or heteroaryl groups may be carbon carbon linked nitrogen nitrogen linked or oxygen oxygen linked attached where such is possible. By way of example and not limitation carbon bonded heterocycles or heteroaryls are bonded at position 2 3 4 5 or 6 of a pyridine position 3 4 5 or 6 of a pyridazine position 2 4 5 or 6 of a pyrimidine position 2 3 5 or 6 of a pyrazine position 2 3 4 or 5 of a furan tetrahydrofuran thiofuran thiophene pyrrole or tetrahydropyrrole position 2 4 or 5 of an oxazole imidazole or thiazole position 3 4 or 5 of an isoxazole pyrazole or isothiazole position 2 or 3 of an aziridine position 2 3 or 4 of an azetidine position 2 3 4 5 6 7 or 8 of a quinoline or position 1 3 4 5 6 7 or 8 of an isoquinoline.

By way of example and not limitation nitrogen bonded heterocycles or heteroaryls are bonded at position 1 of an aziridine azetidine pyrrole pyrrolidine 2 pyrroline 3 pyrroline imidazole imidazolidine 2 imidazoline 3 imidazoline pyrazole pyrazoline 2 pyrazoline 3 pyrazoline piperidine piperazine indole indoline 1H indazole position 2 of a isoindole or isoindoline position 4 of a morpholine and position 9 of a carbazole or carboline.

 Carbon linked monocyclic heteroaryl refers to a five or six membered unsubstituted or substituted monocyclic heteroaryl radical which contains 1 2 3 or 4 ring heteroatoms independently selected from N O and S. The carbon linked monocyclic heteroaryl is attached to the C 2 position of the pyrimidine ring according to Formulas I at any carbon atom of the monocyclic heteroaryl Rgroup. Carbon linked monocyclic heteroaryl radicals include but are not limited to 2 pyridyl 3 pyridyl 4 pyridyl 3 isoxazolyl 4 isoxazolyl 5 isoxazolyl 2 imidazolyl 4 imidazolyl 3 pyrazolyl 4 pyrazolyl 2 pyrrolyl 3 pyrrolyl 2 thiazolyl 4 thiazolyl 5 thiazolyl 3 pyridazinyl 4 pyridazinyl 5 pyridazinyl 2 pyrimidinyl 5 pyrimidinyl 6 pyrimidinyl 2 pyrazinyl 2 oxazolyl 4 oxazolyl 5 oxazolyl 2 furanyl 3 furanyl 2 thienyl 3 thienyl 3 triazolyl 1 triazolyl 5 tetrazolyl 1 tetrazolyl and 2 tetrazolyl. Carbon linked monocyclic heteroaryls are optionally substituted independently with one or more substituents described herein.

 Carbon linked fused bicyclic C Cheterocyclyl and carbon linked fused bicyclic C Cheteroaryl containing one or more heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen oxygen and sulfur differ only by their aromatic character and have two rings fused together i.e. share a common bond. Carbon linked fused bicyclic heterocyclyl and heteroaryl radicals are attached to the C 2 position of the pyrimidine ring according to Formulas I at any carbon atom of the fused bicyclic C Cheterocyclyl or fused bicyclic C Cheteroaryl group Rgroup. Carbon linked fused bicyclic heterocyclyl and heteroaryl radicals include but are not limited to 1H indazole 1H indole indolin 2 one 1 indolin 1 yl ethanone 1H benzo d 1 2 3 triazole 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridine 1H pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidine 1H benzo d imidazole 1H benzo d imidazol 2 3H one 1H pyrazolo 3 4 c pyridine 1H pyrrolo 2 3 c pyridine 3H imidazo 4 5 c pyridine 7H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidine 7H purine 1H pyrazolo 4 3 d pyrimidine 5H pyrrolo 3 2 d pyrimidine 2 amino 1H purin 6 9H one quinoline quinazoline quinoxaline isoquinoline isoquinolin 1 2H one 3 4 dihydroisoquinolin 1 2H one 3 4 dihydroquinolin 2 1H one quinazolin 2 1H one quinoxalin 2 1H one 1 8 naphthyridine pyrido 3 4 d pyrimidine and pyrido 3 2 b pyrazine. Fused bicyclic heterocycles and fused bicyclic heteroaryls are optionally substituted independently with one or more substituents described herein.

The substituent groups that alkyl alkenyl alkynyl carbocyclyl heterocyclyl aryl heteroaryl fused bicyclic C Cheterocyclyl and fused bicyclic C Cheteroaryl are optionally substituted with include F Cl Br I CN CF NO oxo R C Y R C Y OR C Y NRR CRR NRR CRR OR NRR NRC Y R NRC Y OR NRC Y NRR NRSOR NR OR OC Y R OC Y OR OC Y NRR OS O OR OP Y OR OR OP OR OR SR S O R S O R S O NRR S O OR S O OR SC Y R SC Y OR SC Y NRR C Coptionally substituted alkyl C Coptionally substituted alkenyl C Coptionally substituted alkynyl C Coptionally substituted carbocyclyl C Coptionally substituted heterocyclyl C Coptionally substituted aryl C Coptionally substituted heteroaryl CRR NRC O CRR NRR and CRR NRR

A metabolite is a product produced through metabolism in the body of a specified compound or salt thereof. Metabolites of a compound may be identified using routine techniques known in the art and their activities determined using tests such as those described herein. Such products may result for example from the oxidation reduction hydrolysis amidation deamidation esterification deesterification enzymatic cleavage and the like of the administered compound. Accordingly the invention includes metabolites of compounds of the invention including compounds produced by a process comprising contacting a compound of this invention with a mammal for a period of time sufficient to yield a metabolic product thereof.

The term package insert is used to refer to instructions customarily included in commercial packages of therapeutic products that contain information about the indications usage dosage administration contraindications and or warnings concerning the use of such therapeutic products.

The phrase pharmaceutically acceptable salt as used herein refers to pharmaceutically acceptable organic or inorganic salts of a compound of the invention. Exemplary salts include but are not limited to sulfate citrate acetate oxalate chloride bromide iodide nitrate bisulfate phosphate acid phosphate isonicotinate lactate salicylate acid citrate tartrate oleate tannate pantothenate bitartrate ascorbate succinate maleate gentisinate fumarate gluconate glucuronate saccharate formate benzoate glutamate methanesulfonate mesylate ethanesulfonate benzenesulfonate p toluenesulfonate and pamoate i.e. 1 1 methylene bis 2 hydroxy 3 naphthoate salts. A pharmaceutically acceptable salt may involve the inclusion of another molecule such as an acetate ion a succinate ion or other counter ion. The counter ion may be any organic or inorganic moiety that stabilizes the charge on the parent compound. Furthermore a pharmaceutically acceptable salt may have more than one charged atom in its structure. Instances where multiple charged atoms are part of the pharmaceutically acceptable salt can have multiple counter ions. Hence a pharmaceutically acceptable salt can have one or more charged atoms and or one or more counter ion.

If the compound of the invention is a base the desired pharmaceutically acceptable salt may be prepared by any suitable method available in the art for example treatment of the free base with an inorganic acid such as hydrochloric acid hydrobromic acid sulfuric acid nitric acid methanesulfonic acid phosphoric acid and the like or with an organic acid such as acetic acid maleic acid succinic acid mandelic acid fumaric acid malonic acid pyruvic acid oxalic acid glycolic acid salicylic acid a pyranosidyl acid such as glucuronic acid or galacturonic acid an alpha hydroxy acid such as citric acid or tartaric acid an amino acid such as aspartic acid or glutamic acid an aromatic acid such as benzoic acid or cinnamic acid a sulfonic acid such as p toluenesulfonic acid or ethanesulfonic acid or the like. Acids which are generally considered suitable for the formation of pharmaceutically useful or acceptable salts from basic pharmaceutical compounds are discussed for example by P. Stahl et al Camille G. eds. Handbook of Pharmaceutical Salts. Properties Selection and Use. 2002 Zurich Wiley VCH S. Berge et al Journal of Pharmaceutical Sciences 1977 66 1 1 19 P. Gould International J. of Pharmaceutics 1986 33 201 217 Anderson et al The Practice of Medicinal Chemistry 1996 Academic Press New York Remington s Pharmaceutical Sciences 18ed. 1995 Mack Publishing Co. Easton Pa. and in The Orange Book Food Drug Administration Washington D.C. on their website . These disclosures are incorporated herein by reference thereto.

If the compound of the invention is an acid the desired pharmaceutically acceptable salt may be prepared by any suitable method for example treatment of the free acid with an inorganic or organic base such as an amine primary secondary or tertiary an alkali metal hydroxide or alkaline earth metal hydroxide or the like. Illustrative examples of suitable salts include but are not limited to organic salts derived from amino acids such as glycine and arginine ammonia primary secondary and tertiary amines and cyclic amines such as piperidine morpholine and piperazine and inorganic salts derived from sodium calcium potassium magnesium manganese iron copper zinc aluminum and lithium.

The phrase pharmaceutically acceptable indicates that the substance or composition must be compatible chemically and or toxicologically with the other ingredients comprising a formulation and or the mammal being treated therewith.

The term synergistic as used herein refers to a therapeutic combination which is more effective than the additive effects of the two or more single agents. Determination of a synergistic interaction between a Formula I compound and one or more chemotherapeutic agent may be based on the results obtained from the assays described herein. The results of these assays are analyzed using the Chou and Talalay combination method and Dose Effect Analysis with CalcuSyn software in order to obtain a Combination Index Chou and Talalay Trends Pharmacol. Sci. 4 450 454 Chou T. C. 2006 Pharmacological Reviews 68 3 621 681 Chou and Talalay 1984 Adv. Enzyme Regul. 22 27 55 . The combinations provided by this invention have been evaluated in several assay systems and the data can be analyzed utilizing a standard program for quantifying synergism additivism and antagonism among anticancer agents. An exemplary program utilized is described by Chou and Talalay in New Avenues in Developmental Cancer Chemotherapy Academic Press 1987 Chapter 2. Combination Index values less than 0.8 indicates synergy values greater than 1.2 indicate antagonism and values between 0.8 to 1.2 indicate additive effects. The combination therapy may provide synergy and prove synergistic i.e. the effect achieved when the active ingredients used together is greater than the sum of the effects that results from using the compounds separately. A synergistic effect may be attained when the active ingredients are 1 co formulated and administered or delivered simultaneously in a combined unit dosage formulation 2 delivered by alternation or in parallel as separate formulations or 3 by some other regimen. When delivered in alternation therapy a synergistic effect may be attained when the compounds are administered or delivered sequentially e.g. by different injections in separate syringes. In general during alternation therapy an effective dosage of each active ingredient is administered sequentially i.e. serially whereas in combination therapy effective dosages of two or more active ingredients are administered together.

 Carriers as used herein include pharmaceutically acceptable carriers excipients or stabilizers which are nontoxic to the cell or mammal being exposed thereto at the dosages and concentrations employed. Often the physiologically acceptable carrier is an aqueous pH buffered solution. Examples of physiologically acceptable carriers include buffers such as phosphate citrate and other organic acids antioxidants including ascorbic acid low molecular weight less than about 10 residues polypeptide proteins such as serum albumin gelatin or immunoglobulins hydrophilic polymers such as polyvinylpyrrolidone amino acids such as glycine glutamine asparagine arginine or lysine monosaccharides disaccharides and other carbohydrates including glucose mannose or dextrins chelating agents such as EDTA sugar alcohols such as mannitol or sorbitol salt forming counterions such as sodium and or nonionic surfactants such as TWEEN . polyethylene glycol PEG and PLURONICS .

The term therapeutically effective amount refers to an amount of the therapeutic combination effective to treat a disease or disorder in a subject or mammal. In the case of cancer the therapeutically effective amount of the antagonist may reduce the number of cancer cells reduce the tumor size inhibit i.e. slow to some extent and preferably stop cancer cell infiltration into peripheral organs inhibit i.e. slow to some extent and preferably stop tumor metastasis inhibit to some extent tumor growth and or relieve to some extent one or more of the symptoms associated with the cancer. See the definition herein of treating . To the extent the antagonist may prevent growth and or kill existing cancer cells it may be cytostatic and or cytotoxic.

A growth inhibitory amount of the therapeutic combination is an amount capable of inhibiting the growth of a cell especially tumor e.g. cancer cell either in vitro or in vivo. A growth inhibitory amount of the therapeutic combination for purposes of inhibiting neoplastic cell growth may be determined empirically and in a routine manner.

A cytotoxic amount of the therapeutic combination is an amount capable of causing the destruction of a cell especially tumor e.g. cancer cell either in vitro or in vivo.

The terms cancer and cancerous refer to or describe the physiological condition in mammals that is typically characterized by unregulated increase in cell number generally referred to herein as cell growth which can be due to abnormal increase in cell proliferation abnormal decrease of cell death or an imbalance of amounts of cell proliferation and cell death. Examples of cancer include but are not limited to hematopoietic cancers or blood related cancers such as lymphoma leukemia myeloma or lymphoid malignancies but also cancers of the spleen and cancers of the lymph nodes.

The term hyperproliferative refers to disorders that are associated with some degree of abnormal cell proliferation. In one embodiment a hyperproliferative disorder is cancer.

 Tumor as used herein refers to all neoplastic cell growth and proliferation whether malignant or benign and all pre cancerous and cancerous cells and tissues. The terms cancer cancerous cell proliferative disorder proliferative disorder and tumor are not mutually exclusive as referred to herein.

The term non Hodgkin s lymphoma or NHL as used herein refers to a cancer of the lymphatic system other than Hodgkin s lymphomas. Hodgkin s lymphomas can generally be distinguished from non Hodgkin s lymphomas by the presence of Reed Sternberg cells in Hodgkin s lymphomas and the absence of said cells in non Hodgkin s lymphomas. Examples of non Hodgkin s lymphomas encompassed by the term as used herein include any that would be identified as such by one skilled in the art e.g. an oncologist or pathologist in accordance with classification schemes known in the art such as the Revised European American Lymphoma REAL scheme as described in Color Atlas of Clinical Hematology Third Edition A. Victor Hoffbrand and John E. Pettit eds. Harcourt Publishers Limited 2000 see in particular FIG. 11.57 11.58 and or 11.59 . More specific examples include but are not limited to relapsed or refractory NHL front line low grade NHL Stage III IV NHL chemotherapy resistant NHL precursor B lymphoblastic leukemia and or lymphoma small lymphocytic lymphoma B cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia and or prolymphocytic leukemia and or small lymphocytic lymphoma hematopoietic prolymphocytic lymphoma immunocytoma and or lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma marginal zone B cell lymphoma splenic marginal zone lymphoma extranodal marginal zone MALT lymphoma nodal marginal zone lymphoma hairy cell leukemia plasmacytoma and or plasma cell myeloma low grade follicular lymphoma intermediate grade follicular NHL mantle cell lymphoma follicle center lymphoma follicular intermediate grade diffuse NHL diffuse large hematopoietic lymphoma aggressive NHL including aggressive front line NHL and aggressive relapsed NHL NHL relapsing after or refractory to autologous stem cell transplantation primary mediastinal large hematopoietic lymphoma primary effusion lymphoma high grade immunoblastic NHL high grade lymphoblastic NHL high grade small non cleaved cell NHL bulky disease NHL Burkitt s lymphoma precursor peripheral T cell lymphoblastic leukemia and or lymphoma adult T cell lymphoma and or leukemia T cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia and or prolymphocytic leukemia large granular lymphocytic leukemia mycosis fungoides and or Sezary syndrome extranodal natural killer T cell nasal type lymphoma enteropathy type T cell lymphoma hepatosplenic T cell lymphoma subcutaneous panniculitis like T cell lymphoma skin cutaneous lymphomas anaplastic large cell lymphoma angiocentric lymphoma intestinal T cell lymphoma peripheral T cell not otherwise specified lymphoma and angioimmunoblastic T cell lymphoma.

Non Hodgkin s lymphoma thus includes hematopoietic lymphoma B cell lymphoma diffuse large B cell lymphoma follicular lymphoma small lymphocytic lymphoma malignant lymphoma malignant T cell lymphoma anaplastic large cell lymphoma and mucosal associated lymphoid tissue lymphoma.

The present invention includes therapeutic combinations including Formula I compounds which have the structures 

Ris selected from H F Cl Br I CN CRR NRR C RR NRC Y R CRR NRS O R CRR OR CRR S O R CRR S O NRR C OR RR C Y R C Y OR C Y NRR C Y NROR C O NRS O R C O NR CRR NRR NO NRC Y R NRC Y OR NRC Y NRR NRS O R NRSONRR SR S O R S O NRR SC Y R SC Y OR C Calkyl C Calkenyl C Calkynyl C Ccarbocyclyl C Cheterocyclyl C Caryl and C Cheteroaryl 

Ris selected from H F Cl Br I CN CF NO C Y R C Y OR C Y NRR CRR NRR CRR OR CRR NRC O CRR NRR NRC Y R NRC Y OR NRC Y NRR NRSOR OR OC Y R OC Y OR OC Y NRR OS O OR OP Y OR OR OP OR OR SR S O R S O R S O NRR S O OR S O OR SC Y R SC Y OR SC Y NRR C Calkyl C Calkenyl C Calkynyl C Ccarbocyclyl C Cheterocyclyl C Caryl and C Cheteroaryl 

Ris a carbon linked monocyclic heteroaryl a carbon linked fused bicyclic C Cheterocyclyl or a carbon linked fused bicyclic C Cheteroaryl where the monocyclic heteroaryl fused bicyclic C Cheterocyclyl and fused bicyclic C Cheteroaryl are optionally substituted with one or more groups selected from F Cl Br I CN NRR OR C O R NRC O R N C O R NRC O NRR NRS O R C O OR C O NRR C Calkyl and C Calkyl OR 

R Rand Rare independently H C Calkyl C Calkenyl C Calkynyl C Ccarbocyclyl C Cheterocyclyl C Caryl or C Cheteroaryl 

or Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen to which they are attached form a C Cheterocyclic ring optionally substituted with one or more groups independently selected from oxo CH OR NRR CF F Cl Br I SOR C O R NRC Y R NRS O R C Y NRR C Calkyl C Calkenyl C Calkynyl C Ccarbocyclyl C Cheterocyclyl C Caryl and C Cheteroaryl 

or Rand Rtogether with the atoms to which they are attached form a saturated or partially unsaturated C Ccarbocyclic ring 

where said alkyl alkenyl alkynyl carbocyclyl heterocyclyl aryl and heteroaryl are optionally substituted with one or more groups independently selected from F Cl Br I CN CF NO oxo R C Y R C Y OR C Y NRR CRR NRR CRR OR NRR NRC Y R NRC Y OR NRC Y NRR CRR NRSOR NR OR OC Y R OC Y OR OC Y NRR OS O OR OP Y OR OR OP OR OR SR S O R S O R S O NRR S O OR S O OR SC Y R SC Y OR SC Y NRR C Calkyl C Calkenyl C Calkynyl C Ccarbocyclyl C Cheterocyclyl C Caryl and C Cheteroaryl 

Exemplary embodiments of Formula I compounds include wherein Ris CRR NRRwhere m is 1 and Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen to which they are attached form an optionally substituted C Cheterocyclic ring. The C Cheterocyclic ring may be piperazinyl optionally substituted with one or more groups selected from NRR CF F Cl Br I SOR C O R NRC Y R NRS O R C Y NRR and C Calkyl.

Exemplary embodiments of Formula I compounds include wherein Ris H CH C Ccarbocyclyl C Cheterocyclyl C Caryl or C Cheteroaryl. The C Cheteroaryl may be a monocyclic heteroaryl group selected from 2 pyridyl 3 pyridyl 4 pyridyl 3 isoxazolyl 4 isoxazolyl 5 isoxazolyl 2 imidazolyl 4 imidazolyl 3 pyrazolyl 4 pyrazolyl 2 pyrrolyl 3 pyrrolyl 2 thiazolyl 4 thiazolyl 5 thiazolyl 3 pyridazinyl 4 pyridazinyl 5 pyridazinyl 2 pyrimidinyl 5 pyrimidinyl 6 pyrimidinyl 2 pyrazinyl 2 oxazolyl 4 oxazolyl 5 oxazolyl 2 furanyl 3 furanyl 2 thienyl 3 thienyl 3 triazolyl 1 triazolyl 5 tetrazolyl 1 tetrazolyl and 2 tetrazolyl.

Exemplary embodiments of Formula I compounds include wherein Ris a bicyclic heteroaryl group selected from 1H indazole 1H indole indolin 2 one 1 indolin 1 yl ethanone 1H benzo d 1 2 3 triazole 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridine 1H pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidine 1H benzo d imidazole 1H benzo d imidazol 2 3H one 1H pyrazolo 3 4 c pyridine 1H pyrrolo 2 3 c pyridine 3H imidazo 4 5 c pyridine 7H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidine 7H purine 1H pyrazolo 4 3 d pyrimidine 5H pyrrolo 3 2 d pyrimidine 2 amino 1H purin 6 9H one quinoline quinazoline quinoxaline isoquinoline isoquinolin 1 2H one 3 4 dihydroisoquinolin 1 2H one 3 4 dihydroquinolin 2 1H one quinazolin 2 1H one quinoxalin 2 1H one 1 8 naphthyridine pyrido 3 4 d pyrimidine and pyrido 3 2 b pyrazine.

An exemplary Formula I compound is named as 4 2 1H indazol 4 yl 6 4 methylsulfonyl piperazin 1 yl methyl thieno 3 2 d pyrimidin 4 yl morpholine registered as CAS Reg. No. 957054 30 7 described and claimed in US 2008 0076768 disclosed in Folkes et al 2008 Jour. of Med. Chem. 51 18 5522 5532 Belvin et al American Association for Cancer Research Annual Meeting 2008 99th April 15 Abstract 4004 Folkes et al American Association for Cancer Research Annual Meeting 2008 99th April 14 Abstract LB 146 Friedman et al American Association for Cancer Research Annual Meeting 2008 99th April 14 Abstract LB 110 and has Formula Ia 

Another exemplary Formula I compound is named as S 1 4 2 2 aminopyrimidin 5 yl 7 methyl 4 morpholinothieno 3 2 d pyrimidin 6 yl methyl piperazin 1 yl 2 hydroxypropan 1 one disclosed and claimed in US 2008 0242665 and has Formula Ib 

The Formula I compounds may be synthesized by synthetic routes that include processes analogous to those well known in the chemical arts. Starting materials are generally available from commercial sources such as Aldrich Chemicals Milwaukee Wis. or are readily prepared using methods well known to those skilled in the art e.g. prepared by methods generally described in Louis F. Fieser and Mary Fieser Reagents for Organic Synthesis v. 1 19 Wiley N.Y. 1967 1999 ed. or Beilsteins Handbuch der organischen Chemie 4 Aufl. ed. Springer Verlag Berlin including supplements also available via the Beilstein online database .

Formula I compounds may be prepared using procedures to prepare other thiophenes and pyrimidines U.S. Pat. No. 6 608 053 U.S. Pat. No. 6 492 383 U.S. Pat. No. 6 232 320 U.S. Pat. No. 6 187 777 U.S. Pat. No. 3 763 156 U.S. Pat. No. 3 661 908 U.S. Pat. No. 3 475 429 U.S. Pat. No. 5 075 305 US 2003 220365 GB 1393161 WO 93 13664 and other heterocycles which are described in Comprehensive Heterocyclic Chemistry Editors Katritzky and Rees Pergamon Press 1984.

Formula I compounds may be converted into a pharmaceutically acceptable salt and a salt may be converted into the free base compound by conventional methods. Formula I compounds may be therapeutically effective as a free base or as a pharmaceutically acceptable salt depending on the desired properties such as solubility dissolution hygroscopic nature and pharmacokinetics. Examples of pharmaceutically acceptable salts include salts with inorganic acids such as hydrochloric acid hydrobromic acid hydroiodic acid sulphuric acid nitric acid and phosphoric acid and organic acids such as methanesulfonic acid benzenesulphonic acid formic acid acetic acid trifluoroacetic acid propionic acid oxalic acid malonic acid succinic acid fumaric acid maleic acid lactic acid malic acid tartaric acid citric acid ethanesulfonic acid aspartic acid and glutamic acid. The salt may be a mesylate a hydrochloride a phosphate a benzenesulfonate or a sulfate. Salts may be mono salts or bis salts. For example the mesylate salt may be the mono mesylate or the bis mesylate.

Protection of functional groups e.g. primary or secondary amine of intermediates may be necessary in preparing Formula I compounds. The need for such protection will vary depending on the nature of the remote functionality and the conditions of the preparation methods. Suitable amino protecting groups include acetyl trifluoroacetyl t butoxycarbonyl BOC benzyloxycarbonyl CBz and 9 fluorenylmethyleneoxycarbonyl Fmoc . The need for such protection is readily determined by one skilled in the art. For a general description of protecting groups and their use see T. W. Greene Protective Groups in Organic Synthesis John Wiley Sons New York 1991.

For illustrative purposes Schemes 1 7 show general methods for preparing the compounds of the present invention as well as key intermediates. For a more detailed description of the individual reaction steps see the Examples section below. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that other synthetic routes may be used to synthesize the inventive compounds. Although specific starting materials and reagents are depicted in the Schemes and discussed below other starting materials and reagents can be easily substituted to provide a variety of derivatives and or reaction conditions. In addition many of the compounds prepared by the methods described below can be further modified in light of this disclosure using conventional chemistry well known to those skilled in the art.

Scheme 1 shows a general method for preparation of the thienopyrimidine intermediates 53 from 2 carboxyester 3 amino thiophene reagents 51 wherein Hal is Cl Br or I and R R and Rare as defined for Formula I compounds or precursors or prodrugs thereto.

Scheme 2 shows a general method for selectively displacing a 4 halide from bis halo thienopyrimidine intermediates 54 with morpholine under basic conditions in an organic solvent to prepare 2 halo 4 morpholino thienopyrimidine compounds 55 wherein Hal is Cl Br or I and Rand Rare as defined for Formula I compounds or precursors or prodrugs thereto.

Scheme 3 shows a general method for derivatizing the 6 position of 2 halo 4 morpholino 6 hydrogen thienopyrimidine compounds 56 where Ris H. Treating 56 with a lithiating reagent to remove the 6 position proton followed by adding an acylating reagent RC O Z where Z is a leaving group such as halide NHS ester carboxylate or dialkylamino gives 2 halo 4 morpholino 6 acyl thienopyrimidine compounds 57 wherein Hal is Cl Br or I and Rand Rare as defined for Formula I compounds or precursors or prodrugs thereto. An example of RC O Z to prepare 6 formyl compounds R H is N N dimethylformamide DMF .

Scheme 4 shows a general method for Suzuki type coupling of a 2 halo pyrimidine intermediates 58 with a monocyclic heteroaryl fused bicyclic heterocyclyl or fused bicyclic heteroaryl boronate acid R H or ester R alkyl reagent to prepare the 2 substituted Hy 4 morpholino thienopyrimidine compounds 59 of Formula I wherein Hal is Cl Br or I and Rand Rare as defined for Formula I compounds or precursors or prodrugs thereto. For reviews of the Suzuki reaction see Miyaura et al. 1995 Chem. Rev. 95 2457 2483 Suzuki A. 1999 J. Organomet. Chem. 576 147 168 Suzuki A. in Metal Catalyzed Cross Coupling Reactions Diederich F. Stang P. J. Eds. VCH Weinheim Del. 1998 pp 49 97. The palladium catalyst may be any that is typically used for Suzuki type cross couplings such as PdCl PPh Pd PPh Pd OAc PdCl dppf DCM Pd dba Pt Bu Owens et al 2003 Bioorganic Med. Chem. Letters 13 4143 4145 Molander et al 2002 Organic Letters 4 11 1867 1870 U.S. Pat. No. 6 448 433 .

Scheme 5 shows a general method for the synthesis of alkynes 61 which can be used to prepare alkynylated derivatives of compounds 63. Propargylic amines 61 may be prepared by reaction of propargyl bromide 60 with an amine of the formula RRNH wherein Rand Rare independently selected from H alkyl aryl and heteroaryl or Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen to which they are attached form a heterocyclic ring in the presence of an appropriate base CsCOor the like . For reviews of alkynyl amines and related syntheses see Booker Milbum K. I. 1995 2 1039 1074 and Viehe H. G. 1967 Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. Eng. 6 9 767 778. Alkynes 61 may subsequently be reacted with intermediates 62 X bromo or iodo via Sonogashira coupling to provide compounds 63 wherein Rand Rare as defined for Formula I compounds or precursors or prodrugs thereto.

Scheme 6 shows a general method for the synthesis of alkynes 65 which can be used to prepare alkynylated derivatives of compounds 66. Gem dialkyl propargylic amines 65 may be prepared using methods described by Zaragoza et al 2004 J. Med. Chem. 47 2833. According to Scheme 6 gem dialkyl chloride 64 Rand Rare independently methyl ethyl or other alkyl group can be reacted with an amine of the formula RRNH wherein Rand Rare independently selected from H alkyl aryl and heteroaryl or Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen to which they are attached form a heterocyclic ring in the presence of CuCl and an appropriate base e.g. TEA or the like to provide the alkyne 65. Alkyne 65 can be reacted with intermediates 62 via Sonogashira coupling to provide compounds 66 wherein Rand Rare as defined for Formula I compounds or precursors or prodrugs thereto.

Scheme 7 shows a general scheme for the synthesis of alkynes 68 which can be used to prepare alkynylated derivatives of compounds 69. But 3 yn 1 amines 68 wherein Rand Rare independently H alkyl aryl heteroaryl or Rand Rtogether with the carbon atom to which they are attached form a carbocyclic or heterocyclic ring can be prepared from reaction of alkynes 67 LG tosylate or other leaving group with an amine of the formula RRNH wherein Rand Rare independently selected from H alkyl aryl and heteroaryl or Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen to which they are attached form a heterocyclic ring using the protocol described by Olomucki M. et al 1960 Ann. Chim. 5 845. Alkynes 68 can subsequently be reacted with intermediates 62 via Sonogashira coupling according to the descriptions provided for Schemes 5 and 6 to provide compounds 69 respectively wherein Rand Rare as defined for Formula I compounds or precursors or prodrugs thereto.

A pharmaceutically acceptable salt of a thienopyrimidine compound of Formula I may be prepared using conventional techniques. Typically the process comprises treating the thienopyrimidine of Formula I as defined above with a suitable acid in a suitable solvent.

In the process of the invention as defined above both the amination step and the Pd mediated cross coupling step take place under conventional conditions. The palladium catalyst may be any that is typically used for Suzuki type cross couplings such as PdCl PPh . The reducing agent is typically a borohydride such as NaBH OAc NaBHor NaCNBH.

Certain chemotherapeutic agents have demonstrated surprising and unexpected properties in combination with Formula I compounds in inhibiting cellular proliferation in vitro and in vivo. Such chemotherapeutic agents include dexamethasone thioTEPA doxorubicin vincristine rituximab cyclophosphamide prednisone melphalan lenalidomide bortezomib rapamycin and cytarabine.

Dexamethasone is a potent glucocorticoid steroid hormone with anti inflammatory and immunosuppressant activity. In oncology dexamethasone is given to cancer patients undergoing chemotherapy to counteract certain side effects of their antitumor treatment. Dexamethasone can augment the antiemetic effect of 5 HTreceptor antagonists like ondansetron. Dexamethasone is also used in certain hematological malignancies especially in the treatment of multiple myeloma in which dexamethasone is given alone or together with thalidomide thal dex or a combination of Adriamycin doxorubicin and vincristine VAD . In brain tumours primary or metastatic dexamethasone is used to counteract the development of edema which could eventually compress other brain structures. Dexamethasone is named as 8S 9R 10S 11S 13S 14S 16R 17R 9 fluoro 11 17 dihydroxy 17 2 hydroxyacetyl 10 13 16 trimethyl 6 7 8 11 12 14 15 16 octahydrocyclopenta a phenanthren 3 one CAS Reg. No. 50 02 2 and has the structure 

thioTEPA tespa thiophosphoamide tespamin tspa tifosyl THIOPLEX is an alkylating chemotherapeutic agent used to treat breast cancer ovarian cancer and bladder cancer Maanen et al 2000 Cancer Treat Rev 26 4 257 68 U.S. Pat. No. 2 670 347 . It is also used as conditioning for bone marrow transplantation ThioTEPA is named as N N N triethylenethiophosphoramide phosphinothioylidynetrisaziridine or 1 1 1 phosphorothioyltriaziridine CAS Reg. No. 52 24 4 and has the structure 

Doxorubicin ADRIAMYCIN hydroxyldaunorubicin is a DNA interacting drug widely used in chemotherapy since the 1960s. It is an anthracycline antibiotic and structurally related to daunomycin which also intercalates DNA. Doxorubicin is commonly used in the treatment of a wide range of cancers. Doxorubicin is named as 8S 10S 10 4 amino 5 hydroxy 6 methyl tetrahydro 2H pyran 2 yloxy 6 8 11 trihydroxy 8 2 hydroxyacetyl 1 methoxy 7 8 9 10 tetrahydrotetracene 5 12 dione CAS Reg. No. 23214 92 8 and has the structure 

Vincristine 22 Oxovincaleukoblastine leurocristine VCR LCR sulfate form Vincristine sulfate Kyocristine ONCOVIN Lilly Vincosid Vincrex is a vinca alkaloid from the Madagascar periwinkle formerly Vinca rosea Johnson et al 1963 Cancer Res. 23 1390 1427 Neuss et al 1964 J. Am. Chem. Soc. 86 1440 . Along with semisynthetic derivatives vindesine and vinorelbine NAVELBINE vincristine inhibits mitosis in metaphase by binding to tubulin and preventing the cell from making spindles necessary to move chromosomes as the cell divides. Vincristine is a chemotherapy drug that is given as a treatment for some types of cancer including leukemia lymphoma breast and lung cancer. Vincristine leurocristine VCR is most effective in treating childhood leukemias and non Hodgkin s lymphomas where vinblastine vincaleukoblastine VLB is used to treat Hodgkin s disease. Vincristine CAS number 57 22 7 has the structure 

Rituximab RITUXAN Genentech Biogen Idec MABTHERA Roche REDITUX CAS Reg. No. 174722 31 7 is a genetically engineered chimeric murine human monoclonal antibody directed against the CD20 antigen. Rituximab is the antibody called C2B8 in U.S. Pat. No. 5 736 137. Rituximab is indicated for the treatment of patients with relapsed or refractory low grade or follicular CD20 positive B cell NHL. Rituximab binds to cell surface CD 20 and results in B cell depletion Cartron et al 2002 Blood 99 754 758 Idusogie et al 2000 J. Immunol. 164 4178 4184 Grillo L pez A J et al 1999 Semin Oncol 26 66 73 U.S. Pat. No. 5 736 137 . RITUXAN U.S. Pat. No. 5 677 180 U.S. Pat. No. 5 736 137 is the most widely used monoclonal antibody in hematopoietic malignancies and is established in widespread clinical practice. RITUXAN first received FDA approval in 1997 for the treatment of relapsed or refractory low grade or follicular CD20 positive B cell non Hodgkin s lymphoma NHL . It was also approved in the European Union under the trade name MabThera in June 1998. In February 2006 RITUXAN also received FDA approval in combination with methotrexate to reduce signs and symptoms in adult patients with moderately to severely active rheumatoid arthritis who have had an inadequate response to one or more TNF antagonist therapies. The amino acid sequence of rituximab antibody also designated C2B8 and exemplary methods for its production via recombinant expression in Chinese Hamster Ovary CHO cells are disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5 736 137.

Cyclophosphamide Cytoxan Neosar Revimmune cyclophosphane B 518 Cycloblastin Cyclostin Endoxan Procytox Sendoxan cytophosphane is a nitrogen mustard alkylating agent from the oxazophorines group used to treat various types of cancer and some autoimmune disorders A Review of Cyclophosphamide D. L. Hill 1975 Charles C. Thomas Springfield 340 pp IARC Monographs 1975 9 135 156 Fraiser et al 1991 Drugs 42 781 795 Colvin OmM. 1999 Curr. Pharmaceut. Design 5 555 560 . Cyclophosphamide is a prodrug converted in the liver to active forms that have chemotherapeutic activity. The main use of cyclophosphamide is together with other chemotherapy agents in the treatment of lymphomas some forms of leukemia and some solid tumors Shanafelt et al 2007 Cancer 109 11 2291 8 Brock N 1996 Cancer 78 3 542 7 . It is a chemotherapy drug that works by slowing or stopping cell growth and by decreasing the immune system response to various diseases.

Cyclophosphamide is named as N N bis 2 chloroethyl 1 3 2 oxazaphosphinan 2 amine 2 oxide N N bis 2 chloroethyl tetrahydro 2H 1 3 2 oxazaphosphorin 2 amine 2 oxide 1 bis 2 chloroethyl amino 1 oxo 2 aza 5 oxaphosphoridin monohydrate bis 2 chloroethyl phosphamide cyclic propanolamide ester or N N bis beta chloroethyl N O propylenephosphoric acid ester diamide including hydrate forms CAS number 50 18 0 and has the structure 

Prednisone Meticorten Sterapred Sterapred DS retrocortine Colisone Cortancyl Dacortin Decortin Deltacortene Deltacortone Deltasone Deltison Di Adreson Encorton Hostacortin Meticorten Orasone Rectodelt Sone or Ultracorten is a synthetic corticosteroid drug U.S. Pat. No. 2 897 216 U.S. Pat. No. 2 837 464 U.S. Pat. No. 3 134 718 U.S. Pat. No. 2 579 479 . Prednisone is a prodrug converted in the liver into prednisolone CAS Reg. No. 50 24 8 an 11 hydroxyl analog and has a mainly glucocorticoid effect. Prednisone may be administered orally or by injection. Prednisone is particularly effective as an immunosuppressant and is used to treat autoimmune diseases inflammatory diseases such as severe asthma allergies poison ivy dermatitis lupus rheumatoid arthritis and Crohn s disease and to prevent and treat rejection in organ transplantation. Prednisone is used to treat cancer including acute lymphoblastic leukemia Non Hodgkin s lymphomas and multiple myeloma. Prednisone is named as 17 hydroxy 17 2 hydroxyacetyl 10 13 dimethyl 7 8 9 10 12 13 14 15 16 17 decahydro 6H cyclopenta a phenanthrene 3 11 dione or 17 21 dihydroxypregna 1 4 diene 3 11 20 trione 1 4 pregnadiene 17alpha 21 diol 3 11 20 trione CAS number 53 03 2 and has the structure 

Melphalan L phenylalanine mustard alanine nitrogen mustard L PAM melfalan L sarcolysine NSC 8806 CB 3025 ALKERAN Glaxo SmithKline Sarcoclorin is a nitrogen mustard alkylating agent type of chemotherapeutic U.S. Pat. No. 3 032 584 U.S. Pat. No. 3 032 585 . Melphalan is used primarily to treat multiple myeloma ovarian cancer and melanoma IARC Monographs 1975 9 167 180 Furner et al 1980 Cancer Treat. Rep. 64 559 574 . Melphalan is named as 2 amino 3 4 bis 2 chloroethyl amino phenyl propanoic acid 4 bis 2 chloroethyl amino L phenylalanine or p di 2 chloroethyl amino L phenylalanine CAS Reg. No. 148 82 3 and has the structure 

Lenalidomide REVLIMID CC5013 Revimid Celgene Inc. is a derivative of thalidomide and introduced in 2004 U.S. Pat. No. 5 635 517 U.S. Pat. No. 6 281 230 to treat both inflammatory disorders and cancers. There are multiple mechanisms of action including a direct anti tumor effect inhibition of the microenvironment support for tumor cells and an immunomodulatory role. In vitro lenalidomide induces tumor cell apoptosis directly and indirectly by inhibition of bone marrow stromal cell support by anti angiogenic and anti osteoclastogenic effects and by immunomodulatory activity. Lenalidomide was initially intended as a treatment for multiple myeloma for which thalidomide is an accepted therapeutic modality but has also shown efficacy in the class of hematological disorders known as myelodysplastic syndromes Richardson et al 2002 Blood 100 3063 Bartlett et al 2004 Nature Rev. 4 314 322 Mitsiades et al 2004 Curr. Opin. Invest. Drugs 5 635 647 Armoiry et al. 2008 J of Clin Pharmacy Therapeutics 33 219 226 List et al 2005 N. Engl. Jour. Med. 352 549 57 . Lenalidomide is named as 3 4 amino 1 oxoisoindolin 2 yl piperidine 2 6 dione 3 4 amino 1 3 dihydro 1 oxo 2H isoindol 2 yl 2 6 piperidinedione 1 oxo 2 2 6 dioxopiperidin 3 yl 4 aminoisoindoline CAS Reg. No. 191732 72 6 and has the structure 

Bortezomib MG 341 PS 341 VELCADE Millenium Pharm. is a boronic acid proteasome inhibitor approved in the US for treating relapsed multiple myeloma and mantle cell lymphoma. WO 96 13266 U.S. Pat. No. 5 780 454 U.S. Pat. No. 6 083 903 U.S. Pat. No. 6 297 217 U.S. Pat. No. 6 617 317 U.S. Pat. No. 6 713 446 U.S. Pat. No. 6 747 150 U.S. Pat. No. 6 958 319 U.S. Pat. No. 7 119 080 . The boron atom in bortezomib binds the catalytic site of the 26S proteasome with high affinity and specificity. In normal cells the proteasome regulates protein expression and function by degradation of ubiquitinylated proteins and also cleanses the cell of abnormal or misfolded proteins. Adams et al 2004 Cancer Invest 22 2 304 11 Bonvini 2007 . Leukemia 21 4 838 42 . Bortezomib is named as 1R 3 methyl 1 2S 3 phenyl 2 pyrazin 2 ylcarbonyl amino propanoylamino butyl boronic acid R 3 methyl 1 S 3 phenyl 2 pyrazine 2 carboxamido propanamido butylboronic acid or 1R 3 methyl 1 2S 1 oxo 3 phenyl 2 pyrazinylcarbonyl amino propyl amino butyl boronic acid CAS Reg. No. 179324 69 7 and has the structure 

Rapamycin sirolimus RAPAMUNE is an immunosuppressant drug used to prevent rejection in organ transplantation and is especially useful in kidney transplants. Rapamycin is a macrolide antibiotic produced by the bacterium in a soil sample obtained from an island called Rapa Nui better known as Easter Island Pritchard D I 2005 . Drug Discovery Today 10 10 688 691 . Rapamycin inhibits the response to interleukin 2 IL 2 and thereby blocks activation of T and hematopoietics. The mode of action of rapamycin is to bind the cytosolic protein FK binding protein 12 FKBP12 . The rapamycin FKBP12 complex inhibits the mammalian target of rapamycin mTOR pathway through directly binding the mTOR Complex1 mTORC1 . mTOR is also called FRAP FKBP rapamycin associated protein or RAFT rapamycin and FKBP target . Rapamycin analogs Rapalogs include Temsirolimus CCI 779 Wyeth Everolimus RAD001 Novartis Deforolimus AP23573 MK 8669 Ariad Merck . Rapamycin is named as 3S 6R 7E 9R 10R 12R 14S 15E 17E 19E 21S 23S 26R 27R 34aS 9 10 12 13 14 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 32 33 34 34a hexadecahydro 9 27 dihydroxy 3 1R 2 1S 3R 4R 4 hydroxy 3 methoxycyclohexyl 1 methylethyl 10 21 dimethoxy 6 8 12 14 20 26 hexamethyl 23 27 epoxy 3H pyrido 2 1 c 1 4 oxaazacyclohentriacontine 1 5 11 28 29 4H 6H 31H pentone CAS Reg. No. 53123 88 9 and has the structure 

Cytarabine cytosine arabinoside Ara C CYTOSAR U Upjohn is used primarily in the treatment of hematological malignancies including acute myeloid leukemia AML and NHL U.S. Pat. No. 3 116 282 Shen et al 1965 J. Org. Chem. 835 Capizzi R. L. 1996 Invest. New Drugs 14 249 256 Grant S. 1998 Adv. Cancer Res. 72 197 233 . Cytarabine is named as 4 amino 1 2R 3S 4S 5R 3 4 dihydroxy 5 hydroxymethyl tetrahydrofuran 2 yl pyrimidin 2 1H one 4 amino 1 beta D arabinofuranosyl 2 1H pyrimidinone 1 beta D arabinofuranosylcytosine CAS Reg. No. 147 94 4 and has the structure 

CHOP is an acronym for a chemotherapy regimen used in the treatment of non Hodgkin lymphoma comprising cyclophosphamide doxorubicin vincristine and prednisone prednisolone Fisher et al 1993 N Engl J Med 328 14 1002 6 . CHOP is commonly administered in cycles of 4 weeks. A common treatment regimen is for at least 6 cycles.

Certain Formula I compounds bind specifically to PI3 kinase isoforms and inhibit the proliferation of tumor cells US 2008 0207611 US 2008 0039459 US 2008 0076768 US 2008 0076758 US 2008 0242665 US 2008 0269210 . Certain exemplary Formula I compounds have PI3K binding activity ICvalues less than 10 nM. Certain Formula I compounds have tumor cell based activity ECvalues less than 100 nM.

Certain exemplary therapeutic combinations of Formula I compounds and chemotherapeutic agents described herein were assayed for in vitro activity against tumor cells Example 15 . Certain Formula I compounds bind the p110 isoform at IC50 less than 1 micromole and show single agent in vivo tumor growth inhibition in mouse xenograft models. Accordingly Formula I compounds may be used to treat a disease or disorder arising from abnormal cell growth function or behavior as single agents or in combination therapy with one or more chemotherapeutic agents.

Mutations in KRAS NRAS BRAF and PIK3CA activate two of the major pathways mediating proliferation and anti apoptotic signaling in cancer cells. As such mutations in these genes might constitute companion diagnostic tests for targeted agents that inhibit key nodes in these pathways since the presence of a mutation may serve as a sign of pathological activation and dependence on a given pathway in a particular tumor. The mutation status for these genes and others in a large panel of cell lines of diverse tissues of origin may yield a correlation with response to selective inhibitors of MEK and PI3 kinase. In addition mutation detection may be conducted on clinical samples consisting of small amounts of heterogeneous fixed tumor tissues which may be analyzed using allele specific Taqman assays for the most prevalent substitutions in KRAS NRAS BRAF and PI3 kinase.

Pharmacodynamic and pharmacokinetic properties of absorption distribution metabolism and excretion ADME were measured for certain exemplary compounds by assays including Caco 2 Permeability Hepatocyte Clearance Cytochrome P450 Inhibition Cytochrome P450 Induction Plasma Protein Binding and hERG channel blockage.

The invention includes a method for determining compounds to be used in combination for the treatment of cancer comprising a administering a therapeutic combination of a compound having Formula I and a chemotherapeutic agent to an in vitro tumor cell line and b measuring a synergistic or non synergistic effect.

The cytotoxic or cytostatic activity of Formula I exemplary compounds was measured by establishing a proliferating mammalian tumor cell line in a cell culture medium adding a Formula I compound culturing the cells for a period from about 6 hours to about 5 days and measuring cell viability Example 15 . Cell based in vitro assays were used to measure viability i.e. proliferation IC cytotoxicity EC and induction of apoptosis caspase activation .

The in vitro potency of the combinations of Formula I compounds with chemotherapeutic agents was measured by the cell proliferation assay of Example 15 the CellTiter Glo Luminescent Cell Viability Assay commercially available from Promega Corp. Madison Wis. This homogeneous assay method is based on the recombinant expression of luciferase U.S. Pat. No. 5 583 024 U.S. Pat. No. 5 674 713 U.S. Pat. No. 5 700 670 and determines the number of viable cells in culture based on quantitation of the ATP present an indicator of metabolically active cells Crouch et al 1993 J. Immunol. Meth. 160 81 88 U.S. Pat. No. 6 602 677 . The CellTiter Glo Assay was conducted in 96 or 384 well format making it amenable to automated high throughput screening HTS Cree et al 1995 AntiCancer Drugs 6 398 404 . The homogeneous assay procedure involves adding the single reagent CellTiter Glo Reagent directly to cells cultured in serum supplemented medium. Cell washing removal of medium and multiple pipetting steps are not required. The system detects as few as 15 cells well in a 384 well format in 10 minutes after adding reagent and mixing.

The homogeneous add mix measure format results in cell lysis and generation of a luminescent signal proportional to the amount of ATP present. The amount of ATP is directly proportional to the number of cells present in culture. The CellTiter Glo Assay generates a glow type luminescent signal produced by the luciferase reaction which has a half life generally greater than five hours depending on cell type and medium used. Viable cells are reflected in relative luminescence units RLU . The substrate Beetle Luciferin is oxidatively decarboxylated by recombinant firefly luciferase with concomitant conversion of ATP to AMP and generation of photons. The extended half life eliminates the need to use reagent injectors and provides flexibility for continuous or batch mode processing of multiple plates. This cell proliferation assay can be used with various multiwell formats e.g. 96 or 384 well format. Data can be recorded by luminometer or CCD camera imaging device. The luminescence output is presented as relative light units RLU measured over time.

The anti proliferative effects of Formula I exemplary compounds and combinations with chemotherapeutic agents were measured by the CellTiter Glo Assay Example 15 against the tumor cell lines in . ECvalues were established for the tested compounds and combinations. The range of in vitro cell potency activities was about 100 nM to about 10 M.

The individual measured EC50 values of the Formula I compounds and of the chemotherapeutic agent against the particular cell are compared to the combination EC50 value. The combination index CI score is calculated by the Chou and Talalay method Chou T. and Talalay P. 1984 Adv. Enzyme Regul. 22 27 55 . A CI less than 0.8 indicates synergy. A CI between 0.8 and 1.2 indicates additivity. A CI greater than 1.2 indicates antagonism. The strength of synergy is assessed according to Chou and Talalay. Certain therapeutic combinations in show the surprising and unexpected property of synergy in the in vitro cell proliferation assays with tumor type cell lines including non Hodgkin s lymphoma NHL diffuse large B cell lymphoma DLBCL and multiple myeloma. Other combinations show no synergy and only show mere additivity or antagonism. Certain combinations are synergistic with one or more tumor types but not others. The synergy demonstrated in the in vitro cell proliferation assays provides a basis to expect a corresponding synergy in treating hematopoietic cancers including but not limited to lymphoma and multiple myeloma in human patients.

Formula Ia GDC 0941 is cytotoxic to many B lymphoma cell lines inducing robust apoptosis as a single agent according to Table 2.

Data in table 2 indicate that GDC 0941 is broadly cytotoxic and potent against lymphoma cell lines at doses that could be clinically attainable.

Experiments such as those in were extended to additional cell lines and for combinations of GDC 0941 with thioTEPA doxorubicin vincristine and dexamethasone. Combination Index CI scores were calculated by the Chou Talalay method Table 3 . In no case did we find that CI values 1 which would indicate that GDC 0941 antagonized these other agents when tested in combination. In general GDC 0941 combine well with these other agents showing at least additivity. For combinations with Dexamethasone surprising and highly significant CI values of approximately 0.3 or less were obtained in all cell lines tested.

Table 5 shows the Combination Index scores calculated by the method of Chou and Talalay of different lymphoma cell lines by the therapeutic combinations of Formula Ia compound GDC 0941 and the chemotherapeutic agent vincristine. Certain combinations show synergy CI1.2 . The data indicate that GDC 0941 combines quite favorably with vincristine particularly in BJAB WSU DHL4 and WSU DLCL2. The CI value is shown at three different points on the dose response curve the ED50 ED75 and ED90 and the fact that similar CI values are obtained at these different points on the dose response curve indicates that the data are robust and the entire response curve has shifted to yield an increased biological response in the case of the combination of agents.

Table 6 shows the Combination Index scores calculated by the Chou Talalay method of treatment of various hematopoietic malignancy cell lines in the presence or absence of growth factors IL6 and IGF 1 by the therapeutic combinations of Formula Ia compound GDC 0941 and dexamethasone. Certain combinations show synergy CI1.2 . The data indicate that GDC 0941 combines quite favorably with dexamethasone. The CI value is shown at three different points on the dose response curve the ED50 ED75 and ED90 and the fact that similar CI values are obtained at these different points on the dose response curve indicates that the data are robust and the entire response curve has shifted to yield an increased biological response in the case of the combination of agents. MM1.s cells are known to be sensitive to dexamethasone and exhibited clear synergy when combined with GDC 0941. The MM1.r variant of this cell line is known to be dexamethasone resistant and consistent with this property overall lesser CI values were observed. The cytokines IL 6 and IGF 1 are major growth factors in the bone marrow microenvironment of multiple myeloma and involved in mediating signals via the PI3K AKT signaling pathway. The growth factors IL 6 and IGF 1 are generally thought to provide chemoresistance and in each of the cell lines addition of cytokines increased the combination index values.

Table 7 shows the Combination Index scores calculated by the Chou Talalay method of treatment of various hematopoietic malignancy cell lines in the presence or absence of growth factors IL6 and IGF 1 by the therapeutic combinations of Formula Ia compound GDC 0941 and lenalidomide. Certain combinations show synergy CI1.2 . The data indicate that GDC 0941 combines quite favorably with lenalidomide. The CI value is shown at three different points on the dose response curve the ED50 ED75 and ED90 and for certain cell lines the fact that similar CI values are obtained at these different points on the dose response curve indicates that the data are robust and the entire response curve has shifted to yield an increased biological response in the case of the combination of agents. The growth factors IL 6 and IGF 1 are generally thought to provide chemoresistance and in each of the cell lines addition of cytokines increased the combination index values.

Apoptotic responses to single agents FIGS. Ia and Ib compounds and the combinations of i FIG. Ia compound GDC 0941 and rapamycin and ii FIG. Ib compound and rapamycin in multiple myeloma and AML cell lines including OPM2 and H929 were measured by Annexin V FACS analysis. The screening conditions to measure absolute IC50s comprised Day 1 Plate cells at 10 000 cells well on a 384 well plate in media with 10 FBS Day 2 Dose cells with indicated compound setup. When rapamycin was used in combination with FIG. Ia or FIG. Ib compounds rapamycin concentration in the media was 0.1 uM and Day 5 Celltiter Glo assay. The measured apoptotic populations demonstrated synergy with combinations i and ii .

In blast cells from AML patients the combination of FIG. Ia GDC 0941 and a chemotherapy agent cytarabine or daunorubicin showed enhanced anti leukemic activity compared to single agent GDC 0941 and enhanced apoptic efficacy with only 30 and 22 live cells remaining respectively.

The efficacy of the combinations of the invention may be measured in vivo by implanting allografts or xenografts of cancer cells in rodents and treating the tumor bearing animals with the combinations. Variable results are to be expected depending on the cell line the presence or absence of certain mutations in the tumor cells the sequence of administration of Formula I compound and chemotherapeutic agent dosing regimen and other factors. Subject mice were treated with drug s or control Vehicle and monitored over several weeks or more to measure the time to tumor doubling log cell kill and tumor inhibition Example 16 .

Pharmaceutical compositions or formulations of the present invention include combinations of Formula I compounds a chemotherapeutic agent and one or more pharmaceutically acceptable carrier glidant diluent or excipient.

The Formula I compounds and chemotherapeutic agents of the present invention may exist in unsolvated as well as solvated forms with pharmaceutically acceptable solvents such as water ethanol and the like and it is intended that the invention embrace both solvated and unsolvated forms.

The Formula I compounds and chemotherapeutic agents of the present invention may also exist in different tautomeric forms and all such forms are embraced within the scope of the invention. The term tautomer or tautomeric form refers to structural isomers of different energies which are interconvertible via a low energy barrier. For example proton tautomers also known as prototropic tautomers include interconversions via migration of a proton such as keto enol and imine enamine isomerizations. Valence tautomers include interconversions by reorganization of some of the bonding electrons.

Pharmaceutical compositions encompass both the bulk composition and individual dosage units comprised of more than one e.g. two pharmaceutically active agents including a Formula I compound and a chemotherapeutic agent selected from the lists of the additional agents described herein along with any pharmaceutically inactive excipients diluents carriers or glidants. The bulk composition and each individual dosage unit can contain fixed amounts of the aforesaid pharmaceutically active agents. The bulk composition is material that has not yet been formed into individual dosage units. An illustrative dosage unit is an oral dosage unit such as tablets pills capsules and the like. Similarly the methods of treating a patient by administering a pharmaceutical composition is also intended to encompass the administration of the bulk composition and individual dosage units.

Pharmaceutical compositions also embrace isotopically labeled compounds of the present invention which are identical to those recited herein but for the fact that one or more atoms are replaced by an atom having an atomic mass or mass number different from the atomic mass or mass number usually found in nature. All isotopes of any particular atom or element as specified are contemplated within the scope of the compounds of the invention and their uses. Exemplary isotopes that can be incorporated into compounds of the invention include isotopes of hydrogen carbon nitrogen oxygen phosphorus sulfur fluorine chlorine and iodine such as H H C C C N N O O O P P S F Cl I and I. Certain isotopically labeled compounds of the present invention e.g. those labeled with H and C are useful in compound and or substrate tissue distribution assays. Tritiated H and carbon 14 C isotopes are useful for their ease of preparation and detectability. Further substitution with heavier isotopes such as deuterium H may afford certain therapeutic advantages resulting from greater metabolic stability e.g. increased in vivo half life or reduced dosage requirements and hence may be preferred in some circumstances. Positron emitting isotopes such as O N C and F are useful for positron emission tomography PET studies to examine substrate receptor occupancy. Isotopically labeled compounds of the present invention can generally be prepared by following procedures analogous to those disclosed in the Schemes and or in the Examples herein below by substituting an isotopically labeled reagent for a non isotopically labeled reagent.

Formula I compounds and chemotherapeutic agents are formulated in accordance with standard pharmaceutical practice for use in a therapeutic combination for therapeutic treatment including prophylactic treatment of hyperproliferative disorders in mammals including humans. The invention provides a pharmaceutical composition comprising a Formula I compound in association with one or more pharmaceutically acceptable carrier glidant diluent additive or excipient.

Suitable carriers diluents additives and excipients are well known to those skilled in the art and include materials such as carbohydrates waxes water soluble and or swellable polymers hydrophilic or hydrophobic materials gelatin oils solvents water and the like. The particular carrier diluent or excipient used will depend upon the means and purpose for which the compound of the present invention is being applied. Solvents are generally selected based on solvents recognized by persons skilled in the art as safe GRAS to be administered to a mammal. In general safe solvents are non toxic aqueous solvents such as water and other non toxic solvents that are soluble or miscible in water. Suitable aqueous solvents include water ethanol propylene glycol polyethylene glycols e.g. PEG 400 PEG 300 dimethylsulfoxide DMSO cremophor e.g. CREMOPHOR EL BASF . and mixtures thereof. The formulations may also include one or more buffers stabilizing agents surfactants wetting agents lubricating agents emulsifiers suspending agents preservatives antioxidants opaquing agents glidants processing aids colorants sweeteners perfuming agents flavoring agents and other known additives to provide an elegant presentation of the drug i.e. a compound of the present invention or pharmaceutical composition thereof or aid in the manufacturing of the pharmaceutical product i.e. medicament .

The formulations may be prepared using conventional dissolution and mixing procedures. For example the bulk drug substance i.e. compound of the present invention or stabilized form of the compound e.g. complex with a cyclodextrin derivative or other known complexation agent is dissolved in a suitable solvent in the presence of one or more of the excipients described above. The compound of the present invention is typically formulated into pharmaceutical dosage forms to provide an easily controllable dosage of the drug and to enable patient compliance with the prescribed regimen.

The pharmaceutical composition or formulation for application may be packaged in a variety of ways depending upon the method used for administering the drug. Generally an article for distribution includes a container having deposited therein the pharmaceutical formulation in an appropriate form. Suitable containers are well known to those skilled in the art and include materials such as bottles plastic and glass sachets ampoules plastic bags metal cylinders and the like. The container may also include a tamper proof assemblage to prevent indiscreet access to the contents of the package. In addition the container has deposited thereon a label that describes the contents of the container. The label may also include appropriate warnings.

Pharmaceutical formulations of the compounds of the present invention may be prepared for various routes and types of administration. For example a Formula I compound having the desired degree of purity may optionally be mixed with pharmaceutically acceptable diluents carriers excipients or stabilizers Remington s Pharmaceutical Sciences 1995 18th edition Mack Publ. Co. Easton Pa. in the form of a lyophilized formulation milled powder or an aqueous solution. Formulation may be conducted by mixing at ambient temperature at the appropriate pH and at the desired degree of purity with physiologically acceptable carriers i.e. carriers that are non toxic to recipients at the dosages and concentrations employed. The pH of the formulation depends mainly on the particular use and the concentration of compound but may range from about 3 to about 8.

The pharmaceutical formulation is preferably sterile. In particular formulations to be used for in vivo administration must be sterile. Such sterilization is readily accomplished by filtration through sterile filtration membranes.

The pharmaceutical formulation ordinarily can be stored as a solid composition a lyophilized formulation or as an aqueous solution.

The pharmaceutical formulations of the invention will be dosed and administered in a fashion i.e. amounts concentrations schedules course vehicles and route of administration consistent with good medical practice. Factors for consideration in this context include the particular disorder being treated the particular mammal being treated the clinical condition of the individual patient the cause of the disorder the site of delivery of the agent the method of administration the scheduling of administration and other factors known to medical practitioners. The therapeutically effective amount of the compound to be administered will be governed by such considerations and is the minimum amount necessary to prevent ameliorate or treat the coagulation factor mediated disorder. Such amount is preferably below the amount that is toxic to the host or renders the host significantly more susceptible to bleeding.

The initial pharmaceutically effective amount of the Formula I compound administered orally or parenterally per dose will be in the range of about 0.01 1000 mg kg namely about 0.1 to 20 mg kg of patient body weight per day with the typical initial range of compound used being 0.3 to 15 mg kg day. The dose of the Formula I compound and the dose of the chemotherapeutic agent to be administered may range for each from about 1 mg to about 1000 mg per unit dosage form or from about 10 mg to about 100 mg per unit dosage form. The doses of Formula I compound and the chemotherapeutic agent may administered in a ratio of about 1 50 to about 50 1 by weight or in a ratio of about 1 10 to about 10 1 by weight.

Acceptable diluents carriers excipients and stabilizers are nontoxic to recipients at the dosages and concentrations employed and include buffers such as phosphate citrate and other organic acids antioxidants including ascorbic acid and methionine preservatives such as octadecyldimethylbenzyl ammonium chloride hexamethonium chloride benzalkonium chloride benzethonium chloride phenol butyl or benzyl alcohol alkyl parabens such as methyl or propyl paraben catechol resorcinol cyclohexanol 3 pentanol and m cresol low molecular weight less than about 10 residues polypeptides proteins such as serum albumin gelatin or immunoglobulins hydrophilic polymers such as polyvinylpyrrolidone amino acids such as glycine glutamine asparagine histidine arginine or lysine monosaccharides disaccharides and other carbohydrates including glucose mannose or dextrins chelating agents such as EDTA sugars such as sucrose mannitol trehalose or sorbitol salt forming counter ions such as sodium metal complexes e.g. Zn protein complexes and or non ionic surfactants such as TWEEN CREMOPHOR EL PLURONICS or polyethylene glycol PEG . The active pharmaceutical ingredients may also be entrapped in microcapsules prepared for example by coacervation techniques or by interfacial polymerization for example hydroxymethylcellulose or gelatin microcapsules and poly methylmethacylate microcapsules respectively in colloidal drug delivery systems for example liposomes albumin microspheres microemulsions nano particles and nanocapsules or in macroemulsions. Such techniques are disclosed in Remington s Pharmaceutical Sciences 18th edition 1995 Mack Publ. Co. Easton Pa.

Sustained release preparations of Formula I compounds may be prepared. Suitable examples of sustained release preparations include semipermeable matrices of solid hydrophobic polymers containing a compound of Formula I which matrices are in the form of shaped articles e.g. films or microcapsules. Examples of sustained release matrices include polyesters hydrogels for example poly 2 hydroxyethyl methacrylate or poly vinyl alcohol polylactides U.S. Pat. No. 3 773 919 copolymers of L glutamic acid and gamma ethyl L glutamate non degradable ethylene vinyl acetate degradable lactic acid glycolic acid copolymers such as the LUPRON DEPOT injectable microspheres composed of lactic acid glycolic acid copolymer and leuprolide acetate and poly D 3 hydroxybutyric acid.

The pharmaceutical formulations include those suitable for the administration routes detailed herein. The formulations may conveniently be presented in unit dosage form and may be prepared by any of the methods well known in the art of pharmacy. Techniques and formulations generally are found in Remington s Pharmaceutical Sciences 18Ed. 1995 Mack Publishing Co. Easton Pa. Such methods include the step of bringing into association the active ingredient with the carrier which constitutes one or more accessory ingredients. In general the formulations are prepared by uniformly and intimately bringing into association the active ingredient with liquid carriers or finely divided solid carriers or both and then if necessary shaping the product.

Formulations of a compound of Formula I and or chemotherapeutic agent suitable for oral administration may be prepared as discrete units such as pills hard or soft e.g. gelatin capsules cachets troches lozenges aqueous or oil suspensions dispersible powders or granules emulsions syrups or elixirs each containing a predetermined amount of a compound of Formula I and or a chemotherapeutic agent. The amount of compound of Formula I and the amount of chemotherapeutic agent may be formulated in a pill capsule solution or suspension as a combined formulation. Alternatively the Formula I compound and the chemotherapeutic agent may be formulated separately in a pill capsule solution or suspension for administration by alternation.

Formulations may be prepared according to any method known to the art for the manufacture of pharmaceutical compositions and such compositions may contain one or more agents including sweetening agents flavoring agents coloring agents and preserving agents in order to provide a palatable preparation. Compressed tablets may be prepared by compressing in a suitable machine the active ingredient in a free flowing form such as a powder or granules optionally mixed with a binder lubricant inert diluent preservative surface active or dispersing agent. Molded tablets may be made by molding in a suitable machine a mixture of the powdered active ingredient moistened with an inert liquid diluent. The tablets may optionally be coated or scored and optionally are formulated so as to provide slow or controlled release of the active ingredient therefrom.

Tablet excipients of a pharmaceutical formulation of the invention may include Filler or diluent to increase the bulk volume of the powdered drug making up the tablet Disintegrants to encourage the tablet to break down into small fragments ideally individual drug particles when it is ingested and promote the rapid dissolution and absorption of drug Binder to ensure that granules and tablets can be formed with the required mechanical strength and hold a tablet together after it has been compressed preventing it from breaking down into its component powders during packaging shipping and routine handling Glidant to improve the flowability of the powder making up the tablet during production Lubricant to ensure that the tabletting powder does not adhere to the equipment used to press the tablet during manufacture. They improve the flow of the powder mixes through the presses and minimize friction and breakage as the finished tablets are ejected from the equipment Antiadherent with function similar to that of the glidant reducing adhesion between the powder making up the tablet and the machine that is used to punch out the shape of the tablet during manufacture Flavor incorporated into tablets to give them a more pleasant taste or to mask an unpleasant one and Colorant to aid identification and patient compliance.

Tablets containing the active ingredient in admixture with non toxic pharmaceutically acceptable excipient which are suitable for manufacture of tablets are acceptable. These excipients may be for example inert diluents such as calcium or sodium carbonate lactose calcium or sodium phosphate granulating and disintegrating agents such as maize starch or alginic acid binding agents such as starch gelatin or acacia and lubricating agents such as magnesium stearate stearic acid or talc. Tablets may be uncoated or may be coated by known techniques including microencapsulation to delay disintegration and adsorption in the gastrointestinal tract and thereby provide a sustained action over a longer period. For example a time delay material such as glyceryl monostearate or glyceryl distearate alone or with a wax may be employed.

For treatment of the eye or other external tissues e.g. mouth and skin the formulations are preferably applied as a topical ointment or cream containing the active ingredient s in an amount of for example 0.075 to 20 w w. When formulated in an ointment the active ingredients may be employed with either a paraffinic or a water miscible ointment base. Alternatively the active ingredients may be formulated in a cream with an oil in water cream base.

The aqueous phase of the cream base may include a polyhydric alcohol i.e. an alcohol having two or more hydroxyl groups such as propylene glycol butane 1 3 diol mannitol sorbitol glycerol and polyethylene glycol including PEG 400 and mixtures thereof. The topical formulations may desirably include a compound which enhances absorption or penetration of the active ingredient through the skin or other affected areas. Examples of such dermal penetration enhancers include dimethyl sulfoxide and related analogs.

The oily phase of the emulsions of this invention may be constituted from known ingredients in a known manner including a mixture of at least one emulsifier with a fat or an oil or with both a fat and an oil. Preferably a hydrophilic emulsifier is included together with a lipophilic emulsifier which acts as a stabilizer. Together the emulsifier s with or without stabilizer s make up an emulsifying wax and the wax together with the oil and fat comprise an emulsifying ointment base which forms the oily dispersed phase of cream formulations. Emulsifiers and emulsion stabilizers suitable for use in the formulation of the invention include Tween 60 Span 80 cetostearyl alcohol benzyl alcohol myristyl alcohol glyceryl mono stearate and sodium lauryl sulfate.

Aqueous suspensions of the pharmaceutical formulations of the invention contain the active materials in admixture with excipients suitable for the manufacture of aqueous suspensions. Such excipients include a suspending agent such as sodium carboxymethylcellulose croscarmellose povidone methylcellulose hydroxypropyl methylcellulose sodium alginate polyvinylpyrrolidone gum tragacanth and gum acacia and dispersing or wetting agents such as a naturally occurring phosphatide e.g. lecithin a condensation product of an alkylene oxide with a fatty acid e.g. polyoxyethylene stearate a condensation product of ethylene oxide with a long chain aliphatic alcohol e.g. heptadecaethyleneoxycetanol a condensation product of ethylene oxide with a partial ester derived from a fatty acid and a hexitol anhydride e.g. polyoxyethylene sorbitan monooleate . The aqueous suspension may also contain one or more preservatives such as ethyl or n propyl p hydroxybenzoate one or more coloring agents one or more flavoring agents and one or more sweetening agents such as sucrose or saccharin.

Pharmaceutical compositions may be in the form of a sterile injectable preparation such as a sterile injectable aqueous or oleaginous suspension. This suspension may be formulated according to the known art using those suitable dispersing or wetting agents and suspending agents which have been mentioned above. The sterile injectable preparation may be a solution or a suspension in a non toxic parenterally acceptable diluent or solvent such as a solution in 1 3 butanediol or prepared from a lyophilized powder. Among the acceptable vehicles and solvents that may be employed are water Ringer s solution and isotonic sodium chloride solution. In addition sterile fixed oils may conventionally be employed as a solvent or suspending medium. For this purpose any bland fixed oil may be employed including synthetic mono or diglycerides. In addition fatty acids such as oleic acid may likewise be used in the preparation of injectables.

The amount of active ingredient that may be combined with the carrier material to produce a single dosage form will vary depending upon the host treated and the particular mode of administration. For example a time release formulation intended for oral administration to humans may contain approximately 1 to 1000 mg of active material compounded with an appropriate and convenient amount of carrier material which may vary from about 5 to about 95 of the total compositions weight weight . The pharmaceutical composition can be prepared to provide easily measurable amounts for administration. For example an aqueous solution intended for intravenous infusion may contain from about 3 to 500 g of the active ingredient per milliliter of solution in order that infusion of a suitable volume at a rate of about 30 mL hr can occur.

Formulations suitable for parenteral administration include aqueous and non aqueous sterile injection solutions which may contain anti oxidants buffers bacteriostats and solutes which render the formulation isotonic with the blood of the intended recipient and aqueous and non aqueous sterile suspensions which may include suspending agents and thickening agents.

Formulations suitable for topical administration to the eye also include eye drops wherein the active ingredient is dissolved or suspended in a suitable carrier especially an aqueous solvent for the active ingredient. The active ingredient is preferably present in such formulations in a concentration of about 0.5 to 20 w w for example about 0.5 to 10 w w for example about 1.5 w w.

Formulations suitable for topical administration in the mouth include lozenges comprising the active ingredient in a flavored basis usually sucrose and acacia or tragacanth pastilles comprising the active ingredient in an inert basis such as gelatin and glycerin or sucrose and acacia and mouthwashes comprising the active ingredient in a suitable liquid carrier.

Formulations for rectal administration may be presented as a suppository with a suitable base comprising for example cocoa butter or a salicylate.

Formulations suitable for intrapulmonary or nasal administration have a particle size for example in the range of 0.1 to 500 microns including particle sizes in a range between 0.1 and 500 microns in increments microns such as 0.5 1 30 microns 35 microns etc. which is administered by rapid inhalation through the nasal passage or by inhalation through the mouth so as to reach the alveolar sacs. Suitable formulations include aqueous or oily solutions of the active ingredient. Formulations suitable for aerosol or dry powder administration may be prepared according to conventional methods and may be delivered with other therapeutic agents such as compounds heretofore used in the treatment or prophylaxis disorders as described below.

Formulations suitable for vaginal administration may be presented as pessaries tampons creams gels pastes foams or spray formulations containing in addition to the active ingredient such carriers as are known in the art to be appropriate.

The formulations may be packaged in unit dose or multi dose containers for example sealed ampoules and vials and may be stored in a freeze dried lyophilized condition requiring only the addition of the sterile liquid carrier for example water for injection immediately prior to use. Extemporaneous injection solutions and suspensions are prepared from sterile powders granules and tablets of the kind previously described. Preferred unit dosage formulations are those containing a daily dose or unit daily sub dose as herein above recited or an appropriate fraction thereof of the active ingredient.

The invention further provides veterinary compositions comprising at least one active ingredient as above defined together with a veterinary carrier therefore. Veterinary carriers are materials useful for the purpose of administering the composition and may be solid liquid or gaseous materials which are otherwise inert or acceptable in the veterinary art and are compatible with the active ingredient. These veterinary compositions may be administered parenterally orally or by any other desired route.

Formula I compounds may be employed in combination with certain chemotherapeutic agents for the treatment of a hematopoietic malignancy along with pre malignant and non neoplastic or non malignant hyperproliferative disorders. In certain embodiments a compound of Formula I is combined in a pharmaceutical combination formulation or dosing regimen as combination therapy with a chemotherapeutic agent that has anti hyperproliferative properties or that is useful for treating the hematopoietic malignancy. The chemotherapeutic agent of the pharmaceutical combination formulation or dosing regimen preferably has complementary activities to the Formula I compound and such that they do not adversely affect each other. Such compounds of the therapeutic combination may be administered in amounts that are effective for the purpose intended. In one embodiment a pharmaceutical formulation of this invention comprises a Formula I compound and a chemotherapeutic agent such as described herein. In another embodiment the therapeutic combination is administered by a dosing regimen wherein the therapeutically effective amount of a Formula I compound is administered in a range from twice daily to once every three weeks q3wk and the therapeutically effective amount of the chemotherapeutic agent is administered separately in alternation in a range from twice daily to once every three weeks.

Therapeutic combinations of the invention include a product comprising a Formula I compound and a chemotherapeutic agent selected from dexamethasone thioTEPA doxorubicin vincristine rituximab cyclophosphamide prednisone melphalan lenalidomide bortezomib rapamycin and cytarabine as a combined preparation for separate simultaneous or sequential use in the treatment of a hyperproliferative disorder.

The combination therapy may be administered as a simultaneous or sequential regimen. When administered sequentially the combination may be administered in two or more administrations. The combined administration includes coadministration using separate formulations or a single pharmaceutical formulation and consecutive administration in either order wherein preferably there is a time period while both or all active agents simultaneously exert their biological activities.

Suitable dosages for any of the above coadministered agents are those presently used and may be lowered due to the combined action synergy of the newly identified agent and other chemotherapeutic agents or treatments such as to increase the therapeutic index or mitigate toxicity or other side effects or consequences.

In a particular embodiment of anti cancer therapy the therapeutic combination may be combined with surgical therapy and radiotherapy as adjuvant therapy. Combination therapies according to the present invention include the administration of at least one Formula I compound and one or more other cancer treatment methods or modalities. The amounts of the Formula I compound s and the chemotherapeutic agent s and the relative timings of administration will be selected in order to achieve the desired combined therapeutic effect.

The therapeutic combinations of the invention may be administered by any route appropriate to the condition to be treated. Suitable routes include oral parenteral including subcutaneous intramuscular intravenous intraarterial inhalation intradermal intrathecal epidural and infusion techniques transdermal rectal nasal topical including buccal and sublingual vaginal intraperitoneal intrapulmonary and intranasal. Topical administration can also involve the use of transdermal administration such as transdermal patches or iontophoresis devices. Formulation of drugs is discussed in Remington s Pharmaceutical Sciences 18Ed. 1995 Mack Publishing Co. Easton Pa. Other examples of drug formulations can be found in Liberman H. A. and Lachman L. Eds. Pharmaceutical Dosage Forms Marcel Decker Vol 3 2Ed. New York N.Y. For local immunosuppressive treatment the compounds may be administered by intralesional administration including perfusing or otherwise contacting the graft with the inhibitor before transplantation. It will be appreciated that the preferred route may vary with for example the condition of the recipient. Where the compound is administered orally it may be formulated as a pill capsule tablet etc. with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier glidant or excipient. Where the compound is administered parenterally it may be formulated with a pharmaceutically acceptable parenteral vehicle or diluent and in a unit dosage injectable form as detailed below.

A dose to treat human patients may range from about 10 mg to about 1000 mg of Formula I compound such as about 100 mg to about 300 mg of the compound. A dose may be administered once a day QD twice per day BID or more frequently depending on the pharmacokinetic PK and pharmacodynamic PD properties including absorption distribution metabolism and excretion of the particular compound. In addition toxicity factors may influence the dosage and administration dosing regimen. When administered orally the pill capsule or tablet may be ingested twice daily daily or less frequently such as weekly or once every two or three weeks for a specified period of time. The regimen may be repeated for a number of cycles of therapy.

Therapeutic combinations of 1 a Formula I compound and 2 a chemotherapeutic agent are useful for treating diseases conditions and or disorders including but not limited to those characterized by activation of the PI3 kinase pathway. Accordingly another aspect of this invention includes methods of treating diseases or conditions that can be treated by inhibiting lipid kinases including PI3. In one embodiment a method for the treatment of a hematopoietic malignancy comprises administering a therapeutic combination as a combined formulation or by alternation to a mammal wherein the therapeutic combination comprises a therapeutically effective amount of a compound having Formula I and a therapeutically effective amount of one or more chemotherapeutic agents selected from dexamethasone thioTEPA doxorubicin vincristine rituximab cyclophosphamide prednisone melphalan lenalidomide bortezomib rapamycin and cytarabine. Therapeutic combinations of 1 a Formula I or II compound and 2 a chemotherapeutic agent may be employed for the treatment of a hyperproliferative disease or disorder including tumors cancers and neoplastic tissue along with pre malignant and non neoplastic or non malignant hyperproliferative disorders. In one embodiment a human patient is treated with a therapeutic combination and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier adjuvant or vehicle wherein the Formula I compound or metabolite thereof of said therapeutic combination is present in an amount to detectably inhibit PI3 kinase activity.

Hematopoietic malignancies include non Hodgkin s lymphoma diffuse large hematopoietic lymphoma follicular lymphoma mantle cell lymphoma chronic lymphocytic leukemia multiple myeloma AML MCL

Another aspect of this invention provides a pharmaceutical composition or therapeutic combination for use in the treatment of the diseases or conditions described herein in a mammal for example a human suffering from such disease or condition. Also provided is the use of a pharmaceutical composition in the preparation of a medicament for the treatment of the diseases and conditions described herein in a warm blooded animal such as a mammal for example a human suffering from such disorder.

Also falling within the scope of this invention are the in vivo metabolic products of Formula I compounds described herein. Such products may result for example from the oxidation reduction hydrolysis amidation deamidation esterification deesterification enzymatic cleavage and the like of the administered compound. Accordingly the invention includes metabolites of Formula I compounds including compounds produced by a process comprising contacting a compound of this invention with a mammal for a period of time sufficient to yield a metabolic product thereof.

Metabolite products typically are identified by preparing a radiolabelled e.g. C or H isotope of a compound of the invention administering it parenterally in a detectable dose e.g. greater than about 0.5 mg kg to an animal such as rat mouse guinea pig monkey or to man allowing sufficient time for metabolism to occur typically about 30 seconds to 30 hours and isolating its conversion products from the urine blood or other biological samples. These products are easily isolated since they are labeled others are isolated by the use of antibodies capable of binding epitopes surviving in the metabolite . The metabolite structures are determined in conventional fashion e.g. by MS LC MS or NMR analysis. In general analysis of metabolites is done in the same way as conventional drug metabolism studies well known to those skilled in the art. The metabolite products so long as they are not otherwise found in vivo are useful in diagnostic assays for therapeutic dosing of the compounds of the invention.

In another embodiment of the invention an article of manufacture or kit containing Formula I compounds useful for the treatment of the diseases and disorders described above is provided. In one embodiment the kit comprises a container comprising a Formula I compound. The kit may further comprise a label or package insert on or associated with the container. The term package insert is used to refer to instructions customarily included in commercial packages of therapeutic products that contain information about the indications usage dosage administration contraindications and or warnings concerning the use of such therapeutic products. Suitable containers include for example bottles vials syringes blister pack etc. The container may be formed from a variety of materials such as glass or plastic. The container may hold a compound of Formula I or a formulation thereof which is effective for treating the condition and may have a sterile access port for example the container may be an intravenous solution bag or a vial having a stopper pierceable by a hypodermic injection needle . At least one active agent in the composition is a Formula I compound. The label or package insert indicates that the composition is used for treating the condition of choice such as cancer. In one embodiment the label or package inserts indicates that the composition comprising a Formula I compound can be used to treat a disorder resulting from abnormal cell growth. The label or package insert may also indicate that the composition can be used to treat other disorders. Alternatively or additionally the article of manufacture may further comprise a second container comprising a pharmaceutically acceptable buffer such as bacteriostatic water for injection BWFI phosphate buffered saline Ringer s solution and dextrose solution. It may further include other materials desirable from a commercial and user standpoint including other buffers diluents filters needles and syringes.

The kit may further comprise directions for the administration of the compound of Formula I and if present the second pharmaceutical formulation. For example if the kit comprises a first composition comprising a compound of Formula I and a second pharmaceutical formulation the kit may further comprise directions for the simultaneous sequential or separate administration of the first and second pharmaceutical compositions to a patient in need thereof.

In another embodiment the kits are suitable for the delivery of solid oral forms of a compound of Formula I such as tablets or capsules. Such a kit preferably includes a number of unit dosages. Such kits can include a card having the dosages oriented in the order of their intended use. An example of such a kit is a blister pack . Blister packs are well known in the packaging industry and are widely used for packaging pharmaceutical unit dosage forms. If desired a memory aid can be provided for example in the form of numbers letters or other markings or with a calendar insert designating the days in the treatment schedule in which the dosages can be administered.

According to one embodiment a kit may comprise a a first container with a compound of Formula I contained therein and optionally b a second container with a second pharmaceutical formulation contained therein wherein the second pharmaceutical formulation comprises a second compound with anti hyperproliferative activity. Alternatively or additionally the kit may further comprise a third container comprising a pharmaceutically acceptable buffer such as bacteriostatic water for injection BWFI phosphate buffered saline Ringer s solution and dextrose solution. It may further include other materials desirable from a commercial and user standpoint including other buffers diluents filters needles and syringes.

Where the kit comprises a composition of Formula I and a second therapeutic agent i.e. the chemotherapeutic agent the kit may comprise a container for containing the separate compositions such as a divided bottle or a divided foil packet however the separate compositions may also be contained within a single undivided container. Typically the kit comprises directions for the administration of the separate components. The kit form is particularly advantageous when the separate components are preferably administered in different dosage forms e.g. oral and parenteral are administered at different dosage intervals or when titration of the individual components of the combination is desired by the prescribing physician.

The Suzuki type coupling reaction is useful to attach a fused bicyclic heterocycle or heteroaryl at the 2 position of the pyrimidine ring see Scheme 4 . Generally substituted 2 chloro 4 morpholinothieno 3 2 d pyrimidine 5 may be combined with 1.5 equivalents of 4 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl 1H indazole 7 and dissolved in 3 equivalents of sodium carbonate as a 1 molar solution in water and an equal volume of acetonitrile. Intermediate 7 was prepared according to the methods of US 2008 0039459 US 2008 0076768 US 2008 0076758 US 2008 0207611 incorporated by reference herein. A catalytic amount or more of a low valent palladium reagent such as bis triphenylphosphine palladium II dichloride is added. A variety of boronic acids or boronic esters can be used in place of the indazole boronic ester indicated. Also alternatively the nitrogen of the indazole may be protected for example with a tetrahydropyranyl group. In some cases potassium acetate was used in place of sodium carbonate to adjust the pH of the aqueous layer. The reaction was then heated to about 140 150 C. under pressure in a Biotage Optimizer microwave reactor Biotage Inc. for 10 to 30 minutes. The contents are extracted with ethyl acetate or another organic solvent. After evaporation of the organic layer the product 8 may be purified on silica or by reverse phase HPLC.

The Suzuki type coupling reaction is useful to attach a monocyclic heteroaryl at the 2 position of the pyrimidine ring see Scheme 4 . Generally substituted 2 chloro 4 morpholinothieno 3 2 d pyrimidine 5 may be combined with 1.5 equivalents of 5 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl pyrimidin 2 amine 7a and dissolved in 3 equivalents of sodium or potassium carbonate as a 1 molar solution in water and an equal volume of acetonitrile. Intermediate 7a was prepared according to the methods of US 2008 0269210 US 2008 0242665 incorporated by reference herein. A catalytic amount or more of a low valent palladium reagent such as bis triphenylphosphine palladium II dichloride is added. A variety of boronic acids or boronic esters can be used in place of the pinacol boronic ester indicated. Also alternatively the nitrogen of the pyrimidin 2 amine may be protected for example with a tetrahydropyranyl group. In some cases potassium acetate was used in place of sodium carbonate to adjust the pH of the aqueous layer. The reaction was then heated for example to about 100 150 C. under pressure in a Biotage Optimizer microwave reactor Biotage Inc. for 10 to 30 minutes. The contents are extracted with ethyl acetate or another organic solvent. After evaporation of the organic layer the product 8a may be purified on silica or by reverse phase HPLC.

2 1H Indazol 4 yl 4 morpholinothieno 3 2 d pyrimidine 6 carboxylic acid 13 is treated with 1.5 eq HATU 3 eq of alkylamine and 3 eq of DIPEA in DMF to approximately 0.1 M concentration. The reaction is stirred until complete and extracted in ethylacetate with saturated bicarbonate solution one time. The organic layer is dried filtered and concentrated to yield the crude intermediate. This intermediate is purified via reverse phase HPLC to yield product 15.

4 Morpholino 2 pyridin 3 yl thieno 3 2 d pyrimidine 6 carboxylic acid 13a is treated with 1.5 eq HATU 3 eq of an alkylamine R NH and 3 eq of DIPEA in DMF to approximately 0.1 M concentration. The reaction is stirred until complete and extracted in ethylacetate with saturated bicarbonate solution one time. The organic layer is dried filtered and concentrated to yield the crude intermediate. This intermediate is purified via reverse phase HPLC to yield product 15a.

2 Chloro 4 morpholino 6 piperazin 1 yl methyl thieno 3 2 d pyrimidine is treated with about 1.5 eq of a coupling reagent such as HATU about 3 eq of a carboxylic acid RCOH and an excess of an amine base such as DIPEA in DMF to approximately 0.1 M concentration. The reaction is stirred until complete and extracted in ethyl acetate with saturated bicarbonate solution one time. The organic layer is dried filtered and concentrated to yield the crude intermediate.

2 Chloro 4 morpholinothieno 3 2 d pyrimidine 6 carbaldehyde is dissolved to a 0.2 M concentration in dichloroethane. To this solution is added 1.5 to 2.0 equivalents of a primary or secondary amine RNH about 10 equivalents of trimethylorthoformate and about 1 equivalent of acetic acid. The mixture is allowed to stir for 2 6 hours prior to adding 1.5 equivalents of sodium triacetoxyborohydride. Following 12 to 16 hours of stirring the reaction was poured into saturated sodium bicarbonate and extracted several times with ethyl acetate to give the reductive amination intermediate which is either purified on silica gel or used crude in the next reaction.

2 Chloro 4 morpholinothieno 3 2 d pyrimidine 6 sulfonyl chloride 17 is suspended in DCM before addition of about 2 eq of amine HNR and about 3 eq of an amine base such as DIPEA. The reactions are monitored by LCMS until complete. The crude reaction mixtures are diluted with ethyl acetate extracted with saturated ammonium chloride and back extracted once with ethyl acetate. The organic layers were combined and concentrated to dryness. The crude sulfonamide intermediates 18 are used directly in the subsequent Suzuki couplings.

2 Chloro 4 morpholinothieno 3 2 d pyrimidine 4 is suspended to a 0.2 molar concentration in THF and cooled to 50 C. in a dry ice acetonitrile bath before adding 2 equivalents of 2.5 M nBuLi in hexanes. After 15 min 3.0 molar equivalents of a cyclic or acyclic ketone RC O is added to the solution. The reaction continued to stir at 50 C. for 1 h and then in most cases was allowed to come to 0 C. When the reaction is complete by TLC or mass spec. it is quenched into a saturated ammonium chloride solution and extracted two times with EtOAc. The organic layer is concentrated and either used as a crude mixture purified on silica or the product 12 could be dissolved in a minimal amount of acetonitrile and filtered to remove remaining starting material 4.

Ten or more equivalents of 4N HCl in dioxane with or without dichloromethane as a co solvent are added to the starting material general scheme shown above but similar scaffolds also used . Heating up to 40 C. for several hours is occasionally required to remove the Boc group. The reaction is concentrated to dryness and may be used crude in subsequent reactions.

2 Chloro 6 iodo 4 morpholinothieno 3 2 d pyrimidine 19 1 eq phenylboronic acid or heterocycleboronic acid R B OH 1.1 eq and bis triphenylphosphine palladium II dichloride 0.1 eq in 1M NaCOaqueous solution 3 eq and acetonitrile 3 eq was heated to 100 C. in a sealed microwave reactor for 10 to 40 min to give 5. Upon completion 4 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl 1H indazole 7 1.3 eq and bis triphenylphosphine palladium II dichloride 0.1 eq were added in the same pot. The reaction mixture was heated to 150 C. in a sealed microwave reactor for 10 to 15 min. The mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate 3 5 mL . The combined organic layers were concentrated to yield crude 8.

2 Chloro 4 morpholinothieno 3 2 d pyrimidin 6 amine 22 1 eq acid chloride about 2 eq and triethylamine 2 eq in dichloromethane was stirred. The reaction was monitored by LC MS until complete. The mixture was evaporated to give the crude amide 23 which was directly used for the next step reaction without purification.

To a 0.25 to 0.40 M solution of 1 2 chloro 4 morpholinothieno 2 3 d pyrimidin 6 yl N methylmethanamine in DCM cooled to 0 C. was added 1.5 eq. of TEA followed by the drop wise addition of 1.0 to 1.5 eq. of an alkyl or aryl acid chloride or a sulfonylchloride diluted in DCM. The reaction is stirred at ambient temperature and monitored for completeness by LCMS. After completion the reaction volume is increased with DCM and dilute aqueous sodium bicarbonate is added to the solution. The organic and aqueous layers are separated. Finally the organic layer is washed with brine and dried MgSO . The dried organic solution is concentrated in vacuo and the product is purified by silica chromatography if necessary.

3 2 Chloro 4 morpholinothieno 3 2 d pyrimidin 6 yl benzenamine 24 1 eq carboxylic acid 1.5 eq 1 hydroxy 7 azabenzotriazole 0.2 eq O 7 azabenzotriazol 1 yl N N N N tetramethyluronium hexafluorophosphate HATU 1.5 eq and N N diisopropylethylamine 2.5 eq in DMF was stirred at room temperature. The reaction was monitored by LC MS until complete. The reaction mixture was diluted with ethyl acetate washed with saturated sodium bicarbonate and brine. The organic layer was dried over MgSO filtered and evaporated to yield amide product 25.

To a solution of 2 chloro 6 iodo 4 morpholinothieno 3 2 d pyrimidine 19 0.05 g 0.13 mmol in DMF 1.00 mL was added the appropriate aniline 200 mol Cs CO 50 mol Pd dba 5 mol and XANTPHOS 10 mol . The reaction was heated to 110 C. under pressure in a Biotage optimizer microwave reactor for 30 min. The resulting solution was concentrated in vacuo to give 26 after following General Procedure A.

To a solution of 2 chloro 4 morpholinothieno 3 2 d pyrimidin 6 yl methanamine 27 50 mg 0.2 mmol in CHCl 4 mL was added EtN 84 L 0.6 mmol and the appropriate acid chloride or HCl salt thereof 0.3 mmol . The reaction stirred 18 48 hr at room temperature before being quenched with water. The aqueous layer was extracted with EtOAc. The combined organics were dried over NaSOand concentrated in vacuo. The 2 chloro crude product was coupled with boronate reagent 7 and palladium catalyst according to General Procedure A to give 28 which was purified by reversed phase HPLC purification.

Alternatively to a solution of 2 chloro 4 morpholinothieno 3 2 d pyrimidin 6 yl methanamine 27 111 mg 0.39 mmol in DMF 5 mL was added 2 6 lutidine 48.2 L 0.41 mmol and the appropriate acid chloride or HCl salt thereof 0.39 mmol . The reaction stirred 18 72 hr at room temperature before being quenched with water. The aqueous layer was extracted with EtOAc. The combined organics were dried over MgSOand concentrated in vacuo. The 2 chloro crude product was coupled with boronate reagent 7 and palladium catalyst according to General Procedure A to give 20 mg of 28 which was purified by reversed phase HPLC purification.

A mixture of 2 chloro 6 6 fluoropyridin 3 yl 4 morpholinothieno 3 2 d pyrimidine about four equivalents of a primary or secondary amine R H C Calkyl C Calkenyl C Calkynyl C Ccarbocyclyl C Cheterocyclyl C Caryl or C Cheteroaryl and about two eq. diisopropylethylamine in N methylpyrrolidine 0.1M is heated to about 130 140 C. in a sealed microwave reactor for 10 40 min followed by removal of volatiles under high vacuum. The crude mixture is purified by flash chromatography to give intermediate 2 chloro 6 6 aminopyridin 3 yl 4 morpholinothieno 3 2 d pyrimidine which may be Suzuki coupled with a monocyclic heteroaryl fused bicyclic heterocycle or heteroaryl boronate reagent following General Procedure A.

In order to illustrate the invention the following examples are included. However it is to be understood that these examples do not limit the invention and are only meant to suggest a method of practicing the invention. Persons skilled in the art will recognize that the chemical reactions described may be readily adapted to prepare a number of other PI3K inhibitors of the invention and alternative methods for preparing the compounds of this invention are deemed to be within the scope of this invention. For example the synthesis of non exemplified compounds according to the invention may be successfully performed by modifications apparent to those skilled in the art e.g. by appropriately protecting interfering groups by utilizing other suitable reagents known in the art other than those described and or by making routine modifications of reaction conditions. Alternatively other reactions disclosed herein or known in the art will be recognized as having applicability for preparing other compounds of the invention.

A mixture of methyl 3 amino 2 thiophenecarboxylate 1 13.48 g 85.85 mmol and urea 29.75 g 5 eq. was heated at 190 C. for 2 hours. The hot reaction mixture was poured onto sodium hydroxide solution and any insoluble material was removed by filtration. The mixture was then acidified HCl 2N to yield 1H thieno 3 2 d pyrimidine 2 4 dione 2 as a white precipitate which was collected by filtration and air dried 9.49 g 66 . H NMR 400 MHz d DMSO 6.90 1H d J 5.2 Hz 8.10 1H d J 5.2 Hz 11.60 11.10 2H br s .

A mixture of 1H thieno 3 2 d pyrimidine 2 4 dione 2 9.49 g 56.49 mmol and phosphorous oxychloride 150 mL was heated at reflux for 6 h. The reaction mixture was then cooled and poured onto ice water with vigorous stirring yielding a precipitate. The mixture was then filtered to yield 2 4 dichloro thieno 3 2 d pyrimidine 3 as a white solid 8.68 g 75 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.56 1H d J 5.5 Hz 8.13 1H d J 5.5 Hz .

A mixture of 2 4 dichloro thieno 3 2 d pyrimidine 3 8.68 g 42.34 mmol morpholine 8.11 mL 2.2 eq. and MeOH 150 mL was stirred at room temperature for 1 h. The reaction mixture was then filtered washed with water and MeOH to yield 2 chloro 4 morpholin 4 yl thieno 3 2 d pyrimidine 4 as a white solid 11.04 g 100 . H NMR 400 MHz d DMSO 3.74 4H t J 4.9 Hz 3.90 4H t J 4.9 Hz 7.40 1H d J 5.6 Hz 8.30 1H d J 5.6 Hz .

To a suspension of 2 chloro 4 morpholin 4 yl thieno 3 2 d pyrimidine 4 1.75 g 6.85 mmol in dry THF 40 mL at 78 C. was added a 2.5M solution of n butyllithium nBuLi in hexane 3.3 mL 1.2 eq. . After stirring for 1 h dry DMF 796 L 1.5 eq. was added. The reaction mixture was stirred for 1 h at 78 C. and then warmed slowly to room temperature. After a further 2 h at room temperature the reaction mixture poured onto ice water yielding a yellow precipitate. This was collected by filtration and air dried to yield 2 chloro 4 morpholin 4 yl thieno 3 2 d pyrimidine 6 carbaldehyde 10 1.50 g 77 . H NMR 400 MHz d DMSO 3.76 4H t J 4.9 3.95 4H t J 4.9 8.28 1H s 10.20 1H s .

To a solution of 2 chloro 7 methyl 4 morpholinothieno 3 2 d pyrimidine 39 3.0 g 11.1 mmol prepared according to the procedure for the synthesis of 2 chloro 4 morpholin 4 yl thieno 3 2 d pyrimidine but commencing with 3 amino 4 methyl thiophene 2 carboxylic acid ethyl ester in THF 60 mL at 78 C. was added n BuLi 8.9 mL 2.5 M in EtO . The resulting slurry was warmed to 40 C. and stirred 50 min. The reaction mixture was then cooled to 78 C. and a solution of I 5.6 g 22.2 mmol in THF 30 mL was added. The solution was warmed to room temperature and stirred 5 h. The reaction was quenched by the addition of water. The organic layer was separated and the aqueous layer was extracted with CHCl. The combined organics were washed with saturated aqueous NaSO dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo to provide 2 chloro 6 iodo 7 methyl 4 morpholinothieno 3 2 d pyrimidine 41 3.8 g 84 yield .

A mixture of 2 chloro 4 morpholin 4 yl thieno 3 2 d pyrimidine 6 carbaldehyde 10 3.5 g 1 BOC piperazine 2.76 g and trimethylorthoformate 4.05 mL was stirred in 1 2 dichloroethane 300 mL for 1 hr at room temperature. To this was added sodium triacetoxyborohydride 3.92 g and the reaction mixture was stirred for 24 hours at room temperature. The mixture was then quenched with brine extracted with dichloromethane dried MgSO and the solvent removed in vacuo. The residue was purified using flash chromatography to yield 4 2 chloro 4 morpholin 4 yl thieno 3 2 d pyrimidin 6 ylmethyl piperazine 1 carboxylic acid tert butyl ester 3.4 g . Treatment with HCl in dichloromethane methanol yielded 4 2 chloro 6 piperazin 1 ylmethyl thieno 3 2 d pyrimidin 4 yl morpholine 30.

2 Chloro 4 morpholinothieno 3 2 d pyrimidine 6 carbaldehyde 10 2.0 g was dissolved in 50 mL toluene and 50 mL THF followed by the addition of 20 mL of 40 methylamine in HO. The reaction mixture was stirred at room temp under Nfor 24 hours. The solvents were removed in vacuo and the residue was dissolved in 50 mL methanol and 50 mL THF and the NaBHadded portion wise. This reaction mixture was stirred at room temp under Nfor 24 hours and complete reaction was confirmed by LCMS. The solvents were removed in vacuo and the crude product purified by flash chromatography EtOAc EtOH to give 1.12 g 35 53 yield . MS Q1 300 M .

2 Chloro 7 methyl 4 morpholinothieno 3 2 d pyrimidine 6 carbaldehyde 36 was dissolved in 20 mL toluene and 20 mL THF followed by the addition of 15 mL 40 methylamine in HO and the reaction was stirred for 24 hours. The reaction mixture was concentrated in vacuo and the residue dissolved in 30 mL methanol and 30 mL THF followed by the addition of NaBH. The reaction was stirred at room temp for at least 24 hours and product formation was confirmed by LCMS. The solvents were removed in vacuo and the crude product purified by flash chromatography to give 2.53 g 2 chloro 7 methyl 4 morpholinothieno 3 2 d pyrimidin 6 yl N methylmethanamine 37 70 yield MS Q1 314 M 

Reaction between N BOC piperazine and methane sulfonyl chloride in dichloromethane and triethylamine yielded 4 methanesulfonyl piperazine 1 carboxylic acid tert butyl ester. Cleavage of the BOC protecting group using HCl 2M in dichloromethane yielded 1 methanesulfonyl piperazine HCl salt.

A mixture of 2 chloro 4 morpholin 4 yl thieno 3 2 d pyrimidine 6 carbaldehyde 10 1.00 g 1 methanesulfonyl piperazine 750 mg and trimethylorthoformate 3.80 mL was stirred in 1 2 dichloroethane 30 mL for 6 hrs at room temperature. To this was added sodium triacetoxyborohydride 900 mg and the reaction mixture was stirred for 24 hours at room temperature. The mixture was then quenched with brine extracted with dichloromethane dried MgSO and the solvent removed in vacuo. The residue was triturated with hot ethyl acetate to yield 4 2 chloro 6 4 methylsulfonyl piperazin 1 yl methyl thieno 3 2 d pyrimidin 4 yl morpholine 31 as a white solid 1.01 g .

Intermediate 7 was prepared according to the methods of US 2008 0076768 US 2008 0076758 WO 2006 046031 incorporated by reference herein.

Intermediate 40 was prepared according to the methods of US 2008 0039459 US 2008 0076768 US 2008 0076758 US 2008 0207611 incorporated by reference herein.

A mixture of 2 chloro 4 morpholin 4 yl thieno 3 2 d pyrimidine 6 carbaldehyde 10 100 mg 0.35 mmol 4 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl 1H indazole 70 95 mg 0.39 mmol and sodium carbonate 112 mg were suspended in toluene 2.5 mL ethanol 1.5 mL and water 0.7 mL . To this was added bis triphenylphosphine palladium II chloride 13.5 mg and the reaction vessel was flushed with argon. The reaction mixture was microwaved at 120 C. for 1 h and then partitioned between DCM and water the organic layer was washed with brine dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and evaporated in vacuo. The resulting residue was purified using flash chromatography to yield 2 1H indazol 4 yl 4 morpholin 4 yl thieno 3 2 d pyrimidine 6 carbaldehyde 11 97 mg .

A mixture of 4 2 chloro 6 4 methylsulfonyl piperazin 1 yl methyl thieno 3 2 d pyrimidin 4 yl morpholine 31 from Example 4 2.00 g 4 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl 1H indazole 7 2.26 g toluene 24 mL ethanol 12 mL water 6 mL sodium carbonate 1.72 g and PdCl PPh 325 mg was heated to 130 C. in the microwave for 90 minutes US 2008 0076768 WO 2006 046031 incorporated by reference herein .

The reaction mixture was cooled diluted with chloroform washed with brine dried MgSO and the solvent removed in vacuo. The residue was purified using flash chromatography ethyl acetate then 5 ethyl acetate methanol and then trituration with ether yielded Formula Ia compound GDC 0941 1.4 g . MS data ESI MH 514. NMR data CDCl 2.67 2.71 4H m 2.81 3H s 3.29 3.33 4H m 3.89 2H s 3.89 3.93 4H m 4.08 4.12 4H m 7.41 1H s 7.51 1H t J 7.2 7.60 1H d J 8.3 8.28 1H d J 7.5 9.02 1H s 10.10 1H br 

2 Chloro 7 methyl 4 morpholinothieno 3 2 d pyrimidine 6 carbaldehyde 36 495 mg was reacted with Boc piperazine via General Procedure B 3 to give tert butyl 4 2 chloro 7 methyl 4 morpholinothieno 3 2 d pyrimidin 6 yl methyl piperazine 1 carboxylate.

Tert butyl 4 2 chloro 7 methyl 4 morpholinothieno 3 2 d pyrimidin 6 yl methyl piperazine 1 carboxylate 777 mg was subjected to General Procedure E to give the HCl salt of 2 chloro 7 methyl 4 morpholino 6 piperazin 1 yl methyl thieno 3 2 d pyrimidine. The HCl salt of 2 chloro 7 methyl 4 morpholino 6 piperazin 1 yl methyl thieno 3 2 d pyrimidine 590 mg was reacted with lactic acid via General Procedure B 2 to give S 1 4 2 chloro 7 methyl 4 morpholinothieno 3 2 d pyrimidin 6 yl methyl piperazin 1 yl 2 hydroxypropan 1 one.

 S 1 4 2 Chloro 7 methyl 4 morpholinothieno 3 2 d pyrimidin 6 yl methyl piperazin 1 yl 2 hydroxypropan 1 one 60 mg was reacted with 50 mg of 5 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl pyrimidin 2 amine via General Procedure A 2 to give 10 mg of Formula Ib US 2008 0242665 incorporated by reference . MS Q1 499.3 M .

Binding Assays Initial polarization experiments were performed on an Analyst HT 96 384 Molecular Devices Corp Sunnyvale Calif. . Samples for fluorescence polarization affinity measurements were prepared by addition of 1 3 serial dilutions of p110alpha PI3K Upstate Cell Signaling Solutions Charlottesville Va. starting at a final concentration of 20 ug mL in polarization buffer 10 mM Tris pH 7.5 50 mM NaCl 4 mM MgCl 0.05 Chaps and 1 mM DTT to 10 mM PIP Echelon Inc. Salt Lake City Utah final concentration. After an incubation time of 30 minutes at room temperature the reactions were stopped by the addition of GRP 1 and PIP3 TAMRA probe Echelon Inc. Salt Lake City Utah 100 nM and 5 nM final concentrations respectively. Read with standard cut off filters for the rhodamine fluorophore ex 530 nm em 590 nm in 384 well black low volume Proxiplates PerkinElmer Wellesley Mass. Fluorescence polarization values were plotted as a function of the protein concentration and the ECvalues were obtained by fitting the data to a 4 parameter equation using KaleidaGraph software Synergy software Reading Pa. . This experiment also establishes the appropriate protein concentration to use in subsequent competition experiments with inhibitors.

Inhibitor ICvalues were determined by addition of the 0.04 mg mL p110alpha PI3K final concentration combined with PIP 10 mM final concentration to wells containing 1 3 serial dilutions of the antagonists in a final concentration of 25 mM ATP Cell Signaling Technology Inc. Danvers Mass. in the polarization buffer. After an incubation time of 30 minutes at room temperature the reactions were stopped by the addition of GRP 1 and PIP3 TAMRA probe Echelon Inc. Salt Lake City Utah 100 nM and 5 nM final concentrations respectively. Read with standard cut off filters for the rhodamine fluorophore ex 530 nm em 590 nm in 384 well black low volume proxi plates PerkinElmer Wellesley Mass. Fluorescence polarization values were plotted as a function of the antagonist concentration and the ICvalues were obtained by fitting the data to a 4 parameter equation in Assay Explorer software MDL San Ramon Calif. .

Alternatively inhibition of PI3K was determined in a radiometric assay using purified recombinant enzyme and ATP at a concentration of 1 uM. The compound was serially diluted in 100 DMSO. The kinase reaction was incubated for 1 h at room temperature and the reaction was terminated by the addition of PBS. ICvalues were subsequently determined using sigmoidal dose response curve fit variable slope .

Efficacy of Formula I or II compounds were measured by a cell proliferation assay employing the following protocol Mendoza et al 2002 Cancer Res. 62 5485 5488 . The CellTiter Glo Luminescent Cell Viability Assay including reagents and protocol are commercially available Promega Corp. Madison Wis. Technical Bulletin TB288 . The assay assesses the ability of compounds to enter cells and inhibit cell proliferation. The assay principle is based on the determination of the number of viable cells present by quantitating the ATP present in a homogenous assay where addition of the Cell Titer Glo reagent results in cell lysis and generation of a luminescent signal through the luciferase reaction. The luminescent signal is proportional to the amount of ATP present.

Procedure Day 1 Seed Cell Plates 384 well black clear bottom microclear TC plates with lid from Falcon 353962 Harvest cells Seed cells at 1000 cells per 54 l per well into 384 well Cell Plates for 3 days assay. Cell Culture Medium RPMI or DMEM high glucose 10 Fetal Bovine Serum 2 mM L Glutamine P S. Incubate O N at 37 C 5 CO2.

Day 2 Add Drug to Cells Compound Dilution DMSO Plates serial 1 2 for 9 points Add 20 ul compounds at 10 mM in the 2nd column of 96 well plate. Perform serial 1 2 across the plate 10 l 20 l 100 DMSO for a total of 9 points using Precision. Media Plates 96 well conical bottom polypropylene plates from Nunc cat. 249946 1 50 dilution Add 147 l of Media into all wells. Transfer 3 l of DMSO compound from each well in the DMSO Plate to each corresponding well on Media Plate using Rapidplate. For 2 drug combo studies transfer one drug 1.5 l of DMSO compound from each well in the DMSO Plate to each corresponding well on Media Plate using Rapidplate. Then transfer another drug 1.5 ul to the medium plate.

Drug Addition to Cells Cell Plate 1 10 dilution Add 6 l of media compound directly to cells 54 l of media on the cells already . Incubate 3 days at 37 C 5 CO2 in an incubator that will not be opened often.

Day 5 Develop Plates Thaw Cell Titer Glo Buffer at room temperature. Remove Cell Plates from 37 C. and equilibrate to room temperature. for about 30 minutes. Add Cell Titer Glo Buffer to Cell Titer Glo Substrate bottle to bottle . Add 30 l Cell Titer Glo Reagent Promega cat. G7572 to each well of cells. Place on plate shaker for about 30 minutes. Read luminescence on Analyst HT Plate Reader half second per well .

Cell viability assays and combination assays Cells were seeded at 1000 2000 cells well in 384 well plates for 16 h. On day two nine serial 1 2 compound dilutions were made in DMSO in a 96 well plate. The compounds were further diluted into growth media using a Rapidplate robot Zymark Corp. Hopkinton Mass. . The diluted compounds were then added to quadruplicate wells in 384 well cell plates and incubated at 37 C and 5 CO2. After 4 days relative numbers of viable cells were measured by luminescence using Cell Titer Glo Promega according to the manufacturer s instructions and read on a Wallac Multilabel Reader PerkinElmer Foster City . EC50 values were calculated using Prism 4.0 software GraphPad San Diego . Drugs in combination assays were dosed starting at 4 EC50 concentrations. If cases where the EC50 of the drug was 2.5 M the highest concentration used was 10 M. PI3K inhibitors and chemotherapeutic agents were added simultaneously or separated by 4 hours one before the other in all assays.

1. An aliquot of 100 l of cell culture containing about 10cells see for cell lines and tumor type in medium was deposited in each well of a 384 well opaque walled plate.

5. A volume of CellTiter Glo Reagent equal to the volume of cell culture medium present in each well was added.

9. Analyze using the Chou and Talalay combination method and Dose Effect Analysis with CalcuSyn software Biosoft Cambridge UK in order to obtain a Combination Index.

Alternatively cells were seeded at optimal density in a 96 well plate and incubated for 4 days in the presence of test compound. Alamar Blue was subsequently added to the assay medium and cells were incubated for 6 h before reading at 544 nm excitation 590 nm emission. ECvalues were calculated using a sigmoidal dose response curve fit.

Alternatively Proliferation Viability was analyzed after 48 hr of drug treatment using Cell Titer glo reagent Promega Inc. Madison Wis. . DMSO treatment was used as control in all viability assays. ICvalues were calculated using XL fit software IDBS Alameda Calif. 

The AML cell lines AP 1060 EOL 1 FKH 1 GF D8 HEL HL 60 HNT 34 Kasumi 1 KG 1 ME 1 ML 2 MOLM 13 MOLM 16 MV4 11 NOMO 1 OCI AML2 OCI AML3 OCI AML5 OCI M1 OCI M2 PL 21 SET 2 SIG M5 SKM 1 THP 1 UKE 1 and UT 7 were obtained from either ATCC or DSMZ. Cells are maintained in RPMI 1640 media with 10 heat inactivated FBS Sigman Aldrich and 2 mol L L glutamine. Antibodies for Western blotting were purchased from Cell Signal Technology with the exception of p110 antibody which was obtained from Epitomics. Inhibitor GDC 0941 was synthesized at Genentech. Rapamycin Ara C and daunorubicin were purchased from Sigma. All compounds were prepared as stock solutions in DMSO and diluted in assay buffer upon use. Blast cells were isolated from AML patient peripheral blood or bone marrow samples by Ficoll separation. After wash in PBS isolated cells were cultured in RPMI 1640 media with 10 FBS and a cytokine cocktail as indicated IGF 1 SCF GMCSF and IL 3 at 10 ng ml each .

Human multiple myeloma cell lines were all obtained from the American Type Culture Collection ATCC Manassas Va. and also mentioned in earlier studies . Cells were cultured in RPMI 1640 medium supplemented with 10 fetal bovine serum 100 units ml penicillin 2 mM L glutamine and 100 mg ml streptomycin Life Technology Grand Island N.Y. at 37 C. under 5 CO.

Mice Female severe combined immunodeficiency mice Fox Chase SCID C.B 17 IcrHsd Harlan were 8 to 9 weeks old and had a BW range of 15.1 to 21.4 grams on Day 0 of the study. The animals were fed ad libitum water reverse osmosis 1 ppm Cl and NIH 31 Modified and Irradiated Lab Diet consisting of 18.0 crude protein 5.0 crude fat and 5.0 crude fiber. The mice were housed on irradiated ALPHA Dri Bed O Cobs Laboratory Animal Bedding in static microisolators on a 12 hour light cycle at 21 22 C. 70 72 F. and 40 60 humidity. PRC specifically complies with the recommendations of the Guide for Care and Use of Laboratory Animals with respect to restraint husbandry surgical procedures feed and fluid regulation and veterinary care. The animal care and use program at PRC is accredited by the Association for Assessment and Accreditation of Laboratory Animal Care International AAALAC which assures compliance with accepted standards for the care and use of laboratory animals.

Xenografts were initiated with cancer cells. Cells were cultured in RPMI 1640 medium supplemented with 10 fetal bovine serum 2 mM glutamine 100 units mL penicillin 100 g mL streptomycin sulfate and 25 g mL gentamicin. The cells were harvested during exponential growth and resuspended in phosphate buffered saline PBS at a concentration of 5 10cells mL. On the day of tumor implant each test mouse received 1 10 7 cells 0.2 mL implanted subcutaneously in the right flank and tumor growth was monitored as the average size approached the target range of 100 to 150 mm3. Twenty one days after tumor implantation designated as Day 0 of the study the mice were placed into four groups each consisting of ten mice with individual tumor volumes ranging from 75 172 mm3 and group mean tumor volumes from 120 121 mm3 see Appendix A . Volume was calculated using the formula Tumor Volume mm 2

where w width and l length in mm of a tumor. Tumor weight may be estimated with the assumption that 1 mg is equivalent to 1 mm3 of tumor volume.

Formula Ia compound GDC 0941 Genentech Inc. was supplied as a dry powder in salt form which contained 73 active agent and was stored at room temperature protected from light. Drug doses were prepared weekly in 0.5 methylcellulose 0.2 Tween 80 in deionized water MC Tw80 Vehicle and stored at 4 C. The salt form containing 73 active agent was accounted for in the formulation of G 033829 doses. Rituximab Rituxan 10 mg mL for injection Genentech Lot M79901 was purchased as the clinical drug. Doses of rituximab were prepared on each day of dosing by diluting an aliquot of the stock with sterile saline 0.9 NaCl . All doses were formulated to deliver the stated mg kg dosage in a volume of 0.2 mL per 20 grams of body weight 10 mL kg .

All doses were scaled to the body weights of the individual animals and were provided by the route indicated in each of the figures.

Tumors were measured twice each week using calipers. Mice were monitored individually and each animal was euthanized when its tumor reached a volume of 1500 mm3 or at the end of the study on Day 40 whichever came first. However due to the self limiting growth of control tumors the endpoint was reduced to 1000 mm3 for analysis. The time to endpoint TTE for each mouse was calculated from the following equation TTE days log endpoint volume mm 

where b is the intercept and m is the slope of the line obtained by linear regression of a log transformed tumor growth data set. The data set was comprised of the first observation that exceeded the study endpoint volume and the three consecutive observations that immediately preceded the attainment of the endpoint volume. Animals that do not reach the endpoint are assigned a TTE value equal to the last day of the study. Animals classified as NTR non treatment related deaths due to accident NTRa or due unknown causes NTRu are excluded from TTE calculations and all further analyses . Animals classified as TR treatment related deaths or NTRm non treatment related death due to metastasis are assigned a TTE value equal to the day of death. Treatment outcome was evaluated by tumor growth delay TGD which is defined as the increase in the median time to endpoint TTE in a treatment group compared to the control group TGD 

where T median TTE for a treatment group C median TTE for the control group Group 1 . Treatment may cause partial regression PR or complete regression CR of the tumor in an animal. In a PR response the tumor volume is 50 or less of its Day 1 volume for three consecutive measurements during the course of the study and equal to or greater than 13.5 mm3 for one or more of these three measurements. In a CR response the tumor volume is less than 13.5 mm3 for three consecutive measurements during the course of the study. An animal with a CR response at the termination of a study is additionally classified as a tumor free survivor TFS . Animals were monitored for regression responses.

Animals were weighed daily for the first five days of the study and twice weekly thereafter. The mice were observed frequently for overt signs of any adverse treatment related side effects and clinical signs of toxicity were recorded when observed. Acceptable toxicity is defined as a group mean body weight BW loss of less than 20 during the study and not more than one treatment related TR death among ten treated animals. Any dosing regimen that results in greater toxicity is considered above the maximum tolerated dose MTD . A death is classified as TR if attributable to treatment side effects as evidenced by clinical signs and or necropsy or may also be classified as TR if due to unknown causes during the dosing period or within 10 days of the last dose. A death is classified as NTR if there is no evidence that death was related to treatment side effects.

B cell lines DoHH2 and WSU DLCL2 and Myeloma cell lines OPM2 and U266 were maintained in RPMI 1640 10 FBS in the presence of Pen Strep and Glutamine.

Alternatively 10 10cells for each condition were plated in 10 cmplate and cells were treated using GDC 0941 dexamethasone or lenalidomide and or in combinations. DMSO treatment was used as control. Cells were washed once with cold PBS and lysed using 1 cell lysis buffer Cell Signaling Technology Beverly Mass. . An equal amount of protein was resolved using Nupage Bis Tris gels Invitrogen Carlsbad Calif. . Western blot analysis was performed using anti phospho Akt Serine 473 anti PTEN anti phospho BAD serine 136 anti phospho FoXO 1 3a Bim cleaved caspase 9 cleaved caspase 3 p27 and cleaved PARP antibodies Cell Signaling Technology Beverly Mass. . Total AKT total BAD total Foxo3a and actin Sigma levels were used as loading controls.

B cell lines DoHH2 and WSU DLCL2 and Myeloma cell lines OPM2 and U266 were maintained in RPMI 1640 10 FBS in the presence of Pen Strep and Glutamine.

Apoptotic and viable cells were measured by quantitative fluorescence analysis using fluorescence activated cell sorting FACS assay with minor modifications Munugalavadla et al 2008 Mol. Cell Biol. 28 23 7182 7198 . Various multiple myeloma cell lines 1 10 were treated with DMSO or various concentrations of FIG. Ia GDC 0941 for 24 hr cells were then stained using Annexin V APC PI kit BD Biosciences San Jose Calif. according to the manufacturers instructions and analyzed by flow cytometry. In case of primary multiple myeloma patient sample 2 million nucleated BM cells were seeded in a 6 well plate in 2 ml advanced RPMI Invitrogen Carlsbad Calif. supplemented with 2 heat inactivated bovine growth serum Hyclone Waltham Mass. and 2 ng ml recombinant IL6 R D Systems Inc. Minneapolis Minn. . Cells were treated with vehicle DMSO 1 M or 10 M GDC 0941 for 72 hrs and then analyzed by flow cytometry to evaluate drug induced apoptosis. The following reagents were used CD45RA FITC CD38 APC and Propidium Iodide all from BD Pharmingen San Jose Calif. . Data was acquired on a CyanADP instrument Dako Cytomation and analyzed using FlowJo software Tree Star . Live plasma cells were identified as CD38hiCD45RA and PI .

Cell cycle analysis was done using Click iT Edu Cytometry Assay Kit Invitrogen Carlsbad Calif. according to manufactures instructions. Fluorescence was measured on BD LSR II and data was analyzed using FlowJo software Becton Dickinson .

Bone marrow mononuclear cells BM MNC from MM donors were cultured overnight in 10 ml RPMI supplemented with 10 FBS. After incubation the cells were washed once with growth media and resuspended in 1 ml of media. For each donor the cells were split into 500 mL aliquots and were treated with either DMSO or GDC 0941 at 1 mM for 1 hour at 37 C. After treatment the cell pellets were collected at 1200 rpm for five minutes and pellets were washed once with cold PBS. The cell pellets were resuspended with 60 ml 1 Mesoscale Discovery MSD Gaithersburg Md. lysis buffer and lysates were cleared by centrifugation at 4 C. at 14000 rpm for 10 minutes. The cleared cell lysates were used to evaluate phospho Akt Ser473 and total Akt using MSD kit according to manufactures instructions with minor modifications.

