---

title: Communicating messages within network games
abstract: Systems and methods for communicating messages within online games are described. One of the methods includes receiving a message post from a first user. The message post is displayed on an in-game object that is configured for sharing message posts between the first user and other users. The method further includes detecting an interfacing action by a second user with the in-game object. The interfacing action is an input that is responsive to request content that is part of the message post. The method further includes validating the interfacing action to meet a threshold. If the threshold is met, the virtual game object is credited to the game space of the first user. The method includes generating a reward to the second user when the interfacing action is validated. The reward is credited to a game space of the second user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09320971&OS=09320971&RS=09320971
owner: Zynga Inc.
number: 09320971
owner_city: San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130314
---
The present patent application claims the benefit of and priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 e to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 613 913 filed on Mar. 21 2012 and titled Communicating Messages Within Network Games which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety for all purposes.

The present disclosure relates to methods and systems for communicating messages within network games.

With the advancement of the Internet a wide variety of games have developed. These games involve various virtual users that perform various actions such as shooting and exercising. One person controls one virtual user and another person controls another virtual user. If a person is playing against a computer the computer controls the other virtual user.

Some games involve in game communication. For example a virtual user conveys an in game message to a person.

Embodiments of the present invention provide methods and systems for communicating messages within network games.

In some embodiments a first real user is able to communicate with a second real user within an online game regardless of whether the first real user is logged into a web account to play the online game. The first user is able to communicate a message to a second real user at a time the second real user views the communication even though the first user is logged off from the web account or is disconnected from the web account. The second user views the communication that is within the online game. Such asynchronous communication that occurs when the real users are not logged on simultaneously facilitates convenience in communicating messages within online games between real users.

In another embodiment a method for communicating messages within online games is described. The method includes receiving a message post from a first user. The message post is being displayed on an in game object that is configured for sharing message posts between the first user and other users that enter a game space in which the in game object resides. The method further includes detecting an interfacing action by a second user with the in game object. The interfacing action is an input that is responsive to request content that is part of the message post. The request content identifies a virtual game object and its value to the first user. The method further includes validating the interfacing action to meet a threshold. If the threshold is met the virtual game object is credited to the game space of the first user. The method includes generating a reward to the second user when the interfacing action is validated. The reward is credited to a game space of the second user.

In one embodiment a method for communicating messages within network games is described. The method includes receiving a request to play the game. The method further includes initiating a gaming session upon receiving the request. During the gaming session environment data of the game is generated in response to receiving the request. The method also includes receiving an interaction with a view item data of the environment data and receiving message data within the view item data upon receiving the interaction. The method includes determining that an end of the gaming session has occurred and receiving an additional request to play an additional game. The additional game is played using an additional web account. The method includes initiating an additional gaming session upon receiving the additional request. During the additional gaming session the method includes receiving response data in response to the message data.

In another embodiment a server system for communicating messages within network games is described. The server system includes a communication interface configured to receive a request to play a game. The game is played using a web account. The server system further includes a processor that is configured to initiate a gaming session upon receiving the request. During the gaming session the processor is configured to generate environment data of the game in response to receiving the request. Also the environment data includes quest data and view item data. Moreover during the gaming session the processor is configured to receive an interaction with the view item data and receive message data within the view item data upon receiving the interaction. The processor is configured to determine that an end of the gaming session has occurred. The communication interface is further configured to receive an additional request to play an additional game. The additional game is played using an additional web account. The processor is configured to initiate an additional gaming session upon receiving the additional request. During the additional gaming session the processor is configured to receive response data in response to the message data.

Other embodiments of the present invention will become apparent from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings illustrating by way of example the principles of various embodiments that are described in the present disclosure.

It should be noted that various embodiments of the present invention may be practiced without some or all of these specific details. In other instances well known process operations have not been described in detail in order not to unnecessarily obscure various embodiments of the present invention.

Examples of a memory device include a read only memory ROM a random access memory RAM a flash memory a nonvolatile memory a magnetic memory and a volatile memory. Examples of a client device include a computer a desktop computer a laptop computer a tablet and a cell phone. Examples of an input device include a keyboard a mouse a touch screen and a stylus. A server as used herein includes a physical machine or a virtual machine.

The SNS includes a processor and a communication interface . As used herein a processor includes a central processing unit CPU an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or a microprocessor. Examples of a communication interface include a network interface controller a network adapter and a modem. A network adapter includes a processor and a memory device which may include a data buffer.

When the login information of the real user is authenticated by the SNS the real user is provided access to the web account . Otherwise when the SNS determines that the login information is unauthentic the real user is prevented from accessing the web account . The web account is assigned by the social network server to the real user and the web account is assigned by the social network server to the real user .

In various embodiments the SNS provides a social network service to allow real users to communicate with each other via respective web accounts that are maintained in the memory device . For example the real user posts a message in his her web account and addresses the message to the web account of the real user . When the real user gains access to his her web account the real user can see the message. In some embodiments the SNS also provides other services such as facilitating chatting with other uses and facilitating posting multimedia such as text images video audio or a combination thereof by real users. The multimedia is posted to the SNS by a real user via a client device and a web account and is accessible by other real users who are allowed access by the real user.

Upon gaining access to the web account the real user selects a button on the input device of the client device to play a game and when the button is selected the client device sends a request via a network to a game server to access the game on a display device of the client device . Examples of a display device include a light emitting diode LED display device a liquid crystal display LCD device a cathode ray tube CRT display device and a plasma display device. Examples of the network include a wired network a combination of a wired network and a wireless network a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a combination of a local area network and a wide area network the Internet an Intranet and a combination of the Internet and an Intranet. The game server includes a processor a communication interface and a memory device .

When the request is received by the communication interface of the game server the communication interface sends game data to the client device via a network . It should be noted that game data is generated by a processor of the game server . The game data is rendered by a graphical processing unit GPU of the client device to display the game . When the game is accessed via the request the real user plays the game during a gaming session.

A gaming session that is generated based on a request starts when game data that is rendered to generate a game on a display screen of a client device is sent by the game server to the client device. For example the gaming session that is generated based on the request starts when the game data is sent by the game server via the network to the client device to generate the game .

Similarly the real user provides his her login information via a client device to log into the web account and when authenticated by the SNS is provided access to the web account . When access to the web account is provided the real user selects a button on an input device of the client device to play the game and when the button is selected the client device sends a request via the network to the communication interface of the game server to play a game . Upon receiving the request the game server provides access to game data to allow the real user to play the game on a display device of the client device . When the game is accessed via the request the real user plays the game during a gaming session.

In one embodiment games and are the same. For example both games and are a Pioneer Trail game available from Zynga Corporation of San Francisco Calif. As another example both games and are a FarmVille game available from Zynga Corporation.

In other embodiments game is different than the game . For example game is the Pioneer Trail game and game is the FarmVille game. As another example game is a CastleVille game available from Zynga Corporation and game is the FarmVille game.

At some time after the gaming session is accessed via the request the SNS determines that the gaming session has ended. For example a gaming session ends when the real user selects a button on the input device of the client device to log out of the web account . In this example when an indication of the log out is received the client device sends a request to end the gaming session via the network to the SNS . As another example a gaming session ends when a connection between the client device and the SNS or the game server is lost. A connection between a server and a client device is lost due to a variety of factors such as a malfunction in network a malfunction in the client device a loss of power to the network a loss of power to the server a loss of power to the client device or a combination thereof. As yet another example a gaming session ends when latest game data that is stored on the game server is not received by a client device. In this example a parameter of the game is changed on the game server and has not changed on the display device of the client device . Moreover in this example the real user has not logged out of the web account after accessing the gaming session with the request . Also in this example connections between the client device and the servers and exist. Examples of a game parameter of a game include an amount within a virtual score keeping game object which is described below and a position of a virtual animation object which is also described below.

After the termination of the gaming session that is accessed with the request the real user sends another request via the client device and network to play the game . In some embodiments if the real user logged out of the web account to log out of the gaming session that is accessed using the request the real user logs back into the web account to access the game again before playing the game . For example after a log out from the web account the real user provides his her login information to the SNS that determines whether the log in information is authentic. Upon determining that the login information is authentic the real user is provided access to the web account . Upon receiving access the real user again selects a button on the input device of the client device to play the game . When an indication of the selection is received by the client device the client device sends the request via the network to the communication interface of game server .

In other embodiments if a connection between the client device and the server or is lost and the connection is re established the real user logs back into his her web account to play the game . Moreover in various embodiments in which there is a connection between the client devices and the servers and and the real user is not logged out of the web account after accessing the gaming session with the request the real user selects a refresh button on the input device of the client device to continue playing the game . When the refresh button is selected the client device generates the request and sends the request via the network to the game server .

When the request is received the game server sends game data via the network to the client device . Upon receiving the game data the GPU of the client device renders the game data to display the game . When the game is accessed via the request the real user plays the game during a gaming session that is different than the gaming session that is generated with the request .

In other embodiments the web accounts are maintained in the game server instead of in the SNS . For example the web accounts are not provided by a social network service but by a gaming service. The gaming service allows the real users to play games online via the World Wide Web with the user of web accounts that are independent of a social gaming service.

It should further be noted that in one embodiment a server includes any number of components. For example the game server includes more than one processor and or more than one memory devices. In some embodiments any functions described as being performed by a server are performed by one or more processors of the server. For example functions that are described as being performed by the SNS are performed by one or more processors such as processor of server SNS . As another example functions that are described as being performed by game server are performed by one or more processors such as processor of game server .

Moreover in other embodiments any functions described as being performed by a server are performed by one or more processors of one or more servers. In various embodiments any authentication that is described herein as being performed by the SNS is performed by an authentication server not shown .

It is noted that indication of any interaction such as a selection hovering browsing etc. by a real user via an input device of a client device with a gaming environment which is described below is received by the game server via the network . Moreover any information such as data within messages that is entered by a real user within a game is also received by the game server via the network .

An environment includes virtual game objects which include virtual score keeping game objects and virtual animation objects. Examples of virtual animation objects include virtual farms virtual flora virtual structures virtual vehicles virtual animals virtual harvestable patches of land virtual view items and virtual users. Examples of virtual view items include a virtual publication item and a virtual message item. A virtual view item is sometimes referred to herein as an in game object. It should be noted that in some embodiments a virtual structure includes a virtual view item. Examples of a virtual view item include a virtual newsstand which has virtual information items such as virtual newspapers virtual magazines virtual food virtual drinks and virtual message posts. It should be noted that in some embodiments the terms message post and message are used interchangeably. Examples of a virtual structure include a virtual house a virtual building a virtual skyscraper a virtual shack a virtual barrack a virtual barricade a virtual road divider and a virtual roadblock.

A virtual score keeping object includes an amount such as a value or a number of a virtual animation object such as a virtual service or a virtual product that is accumulated during a play of a game by a virtual user. Examples of an amount of a virtual product include a number of virtual structures built during play of a game a number of virtual animals fed during play of a game a number of virtual coins accumulated by a virtual user during play of a game a number of virtual daubers accumulated by a virtual user during play of the game a number of virtual wood logs accumulated during play of the game an amount of virtual grass accumulated during play of the game an amount of virtual food accumulated during play of the game an amount of virtual rent collected for using a virtual structure during play of the game and an amount of virtual gold stars earned during play of the game a game level assigned to a virtual user during play of the game an experience level assigned to a virtual user during play of the game and an energy level of a virtual user during play of the game. An environment is sometimes referred to herein as a game space.

Examples of an amount of a virtual service includes a number of times a virtual bridge is crossed during play of a game a number of times help is provided by a virtual user to another virtual user during play of a game a number of times a virtual structure is used during play of the game a number of times virtual crops are harvested during play of the game a number of times a virtual vehicle is driven during play of the game a number of times a virtual animal is used during play of the game and a number of times a virtual animal is fed during play of the game.

The environment includes a number of virtual score keeping objects that includes various amounts of virtual animation objects that are accumulated by the virtual user . For example the environment includes a score keeping object that includes a number of coins that is accumulated by the virtual user within the game a score keeping object that includes a number of wood logs accumulated by the virtual user within the game a score keeping object that includes an energy level of the virtual user within the game a score keeping object that includes a game level of the game and a score keeping object that includes an experience level of the virtual user within the game .

The display screen includes multiple buttons which allow a real user to provide selection to access various aspects of a game. For example when a real user selects an Invite Friends button on the display screen the game server communicates with the SNS to allow the real user to invite his her social network friends to play a game or some part of the game that is displayed on the display screen. As another example when a real user selects a Buy Objects button that is displayed on a display screen during a play of a game the game server allows the real user to buy virtual products and or virtual services of the game. As yet another example when a real user selects a Free Gifts button that is displayed on a display screen of a client device during a play of a game the game server provides gift data to the client device that renders the gift data to display gifts that are free on the display screen. In some embodiments a gift is free when the gift is provided to a virtual user without a monetary loss to a real user a virtual product loss to the virtual user and a virtual service loss to the virtual user. As yet another example when a real user selects a Play button on the display screen the real user plays or continues playing a game that is displayed on the display screen .

At the bottom of the environment there are user identifications IDs buttons such as virtual user ID button and a real user ID button . A virtual user ID is an identification such as an image or a username of a virtual user and a real user ID is an identification such as an image or a username of a real user. When a real user selects a user ID button via an input device of a client device the game server sends option data to the client device. The option data is rendered by the GPU of the client device to display options such as an option to visit an environment that is associated with the user ID of the user ID button that is selected hiring a virtual user that is associated with the user ID inviting a real user having the user ID to play a game and inviting a virtual user having the user ID to play a game.

In some embodiments when the option regarding visiting an environment is selected by a real user via an input device of a client device the game server sends environment data to the client device and the environment data is rendered by the GPU of the client device to display an environment that is associated with the user ID that is used to visit the environment. For example when the real user selects the virtual user ID button the game server sends environment data to the client device and the GPU of the client device renders the environment data to display an environment that includes the virtual user.

The environment includes a quest that can be achieved by a virtual user of the environment . Examples of a quest include a goal within a game such as a goal of achieving an amount within a virtual score keeping object a goal of accumulating a number of virtual products and a goal of providing a number of virtual services. In some embodiments a quest when achieved leads to another quest which is displayed when the game server sends quest data that is rendered to display the other quest. In some embodiments the quest is offered by the virtual user having the virtual user ID . In other embodiments the quest is offered by a real user such as the real user having the real user ID .

The environment includes a virtual user that is assigned by the game server to the real user . The virtual user is controlled by the real user within the game via the input device of the client device .

The environment also includes a virtual publication item such as a virtual structure which is owned or leased by the virtual user . For example the publication item is a virtual newsstand. When the virtual user is on the quest the environment lacks an amount of virtual animation objects that is helpful to the virtual user to achieve the quest . For example the environment lacks a number of virtual trees that is helpful to the virtual user to achieve a quest of accumulating a hundred wood logs. As another example the environment lacks a number of harvestable patches of land that is helpful to the virtual user to achieve a quest of accumulating two hundred virtual tomatoes. As yet another example the environment lacks virtual manpower to achieve a quest.

The lack of the amount of virtual animation objects is sent as lack data by the game server to the client device and is rendered by the GPU of the client device to display the lack. When the real user views the lack of the number of virtual products the real user selects via the input device of the client device the publication item . When the publication item is selected the game server allows the real user to enter a wish list of one or more messages such as messages and within the publication item via the input device of the client device . The messages and or indicate to a real user that the virtual user lacks one or more virtual animation objects. For example the message includes I wish to have wood and the message includes I need fire . As another example the message includes I need help to cross a bridge .

Any messages received from the real user from real users who are social network friends of the real user and from virtual users whose IDs are displayed in the environment are received within a portion of a view item. In other embodiments the portion is prevented by the game server from receiving messages from real users other than the real user and from receiving messages from virtual users other than the virtual user . In these embodiments another portion of the view item is designated by the game server for receiving messages from a virtual user other than the virtual user and or a real user other than the real user .

In some embodiments the game server avoids publishing any messages posted within the publication item to web accounts of real users such as real user that are social network friends of the real user . For example when the message is posted within the publication item the message is not published by the game server to a publication item which is described below in .

Any messages received from the real user from real users who are social network friends of the real user and from virtual users whose IDs are displayed in the environment are received within a portion of a view item. In other embodiments the portion is prevented by the game server from receiving messages from real users other than the real user and from receiving messages from virtual users other than the virtual user . In these embodiments another portion of the view item is designated by the game server for receiving messages from a virtual user other than the virtual user and or a real user other than the real user . In one embodiment the environment excludes the publication item .

The environment includes a number of virtual score keeping objects that includes an amount of virtual animation objects that are accumulated by the virtual user . For example the environment includes a score keeping object that includes a number of points that is accumulated by the virtual user a score keeping object that includes a number of wood logs accumulated by the virtual user a score keeping object that includes an energy level of the virtual user and a score keeping object that includes a game level of the game .

The environment includes a quest that can be achieved by the virtual user . In some embodiments the quest is offered by a virtual user having a virtual user ID . In other embodiments the quest is offered by a real user such as the real user having a real user ID .

The real user selects via the input device of the client device the real user ID . When selected the game server provides option data to the client device and the GPU of the client device renders the option data to display options on the display screen . One of the options that are displayed on the display screen include an option to visit the environment . When the real user selects via the input device of the client device the option to visit the environment in which the virtual user is playing the game the virtual user visits the environment .

The real user is logged on to the web account to access the gaming session that is generated with the request . Moreover after playing the game during the gaming session that is generated with the request the gaming session ends. As an example after playing the game during the gaming session that is generated with the request the real user logs off the web account . When the gaming session that is generated with the request ends the environment excludes the virtual user .

When the real user selects the publication item on the display screen the virtual user approaches the publication item and views the messages and . For example when the real user selects the publication item the virtual user walks to the publication item and the publication item is within a line of sight of the virtual user to allow the virtual user to view the messages and . The game server determines that the virtual user can fulfill the wish in the message of the virtual user . Upon determining so the game server sends data to the client device and the data is rendered by the GPU of the client device to display an offer and to display a text communication that responds to the message . Each of the offer and the text communication is displayed in a balloon. In other embodiments the offer and text communication are displayed within another form such as a square form a polygonal form a rectangular form etc. The offer includes a description of a gift in the form of multimedia. An example of the gift offered in the offer includes a virtual animation object. Another example of the gift offered in the offer includes a virtual animation object that is wished for in the wish list within the publication item . Yet another example of the gift offered in the offer includes a virtual animation object other than one wished for in the wish list of the publication item . Examples of the text communication include Your wish regarding wood logs is fulfilled and here are some wood logs .

In other embodiments the real user is logged on to play the game when the virtual user visits the environment to generate the environment . As an example when the virtual user visits the environment to generate the environment the real user is logged on to the gaming session that is generated with the request . In these embodiments the environment includes the virtual user .

In yet other embodiments regardless of whether the real user is logged on to play the game when the virtual user visits the environment to generate the environment the environment includes the virtual user . In some embodiments the environment excludes the offer or the text communication .

When the real user logs on to another gaming session that is generated with the request to play the game the environment includes the virtual user . When the real user logs on the virtual user accepts the offer and provides a response to the text communication . When the offer is accepted the game server sends acceptance data to the client device and the GPU of the client device renders the acceptance data to display an acceptance of the offer . Moreover when the real user desires to post a reply to the text communication within the portion the real user selects the publication item with the input device of the client device and upon receiving an indication of the selection the game server allows the real user to enter the reply within the portion . An example of the acceptance includes a multimedia that represents the virtual animation object that is accepted by the virtual user . Another example of the acceptance includes text that describes an acceptance of the gift. An example of the reply includes text that describes a reply to the text communication . To illustrate the reply includes Thanks for your kindness or I appreciate you helping me .

In other embodiments the acceptance and or the reply are displayed outside the portion such as within another portion of the publication item . In yet other embodiments the environment is displayed when the real user is still logged on to the web account during the gaming session that is generated with the request . In some embodiments in which the real user is still logged in the web account during the gaming session that is generated with the request the environment includes the virtual user .

In various embodiments the environment excludes the acceptance and or the reply . For example when the environment excludes the offer the environment excludes the acceptance . As another example when the environment excludes the text communication the environment excludes the reply . Rather in these embodiments when the real user logs on to another gaming session that is generated with the request to play the game the virtual animation objects that are offered in the offer are added to a virtual score keeping object such as the score keeping object or the score keeping object within the environment .

The environment is similar to the environment of except that the environment includes a message item instead of the publication item . The message item is owned or leased by the virtual user . The messages and are posted within the message item in a manner similar to that of posting the messages and within the publication item . For example the real user posts the messages within the message item via the input device of the client device to achieve the quest .

The game server publishes any messages posted within the message item to web accounts of real users such as real user that are social network friends of the real user and that are designated by the real user to receive the messages. For example when the message is posted within the message item the game server sends pop up data to the client device and the GPU of the client device renders the pop up data to display a pop up that includes usernames of all social network friends of the real user . In this example the real user selects via the input device of the client device one or more of the usernames to designate web accounts that are associated within the one or more usernames for receiving the messages that are posted by the real user within the message item . Moreover in this example the real user selects the username of the real user to designate the web account to receive the message . In this example the message is published by the game server to a message item which is described below in .

In some embodiments the game server publishes any messages posted within the message item to web accounts of real users such as real user that are social network friends of the real user regardless of whether one or more of the social network friends are designated by the real user for receiving the messages. For example when the message is posted within the message item the message is also published by the game server to the message item which is described below in .

The message item is selected by the real user via the input device of the client device to enter one or more messages within a portion . When the real user is a social network friend of the real user and when the real user posts the message within the message item the game server sends message data of the message to the client device and the GPU of the client device renders the message to display the message within a portion of the message item .

When the real user selects the message item via the input device of the client device the virtual user approaches the message item and views the message . For example the game server expands the message in a pop up window to indicate that the virtual user is reading the message . As another example the game server sends indication data to the client device and the GPU of the client device renders the indication data to display an indication that the message is being read by the virtual user .

Upon reading the message the real user selects the message item via the input device of the client device and enters within the portion an offer for a gift and a text communication . The offer is similar to the offer except that the offer is included within the portion and is not within a balloon. The text communication is similar to the text communication except that the text communication is included within the portion and is not within a balloon.

The real user selects the user ID . When the user ID is selected the game server generates option data that is sent to the client device and the GPU of the client device renders the option data to display an option on the display screen . The option is to send the offer and the text communication to the real user . When the option is selected by the real user via the input device of the client device the game server sends gift offer data that is rendered to display the offer and text communication offer data that is rendered to display the text communication to the web account .

Moreover after playing the game during the gaming session that is generated with the request the gaming session ends. As an example after playing the game during the gaming session that is generated with the request the real user logs off the web account . When the gaming session that is generated with the request ends the environment excludes the virtual user a.

The environment is similar to the environment except that the environment includes the message item instead of the publication item and the environment excludes the virtual user . After the game server sends the data for the offer and text communication to the web account the client device accesses the data from the web account via the network . The GPU of the client device renders the data for the offer and text communication to display the offer and the text communication within the message item . An example of the gift offered in the offer includes a virtual animation object. Another example of the gift offered in the offer includes a virtual animation object that is wished for in the wish list within the message item . Yet another example of the gift offered in the offer includes a virtual animation object other than one wished for in the wish list of the message item .

In other embodiments when the environment is displayed on the display screen the real user is logged on to the web account to play the game . As an example when the environment is displayed on the display screen the real user is logged on to the gaming session that is generated with the request . As another example after the gaming session that is generated with the request ends the real user regains access to the game . When the real user is logged on the environment includes the virtual user . Various ways of regaining access to the game after the gaming session that is generated with the request ends are described above. In some embodiments the environment excludes the offer or the text communication .

When the real user logs on to another gaming session that is generated with the request to play the game the environment includes the virtual user . When the offer and the text communication are displayed the offers the game server sends acceptance data to the client device and the GPU of the client device renders the acceptance data to display an acceptance of the offer by the virtual user . As an example the acceptance includes a multimedia representing the virtual animation object that is offered in the offer . The acceptance is displayed within the portion .

When the acceptance is displayed the real user can select the message item via the input device of the client device . When the selection is received by the game server the game server allows the real user to enter a reply within the message item . The reply is a reply to the text communication . An example of the reply includes text such as thanks for the gift or Thank you so much for the wood . The reply is displayed within the portion .

In some embodiments instead of being displayed within the portion the acceptance and the reply are displayed within another portion such as portion of the message item . In other embodiments data that is rendered to display the acceptance and or the reply is published by the game server to the web account of the real user . For example when the real user is logged on to the gaming session that is accessed with the request or regains access to the game after the gaming session ends the client device requests the data that is rendered to display the acceptance and or reply and the data is rendered by the GPU of the client device within the message item on the display screen .

In some embodiments when the environment is generated the real user is still logged in the web account during the gaming session that is generated with the request .

In various embodiments the environment excludes the acceptance and or the reply . For example when the environment excludes the offer the environment excludes the acceptance . As another example when the environment excludes the text communication the environment excludes the reply . Rather in these embodiments when the real user logs on to another gaming session that is generated with the request to play the game the virtual animation objects that are offered in the offer are added to a virtual score keeping object such as the score keeping object or the score keeping object within the environment .

Moreover after playing the game during the gaming session that is generated with the request the gaming session ends. As an example after playing the game during the gaming session that is generated with the request the real user logs off the web account . When the gaming session that is generated with the request ends the environment excludes the virtual user .

When the real user selects the publication item via the input device of the client device the virtual user approaches the publication item and views the messages and . For example when the real user selects the publication item the virtual user walks to the publication item and the publication item is within a line of sight of the virtual user to allow the virtual user to view the messages and . The game server determines that the virtual user cannot fulfill the wish in the message of the virtual user . For example the message includes that the virtual user wishes to obtain wood logs and the game server determines that the virtual user does not have wood logs within the environment . As another example the message includes that the virtual user wishes to obtain a thousand seeds and the game server determines that the virtual user has less than a thousand seeds within the environment .

In other embodiments the real user is logged on to play the game when the virtual user visits the environment to generate the environment . As an example when the virtual user visits the environment to generate the environment the real user is logged on to the gaming session that is generated with the request . In these embodiments the environment includes the virtual user .

When the option is interfaced with by the real user via the input device of the client device the game server determines whether the interfacing action meets a threshold. For example the game server determines whether the interfacing action includes a selection of the publication item or a hovering over the publication item . In this example the game server determines that the hovering action does not meet the threshold and the selection action meets the threshold. When the interfacing action meets the threshold the virtual user receives an amount of virtual animation objects to fulfill the wishes of the virtual user . For example when the interfacing action meets the threshold the game server adds the amount of virtual animation objects to a score keeping object of the environment . On the other hand when the interfacing action does not meet the threshold the virtual user does not receive virtual animation objects to fulfill the wishes of the virtual user .

In other embodiments when the interfacing action meets the threshold a message that includes multimedia representing the amount of virtual animation objects is included within the publication item . In some embodiments when the interfacing action meets the threshold the score keeping object of the environment is updated to include the number of virtual animation objects and the message is included within the publication item .

Moreover in addition to the virtual user receiving the amount of virtual animation objects the virtual user receives a reward for helping the virtual user . The reward is a virtual animation object or multiple virtual animation objects. For example the virtual user receives ten gold stars or 20 coins or 10 goats or a combination thereof. The reward is added by the game server to a score keeping object of the environment . In some embodiments a message indicating that the virtual user has received an amount of virtual animation objects as a reward is displayed within the publication item 

In other embodiments upon determining that the virtual user cannot fulfill the wish of the virtual user the game server sends option data to the client device and the GPU of the client device renders the option data to generate an option other than the option within the publication item . The other option indicates to the real user that the virtual user can perform a virtual service to obtain a number of virtual products that are in the wish list of the virtual user . When the real user selects the other option via the input device of the client device the game server allows the virtual user to provide the virtual service to the virtual user and provides in return the number of virtual products to the virtual user . The virtual user offers the number of virtual products to the virtual user that accepts the virtual products.

Although the option includes logs in some embodiments the option includes any other virtual animation object. In other embodiments the real user is logged on to play the game when the virtual user visits the environment to generate the environment . As an example when the virtual user visits the environment to generate the environment the real user is logged on to the gaming session that is generated with the request . In these embodiments the environment includes the virtual user .

In yet other embodiments regardless of whether the real user is logged on to play the game when the virtual user visits the environment to generate the environment the environment includes the virtual user .

In several embodiments an amount of virtual animation objects that are provided by the virtual user in response to a wish of the virtual user are greater when the virtual user visits the environment . The amount is greater than an amount of virtual animation objects that are provided by the virtual user in response to a wish of the virtual user when the virtual user does not visit the environment . For example in the embodiment described in the virtual user does not visit the environment and in the embodiment described in the virtual user visits the environment . In this example an amount of virtual animation objects that are offered in the offer is greater than an amount of virtual animation objects that are offered in the offer . As another example in the embodiment described in the virtual user does not visit the environment and in the embodiment described in the virtual user visits the environment . In this example an amount of virtual animation objects that are provided to the virtual user in the embodiment of is greater than an amount of virtual animation objects that are provided in the embodiment of .

It should be noted that although an amount of virtual animation objects are shown in the environments described herein in some embodiments each environment includes any amount of virtual animation objects. For example the environment includes any number of virtual users and or any number of virtual structures. Moreover although types of virtual score keeping objects are shown in the environments described herein in various embodiments each environment includes any type of virtual score keeping objects. For example the environment includes a virtual score keeping object that includes an amount of food that is accumulated by a virtual user during play of a game.

In other embodiments a virtual environment includes any number of virtual game objects. For example the virtual environment includes a higher number of virtual trees than that shown in a higher number of virtual animals than that shown in and or a higher number of virtual users than that shown in . As another example the virtual environment includes a higher number of virtual score keeping objects than that shown in . As yet another example the virtual environment includes an amount of grass accumulated during play of a game. In other embodiments any of the environments described herein include any number of buttons such as user ID buttons.

It is noted that in some embodiments the user IDs and are assigned by the SNS by the game server or a combination thereof to the corresponding real and virtual users. For example the real user ID is assigned to the real user by the SNS and the virtual user ID is assigned by the game server . As another example all the user IDs and are assigned by the game server .

It is further noted that an environment is displayed on a display screen of a client device when the game server sends game data to the client device and a GPU of the client device renders the game data to generate the environment.

It should be noted that in some embodiments in the embodiments described above with reference to thru D and the virtual user is not allowed by the game server to visit the environment of the virtual user .

Moreover in various embodiments the virtual animation objects of the environments and are owned by the virtual user and the virtual animation objects of the environments and are owned by the virtual user . Of course when a virtual user visit an environment owned by another virtual user the other virtual user does not own the visiting virtual user. In other embodiments the virtual animation objects of the environments and are leased by the virtual user and the virtual animation objects of the environments and are leased by the virtual user .

Various embodiments of the present invention are described using text. In other embodiments any other form of multimedia is used instead of text.

Upon determining that message data that is rendered to display the message or the message is received the game server determines that the virtual user lacks the amount of the virtual animation object that is wished for by the virtual user . The game server communicates with the SNS to display a list of friends of the real user on the client device with a prompt. The prompt indicates to the real user whether the real user desires to contact his her social network friends via the SNS to determine whether any of those friends have the amount of the virtual animation object. Upon receiving a selection via the input device of the client device indicating that the real user wishes to contact his her social network friends the SNS posts a message within web accounts of the friends. The message posted indicates that the real user desires to have the amount of virtual animation objects.

When the friends such as the real user of the real user also lack the number of virtual animation objects the friends contact their friends via the SNS . If any of the friends such as the real user have the number of virtual animation objects the friend responds to the real user to indicate that he she has the amount of the virtual animation object. The real user receives the amount of virtual animation object via a game environment from the real user and provides the amount to the virtual user via a game environment. The virtual user then helps the virtual user with the amount of the virtual animation object.

Each player interacts with the social gaming network via one or more client devices e.g. client devices A thru F . The client devices may communicate with each other and with other entities affiliated with the gaming platform via a communications network which is an example of the network . Further the players may be utilizing a social networking service provided by a social networking server e.g. social networking servers to interact with each other.

When a player provides an input into the player s client device the client device may in response send a message via the communications network to the social networking server. The social networking server may update the player profile save the message to a database send messages to other players etc. The social gaming network may include a social graph database which stores player relationships social player profiles player messages and player social data.

The gaming servers host one or more game applications and perform the computations necessary to provide gaming features to the players and client devices A thru F. One or more gaming realm databases store data related to the gaming services such as the game applications and modules virtual gaming environment realm data player gaming session data player scores player virtual gaming profiles game stage levels etc. The gaming servers may utilize the data from the gaming realm databases to perform the computations related to providing gaming services for the players . In some implementations a server load database stores gaming server load statistics such as computational load server responses times etc.

The social gaming network may include one or more load balancing servers and one or more live interaction servers . The live interaction servers monitor which players are online and determine if a player s neighbors are currently online. This allows live interactions between players as described below in more detail with reference to . In one embodiment a social data cache stores some of the graph data related to player game links e.g. neighbors for fast access to the social data.

The gaming servers are used to execute the online games and hold the gaming data which can be shared with social networking servers and live interaction servers . The game data e.g. game updates may be sent periodically without responding to a request or might be sent in response to a request or might be sent in combination piggy backed with other information exchanged between the servers e.g. game progress or activities data . In one embodiment live interaction servers periodically poll gaming servers requesting the list of players that are online playing the game or the list of neighbors of a particular player that are currently online. In one embodiment polling is performed every 15 seconds and in another embodiment the polling interval is in the range between 5 seconds and 5 minutes although other values are also possible.

In one embodiment communications between the players are managed by the live interaction servers . A first player knows that a second player is online because the live interaction servers have notified the first player that the second player is online playing the game of course the first player and the second player are friends in the online game . When the first player sends a message to the second player the game of the first player sends the message to the live interaction servers which forward the message to the game of the second player. Similarly when the second player wants to send a message to the first player the message is sent through live interaction servers .

In another embodiment the game update information sent by the gaming servers includes information regarding the players playing a particular game as well as information regarding users that are playing other online games. This way a player may receive information about the neighbors that are playing the same online game or about the neighbors that are playing other online games. The game updates sent from the gaming servers include information regarding the status of the neighbor s game. The status may include score current activities requests for help recent progress made in the game sign on and sign off information etc.

Live interaction servers keep track of which neighbors are online at a given time. Live interaction servers analyze the game updates received from gaming servers and create social game data to inform users of neighbor s activities. These activities may include information on which neighbors are online neighbor s recent activities e.g. game progress news etc.

It should be noted that any of the social networking servers the live interaction servers and the load balancing servers is an example of the SNS and any of the gaming servers is an example of the game server . In other embodiments in which the game server is used without using the SNS any of the social networking servers the live interaction servers the load balancing servers and the gaming servers is an example of the game server .

It is noted that the embodiments illustrated in are exemplary. Other embodiments may utilize different server configurations divide the tasks differently among the servers or exchange information between servers in different forms. The embodiments illustrated in should therefore not be interpreted to be exclusive or limiting but rather exemplary or illustrative.

In one embodiment game server provides a user interface for players to play the online game. In one embodiment game server includes a Web server for players to access the game via a web browser but the Web server may also be hosted in a server different from game server . Network which is an example of the network interconnects players with the one or more game servers .

Each game server has access to one or more game databases for storing game data. In addition a single database can store game data for one or more online games. Each game server may also include one or more levels of caching. Game data cache is a game data cache for the game data stored in game databases . For increased performance caching may be performed in several levels of caching. For instance data more frequently used is stored in a high priority cache while data requiring less access during a session will be cached and updated less frequently.

The number of game servers changes over time as the gaming platform is an extensible platform that changes the number of game servers according to the load on the gaming infrastructure. As a result the number of game servers will be higher during peak playing times and the number of game servers will be lower during off peak hours. In one embodiment the increase or decrease of bandwidth is executed automatically based on current line usage or based on historical data.

One or more social network management servers provide support for the social features incorporated into the online games. The social network management servers access social data from one or more social networks via Application Programming Interfaces API made available by the social network providers. Each social network includes social data and this social data or a fraction of the social data is made available via API . As in the case of the game servers the number of social network management servers that are active at a point in time changes according to the load on the infrastructure. As the demand for social data increases the number of social network management servers increases. Social network management servers cache user data in database and social data in database . The social data might include the social networks where a player is present the social relationships for the player the frequency of interaction of the player with the social network and with other players etc. Additionally the user data kept in database may include the player s name demographics e mail games played frequency of access to the game infrastructure etc.

It is noted that the embodiment illustrated in is an exemplary online gaming infrastructure. Other embodiments may utilize different types of servers databases APIs etc. and the functionality of several servers can be provided by a single server or the functionality can be spread across a plurality of distributed servers. The embodiment illustrated in should therefore not be interpreted to be exclusive or limiting but rather exemplary or illustrative.

One or more links couple a server or a client to network . In particular embodiments one or more links each includes one or more wireline wireless or optical links . In particular embodiments one or more links each includes an intranet an extranet a VPN a LAN a WLAN a WAN a MAN a portion of the Internet or another link or a combination of two or more such links .

Each server may be a stand alone server or may be a distributed server spanning multiple computers or multiple datacenters. Servers may be of various types such as for example and without limitation web server news server mail server message server advertising server file server application server exchange server database server or proxy server. Each server may include hardware software embedded logic components or a combination of two or more such components for carrying out the appropriate functionalities implemented or supported by server . For example a web server is generally capable of hosting websites containing web pages or particular elements of web pages. More specifically a web server may host hypertext markup language HTML files or other file types or may dynamically create or constitute files upon a request and communicate them to clients in response to HTTP or other requests from clients . A mail server is generally capable of providing electronic mail services to various clients . A database server is generally capable of providing an interface for managing data stored in one or more data stores.

In particular embodiments one or more data storages may be communicatively linked to one or more severs via one or more links . Data storages may be used to store various types of information. The information stored in data storages may be organized according to specific data structures. In particular embodiments each data storage may be a relational database. Particular embodiments may provide interfaces that enable servers or clients to manage e.g. retrieve modify add or delete the information stored in data storage .

In particular embodiments each client may be an electronic device including hardware software or embedded logic components or a combination of two or more such components and capable of carrying out the appropriate functionalities implemented or supported by client . For example and without limitation a client may be a desktop computer system a notebook computer system a netbook computer system a handheld electronic device or a mobile telephone. A client may enable a network player at client to access network . A client may enable a player to communicate with other players at other clients . Further each client may be a computing device such as a desktop computer or a work station or a mobile device such as a notebook computer a network computer or a smart telephone.

In particular embodiments a client may have a web browser and may have one or more add ons plug ins or other extensions. A player at client may enter a Uniform Resource Locator URL or other address directing the web browser to a server and the web browser may generate a Hyper Text Transfer Protocol HTTP request and communicate the HTTP request to server . Server may accept the HTTP request and communicate to client one or more Hyper Text Markup Language HTML files responsive to the HTTP request. Client may render a web page based on the HTML files from server for presentation to the user. The present disclosure contemplates any suitable web page files. As an example and not by way of limitation web pages may render from HTML files Extensible Hyper Text Markup Language XHTML files or Extensible Markup Language XML files according to particular needs. Such pages may also execute scripts such as for example and without limitation those written in JavaScript Java Microsoft Silverlight combinations of markup language and scripts such as AJAX Asynchronous JAVASCRIPT and XML and the like. Herein reference to a web page encompasses one or more corresponding web page files which a browser may use to render the web page and vice versa where appropriate.

Web browser may be adapted for the type of client where the web browser executes. For example a web browser residing on a desktop computer may differ e.g. in functionalities from a web browser residing on a mobile device. A user of a social networking system may access the website via web browser .

In some embodiments software running on one or more computer systems performs one or more operations of one or more methods described or illustrated herein or provides functionality described or illustrated herein. Although methods for implementing embodiments were described with a particular sequence of operations it is noted that the method operations may be performed in different order or the timing for the execution of operations may be adjusted or the operations may be performed in a distributed system by several entities as long as the processing of the operations are performed in the desired way.

As example and not by way of limitation computer system may be an embedded computer system a system on chip SOC a single board computer system SBC such as for example a client device a computer on module COM or system on module SOM a desktop computer system a laptop or notebook computer system an interactive kiosk a mainframe a mesh of computer systems a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a server or a combination of two or more of these. Where appropriate computer system may include one or more computer systems be stand alone or distributed span multiple locations span multiple machines or reside in a cloud which may include one or more cloud components in one or more networks. The one or more computer systems may perform in real time or in batch mode one or more operations of one or more methods described or illustrated herein.

In particular embodiments computer system includes a processor memory storage an input output I O interface a communication interface and a bus . Although the present disclosure describes and illustrates a particular computer system having a particular number of particular components in a particular arrangement embodiments of the invention may be implemented with any suitable computer system having any suitable number of any suitable components in any suitable arrangement.

In particular embodiments processor includes hardware for executing instructions such as those making up a computer program. As an example and not by way of limitation to execute instructions processor may retrieve or fetch the instructions from an internal register an internal cache memory or storage decode and execute them and then write one or more results to an internal register an internal cache memory or storage . The present disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal registers where appropriate. Where appropriate processor may include one or more arithmetic logic units ALUs be a multi core processor or include one or more processors . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular processor this disclosure contemplates any suitable processor.

In particular embodiments memory includes main memory for storing instructions for processor to execute or data that can be manipulated by processor . As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may load instructions from storage or another source such as for example another computer system to memory . Processor may then load the instructions from memory to an internal register or internal cache. During or after execution of the instructions processor may write one or more results which may be intermediate or final results to the internal register or internal cache. Processor may then write one or more of those results to memory . One or more memory buses which may each include an address bus and a data bus may couple processor to memory . Bus may include one or more memory buses as described below. One or more memory management units MMUs reside between processor and memory and facilitate accesses to memory requested by processor . Memory includes a RAM a ROM or a combination thereof.

As an example and not by way of limitation storage may include a hard disk HD a floppy disk a flash memory an optical disc a magneto optical disc a magnetic tape or a combination of two or more of these. Storage may include removable or non removable or fixed media where appropriate. In particular embodiments storage includes a ROM. Where appropriate this ROM may be mask programmed ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable PROM EPROM electrically erasable PROM EEPROM electrically alterable ROM EAROM or flash memory or a combination of two or more of these.

In particular embodiments I O interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication between computer system and one or more I O devices such as a display device and an input device. A display device includes a display screen. Examples of a display device include an LCD device an LED display device a plasma display device and a CRT display device. One or more of these I O devices may enable communication between a user and computer system . As an example and not by way of limitation an I O device may include an input device an output device or a combination thereof. Examples of the I O device include a keyboard a keypad a microphone a monitor a mouse a printer a scanner a speaker a still camera a stylus a touchscreen a trackball or a combination of two or more of these.

Communication interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication between computer system and one or more other computer systems on one or more networks. As an example and not by way of limitation communication interface may include a network interface controller NIC or network adapter for communicating with an Ethernet or other wire based network or a wireless NIC WNIC or wireless adapter for communicating with a wireless network such as a Wi Fi network. As an example computer system may communicate with a wireless personal area network WPAN such as for example a Bluetooth WPAN a Wi Fi network a worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX network a cellular telephone network such as for example a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM network or other suitable wireless network or a combination of two or more of these. As another example the communication interface includes a network interface card or a modem.

In particular embodiments bus includes hardware software or both coupling components of computer system to each other. As an example and not by way of limitation bus may include an Accelerated Graphics Port AGP or other graphics bus an Enhanced Industry Standard Architecture EISA bus a front side bus FSB a HyperTransport HT interconnect an Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus an Infiniband interconnect a low pin count LPC bus a memory bus a Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus a PCI Express PCI X bus a serial advanced technology attachment SATA bus a Video Electronics Standards Association local VLB bus or another suitable bus or a combination of two or more of these. Bus may include one or more buses where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular bus this disclosure contemplates any suitable bus or interconnect.

Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium encompasses one or more non transitory tangible computer readable storage media possessing structure that may store a computer program a module information bit stream identifier signature context object client state or data. As an example and not by way of limitation a computer readable storage medium may include a semiconductor based or other integrated circuit IC such as for example an FPGA or an ASIC a hard disk an optical disc a magneto optical disc a floppy disk a magnetic tape a holographic storage medium a solid state disk SSD a RAM a Secure Digital card or another suitable computer readable storage medium or a combination of two or more of these where appropriate. In some embodiments any of the functions described herein are stored on one or more computer readable storage media that is accessed by one or more processors to perform the functions.

The computer readable storage medium is any data storage device or a memory device that can store data which can be thereafter be read by a computer. Examples of the computer readable storage medium include hard drives network attached storage NAS ROM random access memory compact disc ROMs CD ROMs CD recordables CD Rs CD rewritables RWs magnetic tapes and other optical and non optical data storage devices. In some embodiments the computer readable storage medium can be distributed over a network coupled computer system so that the computer readable code is stored and executed in a distributed fashion.

Embodiments of the present invention may be practiced with various computer system configurations including hand held devices microprocessor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics minicomputers mainframe computers and the like. The embodiments can also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a wire based or wireless network.

With the above embodiments in mind it should be understood that the embodiments can employ various computer implemented operations involving data stored in computer systems. These operations are those requiring physical manipulation of physical quantities. Any of the operations described herein that form part of the embodiments of the present invention are useful machine operations. The embodiments of the present invention also relate to a device or an apparatus for performing these operations. The apparatus can be specially constructed for a specific purpose. The apparatus is selectively activated or configured by a computer program stored in the computer.

Although the foregoing invention has been described in some detail for purposes of clarity of understanding it will be apparent that certain changes and modifications can be practiced within the scope of the appended claims. Accordingly the present embodiments are to be considered as illustrative and not restrictive and the invention is not to be limited to the details given herein but may be modified within the scope and equivalents of the appended claims.

