---

title: Method for modifying the refractive index of ocular tissues
abstract: The invention is directed to a method for correcting vision in a patient by modifying the refractive index of cornea tissue. The method comprises identifying and measuring the degree of vision correction of the patient; and determining the position and type of refractive structures to be written into the cornea tissue of the patient to correct the patient's vision. The refractive structures are written by irradiating select regions of the cornea tissue with focused laser pulses having a wavelength from 400 nm to 900 nm and a pulse energy from 0.01 nJ to 10 nJ. The refractive structures are characterized by a positive change in refractive index in relation to non-irradiated cornea tissue of the patient.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08512320&OS=08512320&RS=08512320
owner: University of Rochester
number: 08512320
owner_city: Rochester
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130308
---
This patent application is a divisional application that claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 120 of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 146 976 filed Jun. 26 2008 which in turn claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 e to U.S. provisional application Ser. No. 60 929 397 filed Jun. 26 2007 and U.S. provisional application Ser. No. 61 026 890 filed Feb. 7 2008 whose disclosures are hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties into the present disclosure.

The U.S. Government has a paid up license in this invention and the right in limited circumstances to require the patent owner to license others on reasonable terms as provided for by the terms of Contract No. R01 EY015836 and Grant No. 08P0EY01319F awarded by the National Institutes of Health.

The present invention relates to a method of using a laser to modify the refractive index of ocular tissues e.g. the corneal stromal layer or lens cortex for vision correction.

Conventional ultraviolet nanosecond excimer lasers have been very successfully used for corneal refractive surgery such as photorefractive keratectomy PRK laser assisted in situ keratomileusis LASIK and laser sub epithelial keratomileusis LASEK . By ablating corneal tissue through direct one photon absorption of ultraviolet light these lasers are able to alter the curvature and thickness of corneas ultimately altering their optical power.

The rapid development of femtosecond laser technology has provided an additional tool for corneal refractive surgery. In contrast to the photo ablative ultraviolet lasers femtosecond laser pulses in the near infrared or visible range can pass through transparent corneal tissue without significant one photon absorption. Only when pulses are focused inside the cornea is the intensity of the beam sufficient to cause nonlinear typically multi photon absorption. Because the absorption is nonlinear the laser affected region tends to be highly localized leaving the surrounding region unaffected or minimally affected. See Vogel A Noack J Huttman G Paltauf G Mechanisms of femtosecond laser nanosurgery of cells and tissues. 2005 81 1015 47 Loesel F H Niemz M H Bille J F Juhasz T Laser induced optical breakdown on hard and soft tissue and its dependence on the pulse duration experiment and model. 1996 32 1717 22 and Giguere D Olivie G Vidal F et al. Laser ablation threshold dependence on pulse duration for fused silica and corneal tissues experiments and modeling 2007 24 1562 68.

In the past two decades extensive experimental and theoretical work has been done to characterize laser induced optical breakdown thresholds in different materials including the cornea and the lens. Most of this work however centered on the use of continuous wave CW lasers or on single pulses from low repetition rate lasers in which thermal diffusion time is much shorter than the time interval between adjacent pulses. Thus each pulse is responsible for a change in the material. Indeed it has been established that for pulses longer than 10 ps the optical breakdown threshold fluence scales as the square root of the pulse duration. To date most femtosecond lasers used to cut corneas in clinical practice use microJoule J femtosecond laser pulses with a low repetition rate Hz kHz range and spot diameters of more than 5 microns m . See Kurtz R M Horvath C Liu H H Krueger R R Juhasz T Lamellar refractive surgery with scanned intrastromal picosecond and femtosecond laser pulses in animal eyes 1998 14 541 48 and Juhasz T Loesel C Horvath C Kurtz R M Mourou G Corneal refractive surgery with femtosecond lasers 1999 5 902 09.

This contrasts with the range of femtosecond laser parameters that have been established for biomedical applications. See Loesel F H Niemz M H Bille J F Juhasz T Laser induced optical breakdown on hard and soft tissue and its dependence on the pulse duration experiment and model 1996 32 1717 22. Compared with the low repetition rate femtosecond lasers with J or milliJoule mJ pulse energies high repetition rate 1 MHz femtosecond laser oscillators usually have pulse energies on the order of nanoJoule nJ . Such low pulse energy femtosecond lasers have been used for both micromachining and nanosurgery. See K nig K Krauss O Riemann I Intratissue surgery with 80 MHz nanojoule femtosecond laser pulses in the near infrared 2002 10 171 76.

While most femtosecond laser surgical procedures involve by definition some sort of disruption either affecting membranes organelles or other cellular components they can be performed with such precision and selectivity so as not to kill the cells. Recently research within our group on both silicone and non silicone based hydrogels demonstrates that femtosecond micromachining works by inducing a significant change in refractive index of the materials without visible plasma luminescence or bubble formation and without the generation of undesirable scattering or absorbing centers. See U.S. patent application Ser. Nos. 11 745 746 filed May 8 2007 and 11 948 298 filed Nov. 30 2007. Our success with creating refractive structures in hydrogel materials led us to explore whether similar type structures could be created in ocular tissues.

There exists an ongoing need for ways to improve or correct vision. Changing the refractive index of ocular tissues e.g. the corneal stromal layer or lens cortex using a femtosecond laser without tissue destruction or wound healing response would represent a major advance in the field of laser refractive correction or vision correction generally.

The invention is directed to a method for correcting vision in a patient by modifying the refractive index of cornea tissue. The method comprises identifying and measuring the degree of vision correction of the patient and determining the position and type of refractive structures to be written into the cornea tissue of the patient to correct the patient s vision. The refractive structures are written by irradiating select regions of the cornea tissue with focused laser pulses having a wavelength from 400 nm to 900 nm and a pulse energy from 0.01 nJ to 10 nJ. The refractive structures are characterized by a positive change in refractive index in relation to non irradiated cornea tissue of the patient.

The use of high repetition rate femtosecond laser pulses can result in cumulative free electron mediated chemical effects photochemical bond breaking and thermal effects which can contribute to the laser tissue interaction. As a result the breakdown threshold fluence may be quite different from that predicted by current models. See Vogel et al. 2005 81 1015 47. Several studies on the effects of high repetition rate femtosecond lasers on fused silica and borosilicate glass have found that laser pulses greatly increased the temperature of the materials at the laser focus. See Eaton et al 2005 13 4708 16. Vogel calculated the temperature change in water would be 10 K with a 0.6 NA focusing lens and 100 fs laser pulses assuming that with each pulse an energy density of 1 J cmat the center of the initial temperature distribution is deposited.

Using very high repetition rate 93 MHz ultra short laser pulses 27 fs we determined that the optical breakdown threshold for the 0.70 NA focusing condition in lightly fixed corneal stroma and lens cortex to be 55 mW and 75 mW average laser power 0.6 nJ and 0.8 nJ pulse energies respectively. For both corneal stromal and lens cortex both values are lower than the optical breakdown power reported by K nig and colleagues using 1 nJ pulse energy 170 fs pulse duration and 1.30 NA focusing in porcine corneas. See K nig et al Optics Express 2002 10 3 171 76. By using 30 mW and 45 mW average laser power 0.3 nJ and 0.5 nJ pulses we discovered that one can induce Intra tissue Refractive Index Shaping IRIS without accompanying photo disruption and tissue destruction.

We adapted our femtosecond micromachining approach with hydrogel materials to carry out IRIS in biological tissues. We initially measured the optical breakdown thresholds of lightly fixed cat corneas and lenses. We then reduced femtosecond laser pulse energies below these optical breakdown thresholds to create grating patterns that are associated with a change in the refractive index of the tissue. Our investigation has led to the development of a process to modify the refractive index of ocular tissue e.g. corneal stromal layer and lens cortex without apparent tissue destruction. Accordingly a determination of the appropriate laser parameters is important for achieving IRIS in biological tissues. Not only does the femtosecond laser fluence at the objective focus have to be below the optical breakdown threshold of the tissue the laser fluence must be strong enough to induce nonlinear changes in the tissues. Moreover the scan speed must be set within a specified range.

The process involves irradiating the ocular tissue with a low pulse energy MHz femtosecond laser. If very short laser pulses having a very select energy are tightly focused on ocular tissue the high intensity of light leads to a change in the refractive index of the ocular tissue at the focus point. Moreover the region of the ocular tissue just outside the focal region is minimally affected by the laser light. As a result select regions of ocular tissue can be modified resulting in a change in the refractive index in these regions. Moreover the long term stability of the observed change in refractive index suggests permanent molecular and or structural changes to the ocular tissue.

Accordingly the invention is directed to a method for modifying the refractive index of ocular tissue. The method comprises irradiating select regions of biological tissue with a focused visible or near IR laser. The irradiated regions exhibit little or no scattering loss which means that the structures formed in the irradiated regions are not clearly visible under appropriate magnification without contrast enhancement.

To date the determined change in refractive index induced in cornea and lens tissue using the described process is relatively small but very significant. Based on published values for the power 39 D and native refractive index 1.376 of the cat cornea IRIS should generate a change in corneal power ranging between 0.14 D and 0.56 D assuming an index change between 0.005 and 0.02 . Similarly for the cat lens power 53 D refractive index of the homogeneous lens 1.554 the refractive index changes induced by micromachining should theoretically alter lenticular power by between 0.5 D and 0.7 D. The laser process described could completely alter the approach to laser refractive surgery and to vision correction.

In addition the preservation of tissue clarity during the treatment allows the application of IRIS for the creation of corneal fiducial markings that could be used to align eye trackers during LASIK and for refractive corrections in a closed loop approach e.g. with specific benefit for the correction of higher order aberrations as well as for touch up corrections of ocular surface defects. Various types of refractive structures can be created in biological tissues. Examples include high refractive index structures such as Bragg gratings microlens arrays optical zone plates and Fresnel lenses.

As stated the determination and selection of the laser operating parameters are particularly important in implementing IRIS. The inventors have found that various ranges of parameters are particularly useful in implementing the present invention. In treatment of the eye the laser wavelength should be such that the tissues through which laser pulses pass are transparent to the pulses. There should also be no damage to the retina any change should be confined to the tissue located at the spot of focus of the pulses. Also for non destructive alteration of ocular tissue a COlaser or excimer laser should not be used since there should be no ablation or removal of the tissue.

A laser pulse frequency from 1 MHz to 10 GHz and preferably from 10 to 500 MHz should be used. For example our work used a laser pulse frequency repetition rate of 93 MHz.

Linked to the pulse frequency is the average laser power. A preferable average laser power is from 1 mW to 1 000 mW preferably 10 mW to 100 mW and more preferably from 30 mW to 70 mW.

The energy of each pulse should be in a range from 0.01 nJ to 10 nJ preferably from 0.1 nJ to 2 nJ and more preferably be less than 1 nJ. For example we have determined that a pulse energy from 0.1 nJ to 0.5 nJ is particularly preferred.

Although we used a laser pulse width of 30 fs one can likely operate within a range from 5 fs to 1 ps and more preferably from 10 fs to 100 fs. Also the scanning speed of the laser is preferably 0.4 m s though depending on the equipment types of structures to be written and type of tissue scan speeds in a range from 0.1 m s to 10 mm s can be used. The laser pulses were focused to a spot size of about 1 m though a range of spot size from 0.5 m to 50 m from 0.5 m to 10 m from 0.5 m to 5 m could be used.

The pulse energy of the focused laser used in the method will in part depend on the type of structures to be written into the ocular tissue the type of ocular tissue and how much of a change in refractive index is desired. The selected pulse energy will also depend upon the scan rate at which the structures are written into the ocular tissue. Typically greater pulse energies will be needed for greater scan rates.

The pulse width must be preserved so that the pulse peak power is strong enough to exceed the nonlinear absorption threshold of the ocular tissue. However the glass of the focusing objective s significantly increases the pulse width due to the positive dispersion of the glass. A compensation scheme is used to provide a corresponding negative dispersion that can compensate for the positive dispersion introduced by the focusing objective s . Accordingly the term focused in this application refers to the focusing of light from a laser within ocular tissue using a compensation scheme to correct for the positive dispersion introduced by the focusing objective s . The compensation scheme can include an optical arrangement selected from the group consisting of at least two prisms and at least one mirror at least two diffraction gratings a chirped mirror and dispersion compensating mirrors to compensate for the positive dispersion introduced by the focus objective.

The wavelength should as noted above be one to which the tissues through which the laser pulses must pass are transparent. It should also preferably be just barely within the visible range for the patient or outside of the visible range e.g. near infrared so as not to bother the patient. A wavelength of 800 nm is useful preferable ranges include 600 1 000 nm and more preferably 700 900 nm and above 1 000 nm.

In one embodiment the compensation scheme comprises at least one prism in many cases at least two prisms and at least one mirror to compensate for the positive dispersion of the focusing objective. In another embodiment the compensation scheme comprises at least two gratings to compensate for the positive dispersion of the focusing objective. Any combination of prisms gratings and or mirrors can be used for the compensation scheme in accordance with optical principles known by those of ordinary skill in the art.

The laser will generate light with a wavelength in the range from violet to near infrared radiation. In various embodiments the wavelength of the laser is in the range from 400 nm to 1500 nm from 400 nm to 1200 nm or from 600 nm to 900 nm.

In one particular embodiment the laser is a pumped Ti sapphire laser with an average power of 10 mW to 1000 mW. Such a laser system will generate light with a wavelength of approximately 800 nm. In another embodiment an amplified fiber laser that can generate light with a wavelength from 1000 nm to 1600 nm can be used

The laser will have a peak intensity at focus of greater than 10W cm. At times it may be advantageous to provide a laser with a peak intensity at focus of greater than 10W cm or greater than 10W cm.

The irradiated regions of the ocular tissue are defined by two or three dimensional structures. The two or three dimensional structures can comprise an array of discrete cylinders. Alternatively the two or three dimensional structures can comprise a series of lines a grating or a combination of an array of cylinders and a series of lines. Moreover the two or three dimensional structures can comprise area or volume filled structures respectively. These area or volume filled structures are formed by continuously scanning the laser over a select plane or volume of the ocular tissue respectively. As stated various types of refractive structures can be created in biological tissues. Examples include high refractive index structures such as lenses prisms Bragg gratings microlens arrays optical zone plates and Fresnel lenses.

The area filled or volume filled two or three dimensional structures can be formed by continuously scanning the laser over selected regions of the ocular tissue. Refractive type optical devices can be micro machined inside the volume of ocular tissue by repeatedly scanning a tightly focused beam of femtosecond pulses in an area segment. The area of the segment can be changed correspondingly with the depth of the scan so as to produce three dimensionally shaped lenses with spheric aspheric toroidal or cylindrical shapes as shown in . Alternatively refractive corrective lenses can be made in various combinations of convex plano or concave to yield a positive correction or negative correction as shown in . The refractive optical devices can be stacked vertically written separately in different planes so as to act as a single lens. Additional corrective layers can be written as desired.

In one embodiment the irradiated regions of the ocular tissue are defined by a series of lines in an approximately two dimensional plane having a width from 0.2 m to 3 m preferably a width from 0.6 m to 1.5 m and a height from 0.4 m to 8 m preferably a height from 1.0 m to 4 m height is measured in the z direction which is parallel to direction of the laser light . For example one can generate a line grating comprising a plurality of lines with each line of any desired length about 0.8 m to about 1.5 m in width and about 2 m to 5 m in height. The lines can be separated by as little as 1.0 m 0.5 m spacing and any number of lines can be incorporated into the ocular tissue. Moreover the grating can be positioned at any selected depth z direction and any number of line gratings can be generated at various depths into the ocular tissue.

In one embodiment the irradiated portions of corneal stromal layer will exhibit a change in refractive index of about 0.001 to about 0.02 and typically about 0.01 or more. Based on published values for the power 39 D and native refractive index 1.376 of the cat cornea the refractive index changes induced by micromachining should generate a change in corneal power ranging between 0.14 D and 0.28 D assuming that refractive index change affects the thickness of the cornea uniformly .

In another embodiment the irradiated portions of lens cortex will exhibit a change in refractive index of about 0.005 to about 0.03 and typically about 0.01 or more.

Our work demonstrates that it is possible to cause low scattering loss refractive index modifications in lightly fixed cat cornea and lens using 93 MHz repetition rate 27 fs laser pulses with 0.3 nJ and 0.5 nJ pulse energies. These modifications were visible only using DIC microscopy and were not associated with apparent tissue damage. The resulting modifications correspond to refractive index changes between 0.05 0.001 and 0.021 0.001. Preservation of IRIS over a month of refrigerated storage suggested that the femtosecond laser induced modifications were likely to involve relatively long term molecular structural alterations. In related experiments involving silicone hydrogels the micromachined gratings and associated Raman spectra are stable for at least one year even after drying and rehydration of the hydrogel.

A non limiting embodiment of a laser system for irradiating ocular tissue with a laser to modify the refractive index of the tissue in select regions is represented in . A laser source comprises a Kerr lens mode locked Ti Sapphire laser Kapteyn Murnane Labs Boulder Colo. pumped by 4 W of green light from a frequency doubled Nd YVOlaser . The laser generates pulses of 300 mW average power 30 fs pulse width and 93 MHz repetition rate at wavelength of 800 nm. Because there is a reflective power loss from the mirrors and prisms in the optical path and in particular from the power loss of the objective the measured average laser power at the objective focus on the material is about 120 mW which indicates the pulse energy for the femtosecond laser is about 1.3 nJ.

Due to the limited laser pulse energy at the objective focus the pulse width must be preserved so that the pulse peak power is strong enough to exceed the nonlinear absorption threshold of the ocular tissue. Because the glass inside the focusing objective significantly increases the pulse width due to the positive dispersion inside of the glass an extra cavity compensation scheme is used to provide the negative dispersion that compensates for the positive dispersion introduced by the focusing objective. Two SF10 prisms 24 and 28 and one ending mirror form a two pass one prism pair configuration. We used a 37.5 cm separation distance between the prisms to compensate the dispersion of the microscope objective and other optics within the optical path. A collinear autocorrelator using third order harmonic generation is used to measure the pulse width at the objective focus. Both 2nd and 3rd harmonic generation have been used in autocorrelation measurements for low NA or high NA objectives. We selected third order surface harmonic generation THG autocorrelation to characterize the pulse width at the focus of the high numerical aperture objectives because of its simplicity high signal to noise ratio and lack of material dispersion that second harmonic generation SHG crystals usually introduce. The THG signal is generated at the interface of air and an ordinary cover slip Corning No. 0211 Zinc Titania glass and measured with a photomultiplier and a lock in amplifier . After using a set of different high numerical aperture objectives and carefully adjusting the separation distance between the two prisms and the amount of glass inserted we selected a transform limited 27 fs duration pulse which is focused by a 60 0.70 NA Olympus LUCPlanFLN long working distance objective .

Because the laser beam will spatially diverge after it comes out of the laser cavity a concave mirror pair and is added into the optical path in order to adjust the dimension of the laser beam so that the laser beam can optimally fills the objective aperture. A 3 D 100 nm resolution DC servo motor stage Newport VP 25XA linear stage and a 2 D 0.7 nm resolution piezo nanopositioning stage PI P 622.2CD piezo stage are controlled and programmed by a computer as a scanning platform to support and locate the samples. The servo stages have a DC servo motor so they can move smoothly between adjacent steps. An optical shutter controlled by the computer with 1 ms time resolution is installed in the system to precisely control the laser exposure time. With customized computer programs the optical shutter could be operated with the scanning stages to micro machine different patterns in the materials with different scanning speed at different position and depth and different laser exposure time. In addition a CCD camera along with a monitor is used beside the objective to monitor the process in real time.

The method and optical apparatus described above can be used to modify the refractive index of ocular tissue as follows. The first step in our micromachining experiment was to establish thresholds for the optical breakdown of lightly fixed feline cornea and lens cortex. The neutral density filter was first adjusted to minimize the focused incident laser power on the cornea and the lens below their breakdown thresholds. The incident laser power was then progressively increased by adjusting the neutral density filter. The breakdown threshold power was considered to be reached when visible plasma luminescence suddenly appeared and strong scattering light as well as laser induced damage became visible see and . Using the 0.70 NA long working distance objective in our system the measured breakdown thresholds for cat cornea and lens was about 55 mW and 75 mW average laser power respectively which corresponds to a pulse energy of 0.6 nJ and 0.8 nJ respectively.

Once tissue breakdown thresholds were established the focused laser power was lowered gradually by carefully adjusting the neutral density filter until lines could be micromachined without the induction of bubbles or burns. We determined an average laser power setting of 30 mW for the cornea which corresponds to a pulse energy of about 0.3 nJ.

The gratings were micromachined in the horizontal plane within the stromal layer of each corneal piece at a constant speed of 0.7 m s. The gratings consisted of 20 40 parallel lines 100 m long 1 m linewidth 5 m apart and about 100 m beneath the corneal epithelium. Likewise gratings were micromachined in the horizontal plane within the cortex of each lens at a constant speed of 1.0 m s. The gratings again consisted of 20 40 parallel lines 100 m long 1 m linewidth 5 m apart and about 100 m beneath the lenticular surface. The spherical aberration at the laser focus induced by refractive index mismatch was compensated by an adjustable cover slip correction of the focusing microscope objective in order to achieve the smallest possible laser affected region along the laser propagation direction.

After writing the observed structures in both corneal stroma and lens cortex we assessed whether the micromachined gratings are associated with a change in refractive index of the two different tissues. Immediately after micromachining the slide containing the corneal piece and lens cortex was examined under an Olympus BX51 optical microscope. Bright field phase contrast PC and differential interference contrast DIC were used to view the gratings. The slide was then moved to another setup where a low power 632.8 nm He Ne laser was used to irradiate the gratings. The diffraction pattern from each grating was captured by a digital camera. The refractive index changes attained were calculated as described previously. See Ding L Blackwell R K nzler J F Knox W H Large refractive index change in silicone based and non silicone based hydrogel polymers induced by femtosecond laser micro machining Optics Express 2006 14 11901 909.

In brief the intensity of 0th order to 3rd order of diffracted light from the gratings was measured by a power meter. The different order diffraction efficiencies was obtained by calculating the ratios between the intensity of 1st 2nd and 3rd to 0th order diffraction light. Because only one particular value of the refractive index change matches one particular diffraction efficiency value one could calculate the index change within the femtosecond laser micromachined regions. We note that several factors could affect the results such as the accuracy of measurement for the different diffraction order intensities and the measurements of grating linewidth and thickness. To reduce measurement error of the diffraction order intensities we took five measurements on each grating and calculated the average value and the standard deviation of the results. In principle the spatial distribution of the refractive index change within the micromachined region was a small scale gradient index structure. For the purpose of this investigation however we presumed the index profile to be uniform within the grating lines which were only 3 m deep because the spherical aberration at the focal point was corrected.

The micromachined cat cornea and lens pieces were then removed from the glass slides after discarding the cover slips and stored in the ethylene glycol sucrose solution at 4 C. After one month each corneal piece and lens piece was mounted onto a new glass slide for imaging and the diffraction light intensity measurement was repeated. This allowed us to assess whether the refractive index change initially observed had been maintained during storage.

Exposure of lightly fixed cat corneal to 0.3 nJ femtosecond laser pulses 30 mW average laser power resulted in the reliable creation of grating patterns about 100 m below the epithelial surface in all test samples even when they were obtained from different cats. When imaged immediately after micromachining individual grating lines could be clearly observed and distinguished with DIC microscopy but they were practically invisible when viewed under bright field transmission microscopy . This could be interpreted as the grating lines having very low scattering properties which is in great contrast to the destructive tissue changes observed when laser energy was increased above the optical breakdown threshold levels spots in . Using the knife edge method we ascertained that the laser focus diameter was 2.5 m in air which was much bigger than the micromachined line widths. Therefore it appears that only the central part of the laser focal area had sufficient intensity to modify the refractive index of corneal tissue.

Likewise exposure of lightly fixed cat lens cortex to 0.5 nJ femtosecond laser pulses 45 mW average laser power resulted in the reliable creation of grating patterns about 100 m below the lenticular surface in all test samples even when they were obtained from different cats. When imaged immediately after micromachining individual grating lines could be clearly observed and distinguished with DIC microscopy but they were practically invisible when viewed under bright field transmission microscopy . Again this is interpreted as the grating lines having very low scattering properties which is in great contrast to the destructive tissue changes observed when laser energy was increased above the optical breakdown threshold levels spots in . Also it appears that only the central part of the laser focal area had sufficient intensity to modify the refractive index of lens cortex.

In order to further assess the optical consequences of low pulse energy femtosecond laser micromachining on corneal stromal layer and lens cortex we immediately irradiated the micromachined gratings with low power 632.8 nm He Ne laser light. Because displacement of the stromal collagen lamellae as a result of post mortem corneal swelling could not be completely avoided scattering effect from the 0th order diffraction light was very strong obscuring the 1st order diffraction light. Thus only the 2nd and 3rd order diffraction efficiencies of each grating could be measured and used to calculate an approximate refractive index change within the femtosecond laser micromachined regions . In contrast tissue swelling and opacification were minimal in slices of lens cortex the 0th through 3rd order diffraction light could be measured clearly and 1st and 2nd order diffraction efficiencies were used to calculate the induced change in refractive index .

Although a single diffraction efficiency is usually sufficient to calculate refractive index we measured 1st 2nd or 2nd 3rd combinations to confirm that the refractive indices calculated were consistent through different diffraction orders. For these calculations the average refractive indices of cat corneal stroma and lens were assumed to be 1.376 and 1.400 respectively. For corneal stroma the calculated range of refractive index changes induced by the laser micromachining was from 0.005 0.001 to 0.01 0.001. For lens cortex the calculated range of refractive index changes induced by the laser micromachining was from 0.005 0.001 to 0.03 0.001.

After undergoing low pulse energy femtosecond laser micromachining each cornea piece was returned to the storage solution in a 20 C. freezer for one month in order to determine if the micromachined structures could be maintained over such a period of time. After one month the cornea pieces were removed from storage and re examined. The storage solution significantly slowed corneal swelling and opacification relative to conventional storage in 0.1M PBS for example but was not able to completely prevent these events. In spite of a moderate loss of corneal transparency DIC microscopy did reveal that the grating structures initially micromachined into the corneal stroma were still present one month after they were originally created as demonstrated by the diffraction pattern observed in . The edges of the lens slices became opaque following one month storage but the centers remained largely transparent and the micromachined gratings were still clearly visible in a DIC image .

The diffraction light distribution of one month old gratings in corneal stromal layer was again measured and found to be no different than that obtained right after the gratings creation . Also the diffraction light distribution of one month old gratings in lens cortex was again measured and found to be no different than that obtained right after the gratings creation . In the corneal pieces the scattering light from the 0th order diffraction still obscured the 1st order diffraction. However the 2nd 3rd and even 4th order diffractions were still visible and easy to measure. The measured refractive index change after one month of storage remained from 0.005 0.001 to 0.01 0.001 for the corneal pieces and from 0.005 0.001 to 0.03 0.001 for the lens pieces.

Applications in ophthalmic surgery will now be described. As shown in it is possible to write micron scale features into the stromal layer with minimal scattering loss by carefully controlling the laser and scan parameters such as pulse width average power repetition rate scan rate and focusing conditions. This result which is significantly different than the results in corneal surgery that have been previously reported using femtosecond focused pulses suggests to us certain applications.

One such application is in writing fiducial marks in the corneal stroma. More particularly in one application involving excimer laser ablation of the cornea for vision correction laser in situ keratomileusis or LASIK it is first necessary to cut across the cornea with a flap cutting device. Typically a rapidly vibrating razor blade or microkeratome is used for this purpose. This method generally produces acceptable results however the depth of the final cut is not precise and sometimes the degree of accommodation that can be achieved with excimer laser ablation is compromised. A competing form of corneal flap cutting involves the use of a high power femtosecond laser. Femtosecond flap cutting has not been widely adopted yet in clinical refractive surgery practices in part because of uncertainty about the long term photochemical mechanical and biological effects of this technique Stonecipher et al. 2006 Wilson et al. 2007 . Recently there have been reports about negative effects of this technique particularly in terms of tissue destruction which appears significantly stronger than that obtained following microkeratome cutting Stonecipher et al. 2006 Wilson et al. 2007 .

The micromachining process described provides a possible solution to the problem of being able to make a precise cut in the corneal stroma without additional tissue destruction. shows a situation in which fiducial marks has been machined into the stromal layer of the cornea for example at a specific location and depth. Low energy femtosecond laser pulses can be used to write fiducial marks in the stromal layer of the cornea at a specific depth and location. The fiducial mark would not be visible to a human as indicated by and D however it is detectable by specialized optical techniques such as Optical Coherence Tomography OCT or Differential Interference Contrast DIC microscopy .

The fiducial marks could be used to lock the depth of the cutting blade by using an imaging technique such as Optical Coherence Tomography OCT . OCT has been well developed for both retinal and corneal imaging. This would ensure that the resulting depth of the blade cut would be significantly better regulated than is currently possible even if a femtosecond laser is used to cut the corneal flap. The location and depth of a fiducial mark is obtained using optical coherence tomography OCT interfaced with blade control and the depth of the blade is locked to this depth and guided along a specified cutting path which can ensure accurate flap cutting.

Another application is in altering the optical power of the cornea. Currently laser refractive surgery achieves changes in the optical power of the cornea by destroying removing corneal tissue. Tissue destruction causes 1 a change in the surface profile and curvature of the cornea 2 a change in corneal biomechanical properties usually a flattening of the corneal surface and 3 a wound healing response. A change in surface shape of the cornea as a result of points 1 and 2 is sufficient to correct large optical aberrations such as defocus and astigmatism. However as mentioned earlier the wound healing response that results from corneal tissue destruction limits current laser refractive procedures by decreasing their ultimate optical benefit. Exemplary femtosecond micromachining patterns that could be written into the corneal stroma include a continuous circular area an annulus pattern or a segmented annulus pattern.

The use of femtosecond laser pulses as described to modify the optical power of the cornea can be accomplished as follows 1 by changing the refractive index of the corneal stroma and 2 by altering corneal biomechanics without inducing a significant corneal wound healing response. Because of the femtosecond laser s ability to be focused non invasively in a non contact manner to effect at any chosen depth within the corneal stroma this procedure would not require removal of the corneal epithelium or creation of a corneal flap. Epithelial manipulations are one of the major stimuli causing the wound healing response since such manipulations destroy the normally close interaction both physically and biologically of the corneal epithelium with its underlying stroma. The femtosecond micromachining i.e. use of low energy femtosecond pulses to alter tissue properties non destructively could be applied over a continuous area 6 8 mm in diameter in the center of the cornea or at particular locations in the corneal periphery as mentioned above depending on the optical or biomechanical changes desired.

Yet another application is in altering the optical power of the intraocular lens of the eye. Presbyopia or the loss of accommodation ability as a function of age is currently of epidemic proportions in the developed world. The most common treatment approaches for this condition include reading glasses bifocal glasses contact lenses including bifocals multifocal laser refractive treatments monovision laser refractive treatments and the use of accommodative intraocular lens implants into the eye. Other approaches involve the use of surgical or destructive laser treatments to punch holes in the patient s intraocular lens thus decreasing its rigidity and restoring some limited accommodative power. However any invasive or destructive procedures induce a wound healing response in the lens with increased risk of opacification or cataract formation.

The micromachining process described also provides an opportunity for an ocular surgeon to modify the refractive index of the corneal stromal layer of a patient having gone cataract surgery. The method allows the ocular surgeon to correct any aberrations as a result of the surgery. For example starting from a lens of selected power the power of which will vary according to the ocular requirements of the patient the surgeon can subsequently adjust the refractive properties of the corneal stromal layer to correct a patients vision based upon the individual needs of the patient. In essence an intraocular lens would essentially function as a fixed power lens to correct for the refractive error of a patient s eye. The patient s vision can then be further adjusted post implantation by modifying the refractive index of select regions of the patient s corneal stromal layer. As a result post operative refractive errors resulting from pre operative measurement errors variable lens positioning during implantation and wound healing aberrations can be corrected.

For instance cataract surgery typically requires that the natural lens of each eye be replaced with an intraocular lens IOL . Following insertion of the IOL the surgeon or eye specialist can correct for aberrations resulting from the surgery or correct for slight misplacement of the IOL. Following surgery and after allowing time for the wound to heal the patient would return to the surgeon to have select regions of his or her corneal stromal layer irradiated. These irradiated regions would experience a change in refractive index which would correct for the aberrations as well as the patients needs for vision correction.

Accordingly the invention is directed to a method comprising identifying and measuring the aberrations resulting from the surgical procedure. Once the aberrations are identified and quantified using methods well known in the art of ophthalmology this information is processed by a computer. Of course information related to the requisite vision correction for each patient can also be identified and determined and this information can also be processed by a computer. There are a number of commercially available diagnostic systems that are used to measure the aberrations. For example common wavefront sensors used today are based on the Schemer disk the Shack Hartmann wavefront sensor the Hartmann screen and the Fizeau and Twymann Green interferometers. The Shack Hartmann wavefront measurement system is known in the art and is described in part by U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 849 006 6 261 220 6 271 914 and 6 270 221. Such systems operate by illuminating a retina of the eye and measuring the reflected wavefront.

Once the aberrations are identified and quantified the computer programs determine the position and shape of the optical structures to be written into the corneal stromal layer to correct for those aberrations. These computer programs are well known to those of ordinary skill in the art. The computer than communicates with the laser optical system and select regions of corneal stromal layer are irradiated with a focused visible or near IR laser having a pulse energy from 0.01 nJ to 1.0 nJ.

The described micromachining process can also be used for custom vision correction of higher order wavefront aberration in the optical path of the eye. The basic technology for detecting and correcting aberrations of at least third fifth and tenth orders is taught in U.S. Pat. No. 5 777 719 whose disclosure is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety into the present disclosure. Given that the region of refractive index change generated by femtosecond laser micromachining can be as small as 1 m in diameter this will make it possible to correct small localized optical wavefront aberrations higher order aberrations in the optical path of the eye. Such aberrations exist both naturally or can be induced by ocular surgeries such as laser refractive surgery corneal transplantation and wound healing following trauma to the eye.

As illustrated in the process we propose would include the following steps 1 using a wavefront sensor to detect and measure the lower and higher order aberrations along the optical path of a given eye 2 calculating the topography and magnitude of refractive index changes required to achieve the necessary aberration correction 3 focusing the femtosecond laser pulses either into the cornea or intraocular lens in order to carry out the micromachining necessary to induce the required refractive index change. Once the micromachining is complete the wavefront sensor would be used once again to check the correction of the ocular wavefront. Since the resolution of the femtosecond laser micromachining is about 1 m this noninvasive method could be used as a complement or an alternative method for current customized wavefront correction methods.

In the shutter is closed for detection of wavefront aberration from the optical path through the wavefront sensor using aberrated light reflected from the retina of the eye. In the shutter is open and light pulses from the femtosecond laser are used to correct the aberration by locally changing the index in the cornea or the lens of the eye. In after femtosecond laser micromachining the wavefront correction is verified once again using the wavefront sensor .

As mentioned. these gratings were investigated by focusing an unpolarized He Ne laser beam with a wavelength of 632.8 nm on these gratings and monitoring the diffraction pattern. The diffraction angles showed good agreement with the diffraction equation sin 1 

where m is the diffraction order is the wavelength of the incident laser beam which here is 632.8 nm and d is the grating period.

The diffraction efficiency of the grating can be measured and since the efficiency is a function of the refractive index change it may be used to calculate the refractive index change in the laser irradiation region. Consider the grating as a phase grating its transmittance function could be written as

where a is the grating line width d is the groove spacing and are the phase delays through the lines and ambient region respectively 

By comparing the light intensities of 1 2and 0diffraction orders the refractive index change within the grating lines can be determined.

While specific embodiments of the present invention have been described in the foregoing it will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that many equivalents modifications substitutions and variations may be made thereto without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims.

Eight corneas and eight lenses were extracted under surgical anesthesia from five normal adult domestic short hair cats . All animal procedures were conducted in accordance with the guidelines of the University of Rochester Committee on Animal Research the ARVO Statement for the Use of Animals in Ophthalmic and Vision Research and the NIH Guide for the Care and Use of Laboratory Animals. Feline corneas and lenses were chosen because of their similarity to human corneas and lenses in terms of histological structure molecular composition and optical properties. See Hughes A. The topography of vision in mammals of contrasting life style comparative optics and retinal organization. Handbook of Sensory Physiology VII 5. Berlin Springer Verlag 1977. Also in contrast with the problems associated with obtaining post mortem human eyes using cat corneas and lenses allowed us to precisely control post mortem extraction time and tissue processing parameters. This was important to avoid degradation and opacification of the corneas and lenses prior to femtosecond laser micromachining. Extracted feline tissues were immediately drop fixed for 10 minutes corneas in a solution consisting of 1 paraformaldehyde in 0.1M phosphate buffered saline PBS pH 7.4. Lenses were cut into 500 m thick slices using a vibratome. The lens slices and whole corneas 500 m thick were immersed in a mixture of 30 ethylene glycol 30 sucrose in 0.1M PBS pH 7.4 at 4 C. The ocular tissues were stored in this solution at all times in order to minimize tissue swelling and loss of transparency.

For laser micromachining the corneas were trimmed to generate small flat pieces of tissue averaging 1 cm. Each piece of cornea was then flattened onto a clear glass slide 1 3 inches 1 mm thick Surgipath Medical Industries Inc. IL with the epithelium facing up and the endothelium facing down. A glass coverslip Corning No. 0211 Zinc Titania glass was placed on the top of each piece of cornea or lens stabilizing it for the duration of the experiment. The ethylene glycol sucrose storage solution was used as mounting medium to prevent or at least minimize dehydration of the cornea and lens since these effects are known to alter the refractive index and transparency of both these tissues.

Femtosecond laser micro machining was conducted as previously described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 745 746 filed May 8 2007 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 948 298 filed Nov. 30 2007. The laser source was a Kerr lens mode locked Ti Sapphire laser K M Labs . This laser oscillator generates pulses averaging 300 mW pulse duration of 27 fs and a 93 MHz repetition rate at 800 nm wavelength. A continuously variable metallic neutral density filter was inserted into the optical path and used to adjust the incident laser power onto each cat cornea piece. The femtosecond laser pulses were focused 100 m below the tissue surface using a 60 0.70 NA Olympus LUCPlanFLN long working distance microscope objective. Because the large amount of glass within the microscope objective induces significant chromatic dispersion into the femtosecond laser pulses greatly broadening the femtosecond pulse durations we used a standard extra cavity prism double pass configuration to compensate for the dispersion and maintain the ultrashort pulse duration. By carefully adjusting this dispersion compensator we obtained nearly transform limited 27 fs duration pulses at the focal point of the focusing objective which were measured by a collinear autocorrelator using 3rd order surface harmonic generation THG . During femtosecond laser micromachining the slide containing the biological tissue samples was mounted on a 3D scanning platform consisting of a Physik Instrumente PI P 622.2CD XY scanning stage with 250 m travel range and 0.7 nm close loop resolution and a Newport VP 25XA linear servo Z axis scanning stage with 25 mm travel range and 100 nm resolution. An infrared CCD camera was used to monitor the micromachining process and the generation of visible plasma luminescence in real time.

Our experiments were conducted at room temperature 25 C. . It took about 40 minutes to create a 100 m 50 m grating and conduct the immediate post micromachining measurements. Corneal trimming and mounting did not exceed 10 minutes in duration and the corneal tissue was exposed to ambient air during the trimming process for at most 2 minutes. Application of the Ti Sapphire femtosecond as described resulted in the formation of micromachined gratings having 20 to 40 lines into the stromal layer of the corneas each line approximately 1 m wide 100 m long and 5 m apart. Refractive index changes in the micromachined regions were calculated immediately and after one month of further storage by measuring the intensity distribution of diffracted light when the gratings were irradiated by 632.8 nm wavelength He Ne laser light. Because we observed no significant changes in cornea and lens transparency or thickness at the end of our micromachining experiments we conclude that the described micromachining process did not cause significant corneal or lenticular dehydration or swelling.

