---

title: Techniques for exchanging contact information and establishing a connection via a social networking service
abstract: A method of making it easier for users to interact with each other via a social networking system is disclosed. It is detected that a first user of a social networking system performed an action with respect to a second user of the social networking system. It is interpreted that the action of the first user corresponds to a command that the first user intends to issue to a social networking system, the command pertaining to the second user. The command is processed by the social networking system on behalf of the first user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09503413&OS=09503413&RS=09503413
owner: LinkedIn Corporation
number: 09503413
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131231
---
This application relates generally to the technical field of social networking and in one specific example to making it easier for business people to establish connections to one another with respect to a social networking system.

A social networking system e.g. Facebook or LinkedIn may enable users to declare their relationships with each other e.g. as colleagues acquaintances friends fans followers etc. . For example a first person may declare himself to be a friend of a second person. The second person may then confirm the declaration of friendship of the first person. Similarly the first person and the second person may acknowledge having a professional relationship with one another e.g. as having worked together as colleagues for a current or past employer .

In some circumstances it may be difficult or cumbersome for a user to establish a relationship with another user via the social networking system. For example a first user may personally know or be acquainted with a second user but the first user may be unable to locate an online profile of the second user with respect to the social networking system. Or the first user may be unwilling or unable to complete the steps e.g. declaration and acknowledgement steps required to establish the relationship with second user e.g. because of time constraints . Because an entity associated with the social networking system e.g. an owner may benefit from establishment of such relationships between users of the social networking system e.g. from advertising subscription or other revenue the entity may wish to simplify procedures for establishing such relationships.

In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide an understanding of various embodiments of the inventive subject matter. It will be evident however to those skilled in the art that embodiments may be practiced without these specific details. Further to avoid obscuring the inventive concepts in unnecessary detail well known instruction instances protocols structures and techniques have not been shown in detail. As used herein the term or may be construed in an inclusive or exclusive sense the term user may be construed to include a person or a machine and the term interface may be construed to include an application program interface API or a user interface.

In various embodiments a method of making it easier for users to interact with each other via a social networking system is disclosed. It is detected that a first user of a social networking system performed an action with respect to a second user of the social networking system. It is interpreted that the action of the first user corresponds to a command that the first user intends to issue to a social networking system the command pertaining to the second user. The command is processed by the social networking system on behalf of the first user.

This method and other methods or embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented as a computer system having one or more modules e.g. hardware modules or software modules . Such modules may be executed by one or more processors of the computer system. This method and other methods or embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied as instructions stored on a machine readable medium that when executed by one or more processors cause the one or more processors to perform the instructions.

As shown in the social networking system is generally based on a three tiered architecture consisting of a front end layer application logic layer and data layer. As is understood by skilled artisans in the relevant computer and Internet related arts each module or engine shown in represents a set of executable software instructions and the corresponding hardware e.g. memory and processor for executing the instructions. To avoid obscuring the inventive subject matter with unnecessary detail various functional modules and engines that are not germane to conveying an understanding of the inventive subject matter have been omitted from . However a skilled artisan will readily recognize that various additional functional modules and engines may be used with a social networking system such as that illustrated in to facilitate additional functionality that is not specifically described herein. Furthermore the various functional modules and engines depicted in may reside on a single server computer or may be distributed across several server computers in various arrangements. Moreover although depicted in as a three tiered architecture the inventive subject matter is by no means limited to such an architecture.

As shown in the front end layer consists of a user interface module e.g. a web server which receives requests from various client computing devices including one or more mobile computing devices and communicates appropriate responses to the requesting client computing devices. For example the user interface module s may receive requests in the form of Hypertext Transport Protocol HTTP requests or other web based application programming interface API requests. The client devices may be executing conventional web browser applications or applications that have been developed for a specific platform to include any of a wide variety of mobile computing devices and mobile specific operating systems.

As shown in the data layer includes several databases including a database for storing data for various entities of the social graph including member profiles company profiles educational institution profiles as well as information concerning various online or offline groups. Of course with various alternative embodiments any number of other entities might be included in the social graph and as such various other databases may be used to store data corresponding with other entities.

Consistent with some embodiments when a person initially registers to become a member of the social networking service the person will be prompted to provide some personal information such as his or her name age e.g. birth date gender interests contact information home town address the names of the member s spouse and or family members educational background e.g. schools majors etc. current job title job description industry employment history skills professional organizations interests and so on. This information is stored for example as profile data in the database with reference number .

Once registered a member may invite other members or be invited by other members to connect via the social networking service. A connection may require a bi lateral agreement by the members such that both members acknowledge the establishment of the connection. Similarly with some embodiments a member may elect to follow another member. In contrast to establishing a connection the concept of following another member typically is a unilateral operation and at least with some embodiments does not require acknowledgement or approval by the member that is being followed. When one member connects with or follows another member the member who is connected to or following the other member may receive messages or updates e.g. content items in his or her personalized content stream about various activities undertaken by the other member. More specifically the messages or updates presented in the content stream may be authored and or published or shared by the other member or may be automatically generated based on some activity or event involving the other member. In addition to following another member a member may elect to follow a company a topic a conversation a web page or some other entity or object which may or may not be included in the social graph maintained by the social networking system. With some embodiments because the content selection algorithm selects content relating to or associated with the particular entities that a member is connected with or is following as a member connects with and or follows other entities the universe of available content items for presentation to the member in his or her content stream increases.

As members interact with various applications content and user interfaces of the social networking system information relating to the member s activity and behavior may be stored in a database such as the database with reference number .

The social networking system may provide a broad range of other applications and services that allow members the opportunity to share and receive information often customized to the interests of the member. For example with some embodiments the social networking system may include a photo sharing application that allows members to upload and share photos with other members. With some embodiments members of a social networking system may be able to self organize into groups or interest groups organized around a subject matter or topic of interest. With some embodiments members may subscribe to or join groups affiliated with one or more companies. For instance with some embodiments members of the social networking service may indicate an affiliation with a company at which they are employed such that news and events pertaining to the company are automatically communicated to the members in their personalized activity or content streams. With some embodiments members may be allowed to subscribe to receive information concerning companies other than the company with which they are employed. Membership in a group a subscription or following relationship with a company or group as well as an employment relationship with a company are all examples of different types of relationships that may exist between different entities as defined by the social graph and modeled with the social graph data of the database with reference number .

The application logic layer includes various application server modules which in conjunction with the user interface module s generates various user interfaces with data retrieved from various data sources or data services in the data layer. With some embodiments individual application server modules are used to implement the functionality associated with various applications services and features of the social networking system. For instance a messaging application such as an email application an instant messaging application or some hybrid or variation of the two may be implemented with one or more application server modules . A photo sharing application may be implemented with one or more application server modules . Similarly a search engine enabling users to search for and browse member profiles may be implemented with one or more application server modules . Of course other applications and services may be separately embodied in their own application server modules .

As illustrated in one application server module is a command facilitation module . Accordingly the command facilitation module may facilitate the issuing of commands by the user as will be described in more detail below.

As illustrated in the mobile computing device includes a mobile operating system which has both a location information service or module and an activity recognition service or module . With some embodiments one of these two services may be a sub component of the other or may be combined as a single service or module. In any case the services and provide an application programming interface API that allows the mobile application to invoke various functions or access certain data that are provided and or derived by the respective services. For example the location information service may operate with one or more location sensing components or devices e.g. a GPS component WiFi triangulation iBeacons or other indoor positioning systems and so forth to derive location information representing the current location of the mobile computing device as well as the current speed and direction of travel. The mobile application by making an API request to the location information service can obtain this location information e.g. current location direction and speed of travel etc. of the mobile computing device. Accordingly with some embodiments the location information can be included with a content request communicated to a content server thereby allowing the content server to select content items based at least in part on the current location of the user or the current location and direction and speed of travel.

With some embodiments the activity recognition service may be configured to receive information or data signals from one or more motion sensing components or devices such as an accelerometer compass and or gyroscope. In addition the activity recognition service may receive location information from a location sensing component or device such as a GPS component indoor positioning system or other location sensing component and or a wireless network interface. By analyzing the information or data signals generated by these various sensing components the activity recognition service can generate information representing the inferred physical activity state of the member of the social networking service. For example the various sensing components may generate a combination of signals from which the activity recognition service can infer a particular activity state of the member to include but certainly not to be limited to walking running sitting standing driving in a vehicle and riding in a vehicle.

With some embodiments the inferred physical activity state of the member may be represented by a single activity status identifier that is assigned a particular value to represent the most likely current physical activity state of the member e.g. walking 1 running 2 sitting still 3 standing 4 etc. . In other embodiments each of several activity status identifiers may be assigned a value or score representing a measure of the likelihood that a member is in a certain physical activity state e.g. walking 0.90 running 0.45 sitting still 0.03 standing 0.11 etc. . In yet other embodiments the inferred physical activity state of the member may be represented by a single activity status identifier that is assigned a particular value to represent the most likely current physical activity state of the member in combination with another value that represents the likelihood or probability that the member is in the inferred physical activity state e.g. activity state identifier 1 confidence level 0.90 . Of course an activity status identifier may be encoded in any of a number of other ways as well.

Accordingly when a user of the mobile computing device is walking an accelerometer gyroscope and compass will generally detect motion and direction consistent with such activity. An activity status identifier may be assigned a particular value e.g. a number that identifies the member s current physical activity state for example walking or running. Alternatively a specific activity status identifier for walking may be assigned a value or score representing the probability or likelihood that the member is at that moment engaged in the particular physical activity that is for example walking. Similarly when a user places his or her mobile computing device flat on a desk or table top the sensing components will generally detect motion or lack thereof that is consistent with such activity.

In some instances in addition to signals generated by an accelerometer gyroscope and or compass the activity recognition service may also analyze information received from other data sources to include information from one or more location sensing components e.g. GPS iBeacon etc. . By analyzing location information including the current location e.g. latitude and longitude coordinates as well as the direction and speed of travel the activity recognition service can make meaningful inferences about the member s current activity state. For example an accelerometer and gyroscope of a mobile computing device may detect motion consistent with a member that may be running while the member s current location speed and direction of travel as evidenced by information received via a GPS component may indicate that the member is currently on a well known trail or path and moving in a direction and speed consistent with the member running on the trail or path. Accordingly the more information from which the activity status identifier is inferred the higher the confidence level may be for the particular inferred activity status identified.

With some embodiments the activity recognition service may use a mobile computing device s network activity status to determine the member s current physical activity state. For example if a mobile computing device is currently paired and actively communicating with another Bluetooth device known to be in an automobile or vehicle of the member and the other sensors are detecting signals consistent with the mobile computing device being within a moving automobile or vehicle the activity recognition service may indicate a high probability that the member is currently driving. Similarly if the sensors are detecting signals consistent with the mobile computing device being within a moving automobile or vehicle but the mobile computing device is not currently paired or connected with a known data network Bluetooth personal area network controller area network etc. the activity recognition service may indicate a high probability that the member is currently riding but not driving in a vehicle.

With some embodiments a mobile application may register a request with the activity recognition service to receive periodic updates regarding the inferred activity state of the user of the mobile computing device who is a member of the social networking service. Accordingly after receiving the request the activity recognition service may periodically communicate information to the mobile application about the user s inferred activity state. With some embodiments the activity recognition service may only provide the mobile application with information concerning the current inferred activity status when there is a change from one status to another or when the confidence level for a particular activity status exceeds some predefined threshold. In other embodiments the mobile application may periodically poll the activity recognition service for the current inferred activity state.

Referring again to the mobile application includes various modules . A detection module may be configured to detect actions of a user e.g. movements gestures voice commands and so on . An interpretation module may be configured to interpret actions of users as corresponding to intentions of the user e.g. to connect to another user via a social networking system to exchange a business card with another user and so on . A notification module may be configured to generate notifications such as notifications including information pertaining to actions of users with respect to the social networking system. A communication module may be configured to transmit information such as generated notifications to devices of users of a social networking system or receive information transmitted from devices of the users. A location module may be configured to determine locations of users of a social networking system e.g. based on communications with applications of a location based services system . A relationship module may be configured to manage relationships of users with respect to a social networking system. A matching module may be configured to match received information e.g. voice recordings to profiles of users of a social networking system. A processing module may be configured to process a request e.g. a request by a first user to exchange business cards with a second user or a request by a first user to declare or acknowledge a relationship to a second user with respect to the social networking system .

Although the functionality corresponding to modules is depicted and described as being implemented on the client side e.g. by the mobile application in various embodiments some or all of the functionality corresponding to modules may be implemented on the server side e.g. by the command facilitation module . Thus in various embodiments one or more algorithms implemented on the client side or server side may utilize information collected about the user such as the member s current activity current location current gesture past activity and behavior social graph data profile data and so on to facilitate the issuing of a command by the user with respect to the social networking system such as declaring or acknowledging a relationship with the user of the additional mobile device.

At operation the interpretation module may interpret the gesture as corresponding to a request by the user of the first device to exchange an electronic business card of the user of the first device with an electronic business card of the user of the second device. For example the interpretation module may identify that the particular type of the gesture made by the user e.g. a pointing by the user means that the user wishes to exchange business cards. Furthermore the interpretation module determine that an additional user having a location in the direction of the user s gesture e.g. an additional user present in the direction of the pointing of the user is the target user with whom the user wishes to exchange business cards. The interpretation module may determine whether that a particular type of gesture corresponds to a request by the user to exchange business cards based on for example on a matching of the gesture to a predetermined set of gestures corresponding to the request. The predetermined set of gestures may have been previously established e.g. by the user or an administrator of the social networking system .

At operation the notification module may generate a notification that includes information pertaining to the request by the first user to exchange business cards with the second user. For example the notification may specify an identity of the first user e.g. a name of the first user a user ID of the first user information from a profile of the first user such as a title of the first user and employer of the first user and so on a location of the first user with respect to the second user and so on. For example assume that Joe Beans and Fred Jones are present in a same conference room at a convention. Further assume that the interpretation module has determined that a gesture by Joe Beans in the direction of Fred Jones means that Joe Beans wishes to exchange business with Fred Jones. Based on these determinations the notification module may generate a notification that is to be communicated to Fred Jones. The notification may specify that Joe Beans is a Program Manager at XYZ corporation who is approximately 10 feet away in the NW direction from Joe Beans and that Jose Beans has indicated that he wishes to exchange business cards with Fred Jones.

The notification module may include any information known about the users in the notifications that may be relevant to the request to exchange business cards. For example the notification module may identify commonalities between the users e.g. common interests associations affiliations and so on between the users based on information contained in the data such as the profiles of the users of the social networking system. The notification module may then include information about such commonalities in the notification. The information maintained about the users with respect to the social networking system may include names usernames titles industries of employment home or work geographical locations current employers past employers referrals interests background specialties projects education e.g. degrees earned schools attended dates of graduation activities and societies participated in and so on connections groups followers people following and so on. Information known about the users may also include information that the social networking system gathers based on monitoring of the behavior of the users with respect to the social networking system. For example the information may include information pertaining to articles that the users have browsed groups that the users have participated in e.g. information about postings the users have made on a group home page postings that the users have made on their walls e.g. information about status of users that the users have posted or information about content items that the users have shared and so on.

At operation the communication module may transmit the generated notification to the second user as part of a request by the first user to exchange business cards with the second user. In various embodiments based on a receipt of an acceptance of the request by the second user the processing module may process the request. The processing of the request may include generating a business card based on profile information of the first user and the second user maintained with respect to the social networking system. For example the processing module may generate a first virtual business card that includes a subset of information known about the first user and a second virtual business card that includes a subset of information known about the second user. In various embodiments the processing module may select the subset of the information based on commonalities between the first user and the second user. Or the processing module may select the subset of information based on a template of a business card. In various embodiments a template may be specified by the first user such that the subset of information known about the second user is selected according to information that the first user wishes to have on hand about the second user. Additionally the template may be specified by the first user may be different than a template specified by the second user. Thus the business card generated by the processing module for the first user may be different than the business card generated by the processing module for the second user.

At operation the location module may determine that additional users of the social networking system are present at the same location.

At operation the relationship module may identify that the user has potential declared or confirmed relationships with a set of the additional users. For example the relationship module may identify that the set of the additional users are confirmed connections or friends of the user with respect to the social networking system. Or the relationship module may identify that the set of additional users are followers of the user. Or the relationship module may identify that the set of additional users are followed by the user. Or the relationship module may identify that the user may know the set of additional users or have an interest in the set of additional users e.g. based on commonalities between the user and the set of additional users .

At operation the notification module may generate a notification that includes information pertaining to the relative positions of each of the set of additional users at the location. For example the notification module may generate a notification that includes a specification of at least approximate distances and directions of each of the set of users in comparison to the geographical location of the user. Or the notification module may generate a notification that includes a specification of the sub locations of each of the set of additional users at the location e.g. a specific conference room bathroom or other sub location of the location . In various embodiments the communication module may send the generated notification to the user.

In various embodiments the location module may be based on the establishment of geo fences around the location sub locations and users of the social networking system. As defined herein a geo fence is a virtual perimeter for a real world geographic area. For example a device of a user may be configured e.g. via an application installed on the device to send a communication to the social networking system when a user enters or exits a geo fence. The geo fences may be maintained by an administrator of the social networking system or by the users of the social networking system.

Thus based on the notification a user who is present at a location may be able to more easily find additional users of the social networking system who are present at the location and have a particular relationship with the user.

At operation the communication module may receive a second recording of the name of the first user. For example the communication module may receive the second recording of the name of the user from a device of a second user into which the first user speaks his name to be recorded.

At operation based on a matching of the first recording of the name of the first user to the second recording of the name of the first user e.g. based on the matching module applying a voice recognition function the processing module may send a request on behalf of the second user to the first user the request requesting that the second user acknowledge a relationship between the first user and the second user with respect to the social networking system.

As an example consider that the first person has a name that is difficult for the second person to understand or pronounce such as a name that is native to a language that is foreign to the second person. In this case the second person may have difficulty determining the spelling of the name of the second person such that the second person could easily search for the first person on the social networking system. Or assume that the first person has a name that is very common. In this case the second person could have difficulty identifying which of the users having the same or similar names is the user he wishes to find on the social networking system.

In such cases the second user may establish the first user as the particular user of the social networking system to which the second user wishes to connect by simply asking the first user to speak his name into an application executing on a mobile device e.g. a smart phone carried by the second user or vice versa . The application may then communicate the recording of the spoken name of the first user along with an appropriate command to which the recording corresponds such as a command to declare or acknowledge a relationship between the first person and the second person. In various embodiments the particular command with which the recording is associated may be specified by the second user e.g. by entering a command within the application . Upon receiving the communication containing the recording and the command the processing module may send a request to the first user or the second user to declare or acknowledge the relationship with the individual specifically identified by the recording. In this way users who are present at the same location but who may otherwise have difficulty declaring or acknowledging relationships between themselves with respect to the social networking system may easily declare or acknowledge the relationship.

At operation the location module may determine a location of the second user of the social networking system.

At operation the interpretation module may interpret the gesture of the first user as corresponding to a request of the first user with respect to the second user. For example based on the first user pointing to the second user the interpretation module may determine that the first user wishes to determine an identity of the user with respect to the social networking system. Or based on the first user giving a thumbs up sign in the direction of the second user the interpretation module may determine that the first user wishes to declare a relationship between the first user and the second user with respect to the social networking system. In various embodiments the user or an administrator may map particular gestures with particular commands that the first user may issue to the social networking system that pertain to the second user.

At operation the processing module processes the request. For example the processing module sends a request on behalf of the first user to the second user the request asking the second user to confirm a relationship declared by the first user with respect to the second user. Or the processing module on behalf of the first user declares a relationship of the first user with respect to the second user such as a connection or follower relationship.

The example computer system includes a processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via a bus . The computer system may further include a video display unit e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD or a cathode ray tube CRT . The computer system also includes an alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard a user interface UI navigation or cursor control device e.g. a mouse a storage unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker and a network interface device .

The disk drive unit includes a machine readable medium on which is stored one or more sets of data structures and instructions e.g. software embodying or utilized by any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The instructions may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory and or within the processor during execution thereof by the computer system the main memory and the processor also constituting machine readable media. The instructions may also reside completely or at least partially within the static memory .

While the machine readable medium is shown in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable medium may include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more instructions or data structures. The term machine readable medium shall also be taken to include any tangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present embodiments or that is capable of storing encoding or carrying data structures utilized by or associated with such instructions. The term machine readable medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories and optical and magnetic media. Specific examples of machine readable media include non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EPROM Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and compact disc read only memory CD ROM and digital versatile disc or digital video disc read only memory DVD ROM disks.

The instructions may further be transmitted or received over a communications network using a transmission medium. The network may be one of the networks . The instructions may be transmitted using the network interface device and any one of a number of well known transfer protocols e.g. Hyper Text Transfer Protocol HTTP . Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN the Internet mobile telephone networks Plain Old Telephone POTS networks and wireless data networks e.g. WiFi and WiMax networks . The term transmission medium shall be taken to include any intangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and includes digital or analog communications signals or other intangible media to facilitate communication of such software.

Although an embodiment has been described with reference to specific example embodiments it will be evident that various modifications and changes may be made to these embodiments without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense. The accompanying drawings that form a part hereof show by way of illustration and not of limitation specific embodiments in which the subject matter may be practiced. The embodiments illustrated are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the teachings disclosed herein. Other embodiments may be utilized and derived therefrom such that structural and logical substitutions and changes may be made without departing from the scope of this disclosure. This Detailed Description therefore is not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of various embodiments is defined only by the appended claims along with the full range of equivalents to which such claims are entitled.

Such embodiments of the inventive subject matter may be referred to herein individually and or collectively by the term invention merely for convenience and without intending to voluntarily limit the scope of this application to any single invention or inventive concept if more than one is in fact disclosed. Thus although specific embodiments have been illustrated and described herein it should be appreciated that any arrangement calculated to achieve the same purpose may be substituted for the specific embodiments shown. This disclosure is intended to cover any and all adaptations or variations of various embodiments. Combinations of the above embodiments and other embodiments not specifically described herein will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reviewing the above description.

