---

title: Form aggregation based on marks in graphic form fields
abstract: The disclosure includes a system and method for aggregating form data based on marks in graphic form fields. The system includes a controller, a request customization module, a search module and a presentation module. The controller receives data indicating an initiation of a search request from a user, data describing a form selected by the user, data describing a graphic form field specified by the user in the form and data describing a region of interest specified by the user in the graphic form field. The request customization module customizes the search request using the region of interest. The search module performs a form search on a collection of form data using the search request to determine one or more matching forms that each include at least one mark satisfying the region of interest. The presentation module provides the one or more matching forms to the user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09483522&OS=09483522&RS=09483522
owner: Ricoh Company, Ltd.
number: 09483522
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20130307
---
The specification relates to a system and method for aggregating data. In particular the specification relates to a system and method for aggregating form data that describes forms with graphic form fields.

A form that allows a user to fill out information may include one or more text fields and one or more graphic form fields. A user can interact with the form displayed on a client device e.g. a tablet by drawing on a diagram in a graphic form field of the form using a finger or a stylus. These forms are helpful for tracking individual data however applications associated with the forms are limited in the information that they provide.

The disclosure includes a system and method for aggregating form data based on marks in graphic form fields. In one embodiment the system includes a controller configured to receive data indicating an initiation of a search request from a user data describing a form selected by the user data describing a graphic form field specified by the user in the form and data describing a region of interest specified by the user in the graphic form field a request customization module configured to customize the search request using the region of interest in the graphic form field a search module configured to perform a form search on a collection of form data using the search request to determine one or more matching forms that each include at least one mark satisfying the region of interest and a presentation module configured to provide the one or more matching forms to the user.

Other aspects include corresponding methods systems apparatuses and computer program products for these and other innovative aspects.

The system is particularly advantageous in numerous respects. First the system is capable of aggregating form data based on marks drawn on a graphic form field allowing a user to make business decisions using the aggregated form data. Second the system allows a user to configure a search request so that the search request specifies one or more of a region of interest a region of exclusion a regional aggregation parameter and a marking property. The system generates a matching result that includes one or more matching forms satisfying one or more of the region of interest the region of exclusion the regional aggregation parameter and the marking property. Third the system allows a user to organize the matching forms in the matching result according to a marking property e.g. a marking length a marking style a marking contour a marking location and a count of marks etc. . The system may have other numerous advantages.

A system and method for aggregating form data based on marks in graphic form fields are described below. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the invention. It will be apparent however to one skilled in the art that the embodiments can be practiced without these specific details. In other instances structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid obscuring the invention. For example the invention is described in one embodiment below with reference to client devices such as a smart phone and particular software and hardware. However the description applies to any type of computing device that can receive data and commands and any peripheral devices providing services.

Reference in the specification to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

Some portions of the detailed descriptions that follow are presented in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on data bits within a computer memory. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are the means used by those skilled in the data processing arts to most effectively convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. An algorithm is here and generally conceived to be a self consistent sequence of steps leading to a desired result. The steps are those requiring physical manipulations of physical quantities. Usually though not necessarily these quantities take the form of electrical or magnetic signals capable of being stored transferred combined compared and otherwise manipulated. It has proven convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to these signals as bits values elements symbols characters terms numbers or the like.

It should be borne in mind however that all of these and similar terms are to be associated with the appropriate physical quantities and are merely convenient labels applied to these quantities. Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the following discussion it is appreciated that throughout the description discussions utilizing terms such as processing or computing or calculating or determining or displaying or the like refer to the action and processes of a computer system or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and transforms data represented as physical electronic quantities within the computer system s registers and memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the computer system memories or registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices.

The invention also relates to an apparatus for performing the operations herein. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purposes or it may comprise a general purpose computer selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored in the computer. Such a computer program may be stored in a computer readable storage medium such as but is not limited to any type of disk including floppy disks optical disks CD ROMs and magnetic disks read only memories ROMs random access memories RAMs EPROMs EEPROMs magnetic or optical cards flash memories including USB keys with non volatile memory or any type of media suitable for storing electronic instructions each coupled to a computer system bus.

Some embodiments can take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment or an embodiment containing both hardware and software elements. A preferred embodiment is implemented in software which includes but is not limited to firmware resident software microcode etc.

Furthermore some embodiments can take the form of a computer program product accessible from a computer usable or computer readable medium providing program code for use by or in connection with a computer or any instruction execution system. For the purposes of this invention a computer usable or computer readable medium can be any apparatus that can contain store communicate propagate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device.

A data processing system suitable for storing and or executing program code will include at least one processor coupled directly or indirectly to memory elements through a system bus. The memory elements can include local memory employed during actual execution of the program code bulk storage and cache memories which provide temporary storage of at least some program code in order to reduce the number of times code must be retrieved from bulk storage during execution. Input output or I O devices including but not limited to keyboards displays pointing devices etc. can be coupled to the system either directly or through intervening I O controllers.

Network adapters may also be coupled to the system to enable the data processing system to become coupled to other data processing systems or remote printers or storage devices through intervening private or public networks. Modems cable modem and Ethernet cards are just a few of the currently available types of network adapters.

Finally the algorithms and displays presented herein are not inherently related to any particular computer or other apparatus. Various general purpose systems may be used with programs in accordance with the teachings herein or it may prove convenient to construct more specialized apparatus to perform the required method steps. The required structure for a variety of these systems will appear from the description below. In addition the specification is not described with reference to any particular programming language. It will be appreciated that a variety of programming languages may be used to implement the teachings of the various embodiments as described herein.

The network can be a conventional type wired or wireless and may have numerous different configurations including a star configuration token ring configuration or other configurations. Furthermore the network may include a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN e.g. the Internet and or other interconnected data paths across which multiple devices may communicate. In some implementations the network may be a peer to peer network. The network may also be coupled to or includes portions of a telecommunications network for sending data in a variety of different communication protocols. In some implementations the network includes Bluetooth communication networks or a cellular communications network for sending and receiving data including via short messaging service SMS multimedia messaging service MMS hypertext transfer protocol HTTP direct data connection WAP email etc. Although illustrates one network coupled to the client devices and the electronic writer solution server in practice one or more networks can be connected to these entities.

In one embodiment the graphic form application may be operable on the electronic writer solution server which is coupled to the network via signal line . The electronic writer solution server can be a hardware server that includes a processor a memory and network communication capabilities. In some implementations the electronic writer solution server sends and receives data to and from the client devices via the network . While includes one electronic writer solution server the system may include one or more electronic writer solution servers . The electronic writer solution server also includes a storage device which is described below in more detail with reference to .

In another embodiment the graphic form application may be stored on a client device which is connected to the network via signal line . In some implementations the client device may be a computing device that includes a memory and a processor for example a laptop computer a desktop computer a tablet computer a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a mobile email device or other electronic device capable of accessing a network . In the illustrated implementation the user interacts with the client device . The client device is communicatively coupled to the network via signal line . The user interacts with the client device . In some implementations the graphic form application acts as a thin client application that may be stored in part on the client device and in part as components on the electronic writer solution server . For example the electronic writer solution server stores data describing one or more forms with marks noted by users in the storage device . The graphic form application sends instructions to a display device for example using a browser for displaying the one or more forms to the user on the client device . The client devices in are used by way of example. While illustrates two client devices and the disclosure applies to a system architecture having one or more client devices .

The graphic form application is code and routines for aggregating form data that describes one or more forms. In some implementations the graphic form application can be implemented using hardware including a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific integrated circuit ASIC . In some other implementations the graphic form application can be implemented using a combination of hardware and software. In some implementations the graphic form application may be stored in a combination of the devices and servers or in one of the devices or servers.

In one embodiment the graphic form application receives a search request from a user including a graphic form field and a region of interest specified by the user. The graphic form application performs a form search on a collection of form data stored in the storage device using the search request and determines a matching result that satisfies the search request. A form search is a search conducted to obtain matching forms that satisfy a search request. A matching result is a search result that satisfies a search request. The matching result includes one or more matching forms satisfying the search request. The graphic form application provides the matching result to the user. The graphic form application is described below in more detail with reference to .

Referring now to an example of the graphic form application is shown in more detail. is a block diagram of a computing device that includes a graphic form application a processor a memory and a communication unit according to some examples. In some implementations the computing device additionally includes a storage device . The components of the computing device are communicatively coupled by a bus . In some implementations the computing device can be one of a client device and a electronic writer solution server .

The processor includes an arithmetic logic unit a microprocessor a general purpose controller or some other processor array to perform computations and to optionally provide electronic display signals to a display device. The processor is coupled to the bus for communication with the other components via signal line . Processor processes data signals and may include various computing architectures including a complex instruction set computer CISC architecture a reduced instruction set computer RISC architecture or an architecture implementing a combination of instruction sets. Although includes a single processor multiple processors may be included. Other processors operating systems sensors displays and physical configurations are possible.

The memory stores instructions and or data that can be executed by the processor . The memory is coupled to the bus for communication with the other components via signal line . The instructions and or data may include code for performing the techniques described herein. The memory may be a dynamic random access memory DRAM device a static random access memory SRAM device flash memory or some other memory device. In some implementations the memory also includes a non volatile memory or similar permanent storage device and media including a hard disk drive a floppy disk drive a CD ROM device a DVD ROM device a DVD RAM device a DVD RW device a flash memory device or some other mass storage device for storing information on a more permanent basis.

The communication unit is hardware for receiving and transmitting data by linking the processor to the network and other processing systems. The communication unit receives data such as user input for a form from client device and transmits the data for example data describing one or more marks drawn in a graphic form field to the data recording module . The communication unit also transmits data to the client device for example a blank form or a form modified based on marks drawn. The communication unit is coupled to the bus via signal line .

In one embodiment the communication unit includes a port for direct physical connection to the client device or to another communication channel. For example the communication unit includes an RJ45 port or similar port for wired communication with the client device . In another embodiment the communication unit includes a wireless transceiver not shown for exchanging data with the client device or any other communication channel using one or more wireless communication methods such as IEEE 802.11 IEEE 802.16 Bluetooth or another suitable wireless communication method.

In yet another embodiment the communication unit includes a cellular communications transceiver for sending and receiving data over a cellular communications network such as via short messaging service SMS multimedia messaging service MMS hypertext transfer protocol HTTP direct data connection WAP e mail or another suitable type of electronic communication. In still another embodiment the communication unit includes a wired port and a wireless transceiver. The communication unit also provides other conventional connections to the network for distribution of files and or media objects using standard network protocols such as TCP IP HTTP HTTPS and SMTP as will be understood to those skilled in the art.

The storage device can be a non transitory memory that stores data for providing the functionality described herein. The storage device may be a dynamic random access memory DRAM device a static random access memory SRAM device flash memory or some other memory devices. In some implementations the storage device also includes a non volatile memory or similar permanent storage device and media including a hard disk drive a floppy disk drive a CD ROM device a DVD ROM device a DVD RAM device a DVD RW device a flash memory device or some other mass storage device for storing information on a more permanent basis.

In the illustrated embodiment the storage device is communicatively coupled to the bus via signal line . In one embodiment the storage device stores one or more of form data describing one or more forms that include one or more graphic form fields data describing one or more marks noted by users in a graphic form field of a form data describing one or more regions of interest in a graphic form field data describing one or more regions of exclusion in a graphic form field data describing one or more regional aggregation parameters data describing one or more marking properties and data describing one or more matching results for a search request etc. In some embodiments the storage device may store other data for providing the functionality described herein.

In the illustrated embodiment shown in the graphic form application includes a controller a data recording module a request customization module a search module a management module a presentation module and a user interface module . The components of the graphic form application are communicatively coupled via the bus .

The controller can be software including routines for handling communications between the graphic form application and other components of the computing device . In one embodiment the controller can be a set of instructions executable by the processor to provide the functionality described below for handling communications between the graphic form application and other components of the computing device . In another embodiment the controller can be stored in the memory of the computing device and can be accessible and executable by the processor . In either embodiment the controller can be adapted for cooperation and communication with the processor and other components of the computing device via signal line .

In one embodiment the controller sends and receives data via the communication unit to and from one or more of a client device and a electronic writer solution server . For example the controller receives via the communication unit a search request from a client device operated by a user and sends the search request to the request customization module . In another example the controller receives graphical data for providing a user interface to a user from the user interface module and sends the graphical data to a client device causing the client device to present the user interface to the user.

In one embodiment the controller receives data from other components of the graphic form application and stores the data in the storage device . For example the controller receives data describing one or more marks noted in a graphic form field of a form from the data recording module and stores the data in the storage device . In another embodiment the controller retrieves data from the storage device and sends the data to other components of the graphic form application . For example the controller retrieves data describing a marking property from the storage device and sends the retrieved data to the management module .

The data recording module can be software including routines for recording form data. In one embodiment the data recording module can be a set of instructions executable by the processor to provide the functionality described below for recording form data. In another embodiment the data recording module can be stored in the memory of the computing device and can be accessible and executable by the processor . In either embodiment the data recording module can be adapted for cooperation and communication with the processor and other components of the computing device via signal line .

In one embodiment the data recording module instructs the user interface module to generate graphical data for providing a user interface that depicts a form to a user. The user interface module sends the graphical data to a client device via the controller causing the client device to present the form to the user in the user interface. In some examples a form is a document that includes one or more graphic form fields. In some other examples a form also includes one or more text fields. A form can be a document having a single page or multiple pages. A graphic form field is a form component that includes a graphic. In some examples a graphic form field also includes text describing the graphic and or instructions on how to mark up the graphic. Examples of a graphic in a graphic form field include but are not limited to a diagram a drawing a sketch of an object or a body a map and a photograph taken with known geometry. For example the photograph is taken under controlled conditions so that the geometry in the photograph is known or the geometry in the photograph is determined using image analysis. Other example graphics in graphic form fields are possible.

The data recording module receives data describing one or more marks drawn by the user on a graphic of a graphic form field in the form from the client device . For example the data recording module receives data indicating that the user draws multiple strokes on a diagram included in the form. The data recording module stores form data describing the form and the one or more noted marks in the storage device . Examples of a mark noted by a user on a graphic include but are not limited to a stroke a shaded area a dot a cross mark a circle a check mark a straight line a curved line or any other mark with any other shape. The user can make the marks using a stylus or the user s finger. The marks can be input on a regular screen a zoomed in or otherwise manipulated screen. The marks can be copied from another form selected from a menu determined based on eye movement determined based on a gesture recognition system or input using any other method familiar to those of ordinary skill in the art.

In one embodiment the one or more marks noted on a graphic of a graphic form field indicate location data that describes symptom damage geographic or mark location. For example the location data indicated by marks noted on a graphic represents one of a location for a medical symptom on a diagram of a body e.g. a pain location a damage location on a diagram or a picture of an inspected item a geographic location on a map e.g. a toxic dumping location a location with oil resources etc. or a marked location on a photograph with a known geometry etc. The location data can be aggregated across multiple forms and used to help a user to make business decisions as described below in more detail. In another embodiment the one or more marks noted on a graphic also indicate description data that describes a symptom. For example a circle marked on a car diagram may indicate a dent on the car a line marked on the car diagram may indicate a scratch on the car and a cross marked on the windshield may indicate a window chip.

The request customization module can be software including routines for customizing a search request for a user. In one embodiment the request customization module can be a set of instructions executable by the processor to provide the functionality described below for customizing a search request for a user. In another embodiment the request customization module can be stored in the memory of the computing device and can be accessible and executable by the processor . In either embodiment the request customization module can be adapted for cooperation and communication with the processor and other components of the computing device via signal line .

In one embodiment the request customization module receives via the controller data indicating an initiation of a search request from a user. For example the request customization module receives data indicating that a user requests to perform a form search on a collection of form data stored in the storage device . The request customization module instructs the user interface module to generate graphical data for providing a user interface to the user which allows the user to configure the search request. For example the user interface allows the user to select a form and or one or more graphic form fields in the form to be searched on causing the search module described below to determine one or more matching forms with each matching form having at least one mark noted in at least one of the graphic form fields. A matching form is a form including one or more marks satisfying a search request.

In some implementations the user interface allows the user to specify one or more regions of interest in a graphic form field of a form causing the search module to determine one or more matching forms with each matching form having one or more marks satisfying at least one of the regions of interest e.g. each matching form having a mark in at least one of the regions of interest . A region of interest is data describing a location area that a user is interested in. For example a region of interest describes a location area on a graphic so that the matching forms determined by the search module include marks noted in the location area. Examples of a region of interest include but are not limited to a location of a medical symptom e.g. a pain location on a diagram illustrating a body or part of a body a damage location on a diagram or picture of an inspected item a geographic location on a map and a marked location on a photograph taken with a known geometry. Other example regions of interest are possible.

The region of interest can be any shape for example a circle with a point and a diameter. In one embodiment a region of interest is a rectangular shape that includes a width a height and one or more reference points for the region e.g. a center point one or more corner points for the region . A reference point is specified by a first coordinate value e.g. a value in the right arrow over x coordinate and a second coordinate value e.g. a value in the right arrow over y coordinate .

In some implementations the user interface allows the user to specify one or more regions of exclusion in a graphic form field of a form causing the search module 1 to determine one or more matching forms with each matching form having no marks in any of the regions of exclusion or 2 to exclude forms where marks exist in the region of the exclusion. A region of exclusion is data describing a location area that a user is not interested in. For example a region of exclusion indicates a location area on a graphic so that the matching forms determined by the search module do not include any marks noted in the location area. In other words marks noted in a region of exclusion are excluded in the matching result determined by the search module . In a further example assume a user intends to obtain a search result that focuses on head pain such as a headache. A region of interest for conducting the search is the head area and regions of exclusion for conducting the search include the rest of the body. The region of exclusion can be any shape for example a circle with a point and a diameter. In one embodiment a region of exclusion is a rectangular shape that includes a width a height and one or more reference points for the region e.g. a center point one or more corner points for the region .

In some implementations the user interface allows the user to specify a regional aggregation parameter for each region of interest causing the search module to determine one or more matching forms with each matching form having one or more marks satisfying the regional aggregation parameter. A regional aggregation parameter is data describing one or more criteria for aggregating marks in a region. For example a regional aggregation parameter for a region indicates one or more of the following 1 each matching form includes at least one mark in the region 2 each matching form does not include any marks in the region 3 marks in the region are completely contained within the region 4 marks in the region can be partially overlapping with another region 5 matching forms with marks found in the region are not ranked in the matching result and 6 matching forms with marks found in the region are ranked in the matching result etc. Other example regional aggregation parameters are possible.

In some implementations the user interface allows the user to specify a marking property causing the search module to determine one or more matching forms with each matching form having one or more marks satisfying the marking property. A marking property is data describing a property of a mark. For example a marking property includes one of a marking location where a mark is noted by a user a marking style describing a style of a mark e.g. a stroke a circle a cross a straight line a curved line a broken line a shaded area etc. a marking length e.g. a stroke length a circumference of a circle mark etc. a marking contour e.g. a closed stroke an open ended stroke etc. and a number of marks in a region e.g. a number of strokes etc. Other example marking properties are possible.

In one embodiment the request customization module receives data describing one or more of a graphic form field in a form one or more regions of interest one or more regions of exclusion one or more regional aggregation parameters and one or more marking properties specified by the user via the user interface. The request customization module customizes the search request for the user based on the received data. For example the request customization module configures the search request to include one or more of the graphic form field in the form the one or more regions of interest the one or more regions of exclusion the one or more regional aggregation parameters and the one or more marking properties specified by the user.

In one embodiment the request customization module generates a web service query based on the search request. In some examples the graphic form application implements the functionality described herein as web services. The request customization module converts the search request to a web service query e.g. a web service application programming interface API function in order to obtain a matching result that satisfies the web service query from the web services.

In some examples the web service API function includes one or more of the following parameters a collection parameter identifying a collection of documents e.g. a collection of form data to be searched upon a page parameter identifying a document page that includes a graphic form field a field parameter identifying the graphic form field a first coordinate value for a region of interest that indicates a distance of the region of interest relative to a first coordinate of the graphic form field e.g. a left coordinate of the region of interest relative to the left coordinate of the graphic form field a second coordinate value for the region of interest indicating a distance of the region of interest relative to a second coordinate of the graphic form field e.g. a top coordinate of the region of interest relative to the top coordinate of the graphic form field a width of the region of interest a height of the region of interest various document identifiers identifying the documents or the forms and a marking parameter identifying a marking property e.g. a style of a mark a marking length a marking contour and a number of marks in a region .

In one embodiment the request customization module sends the search request or the web service query to the search module . In another embodiment the request customization module stores the search request or the web service query in the storage device .

The search module can be software including routines for performing a form search. In one embodiment the search module can be a set of instructions executable by the processor to provide the functionality described below for performing a form search. In another embodiment the search module can be stored in the memory of the computing device and can be accessible and executable by the processor . In either embodiment the search module can be adapted for cooperation and communication with the processor and other components of the computing device via signal line .

In one embodiment the search module receives a search request or a web service query from the request customization module . The search module performs a form search on a collection of form data stored in a storage device e.g. the storage device using the search request or the web service query. The search module determines a matching result that includes one or more matching forms with each matching form satisfying the search request or the web service query. For example each of the determined matching forms includes one or more marks satisfying one or more of 1 the region of interest 2 the region of exclusion 3 the regional aggregation parameter and 4 the marking property specified by the search request. For example each matching form includes one or more marks which are located in the region of interest and not located in the region of exclusion the one or more marks satisfy a regional aggregation parameter to be completely contained in the region of interest and not overlapping with other regions and the one or more marks also satisfy a marking property to have a marking contour as an open ended stroke.

In one embodiment the search request describes a marked form including a graphic form field noted with one or more marks in a region of interest. The search module determines one or more matching forms that match the marked form. For example the search module determines one or more matching forms that include similar marks noted in the same region of interest of the same graphic form field as the marked form. In another embodiment the search request describes two or more marked forms each including graphic form fields noted by one or more marks in one or more regions of interest. The search module determines one or more matching forms that share similar marks as a first marked form and that optionally do not have similar marks as a second marked form.

The search module retrieves data describing the one or more matching forms from a storage device e.g. the storage device and sends the data to one or more of the management module and the presentation module .

The management module can be software including routines for managing a matching result that satisfies a search request. In one embodiment the management module can be a set of instructions executable by the processor to provide the functionality described below for managing a matching result that satisfies a search request. In another embodiment the management module can be stored in the memory of the computing device and can be accessible and executable by the processor . In either embodiment the management module can be adapted for cooperation and communication with the processor and other components of the computing device via signal line .

In one embodiment the management module receives one or more matching forms from the search module . The management module determines one or more marking properties associated with marks in the matching forms and organizes the one or more matching forms based on the one or more marking properties. For example the management module determines a number of marks in each matching form and ranks the one or more matching forms according to the number of marks in each matching form. In another example the management module determines a marking length for each mark in each matching form and ranks the matching forms according the maximal marking length of the marks in each matching form. In one embodiment the marking properties used to organize the matching forms are configured by a user.

In some implementations the management module determines a marking style for each mark in each matching form and organizes the matching forms based on the marking style. For example in an automobile inspection form a mark with a closed contour e.g. a circle mark may indicate a dent in an automobile and a mark noted as a cross X may indicate a window chip in the windshield. The management module filters the matching forms according to the different marking styles of the different marks and generates a first list of matching forms with closed contour marks indicating dents in automobiles and a second list of matching forms with cross marks indicating window chips in automobiles. Optionally the management module also ranks the matching forms in each list according to another marking property. For example the management module ranks the matching forms in each list according to the number of marks in each matching form.

In some implementations the management module determines a marking location for each mark in each matching form. For example the management module determines a bounding box e.g. a rectangular box a square box a circle etc. that encloses a mark. The management module determines a marking location for the mark as a midpoint within the bounding box e.g. the center of the bounding box . The management module records the marking location for the mark using a first coordinate value and a second coordinate value e.g. a first value in a first coordinate right arrow over x and a second value in a second coordinate right arrow over y .

The management module determines a number of clusters that the matching forms are classified into. For example the management module determines the number of clusters based on the square root of half of the number of matching forms

The management module organizes the matching forms into the clusters based on the marking locations of the marks. For example the management module filters each matching form into a cluster if a marking location of a mark in the matching form is within the range of the cluster. In one embodiment the management module filters each matching form into a single cluster. In another embodiment the management module filters a matching form into two or more clusters if a first mark in the matching form has a marking location within the range of a first cluster and a second mark in the matching form has a marking location within the range of a second cluster.

Optionally the management module determines a clustering location for each cluster and arranges the one or more clusters based on the clustering locations of the one or more clusters. For example the management module determines a clustering location for each cluster as a center point of the cluster and records the clustering location using a first coordinate value and a second coordinate value e.g. a first value in a first coordinate right arrow over x and a second value in a second coordinate right arrow over y . The management module ranks the one or more clusters by sorting the clustering locations of the clusters based on the first coordinate value e.g. the x value and or the second coordinate value e.g. they value .

Optionally the management module also organizes the matching forms in each cluster according to a marking location of a mark in each matching form. For example the management module ranks the matching forms in each cluster by sorting a marking location of a mark in a corresponding matching form based on the first coordinate value e.g. the x value and or the second coordinate value e.g. they value . An example clustering process to organize matching forms is illustrated in .

In one embodiment the management module sends data describing the organized matching forms e.g. the ranked matching forms the filtered matching forms etc. to the presentation module . In another embodiment the management module stores the data describing the organized matching forms in the storage device .

The presentation module can be software including routines for providing a matching result. In one embodiment the presentation module can be a set of instructions executable by the processor to provide the functionality described below for providing a matching result. In another embodiment the presentation module can be stored in the memory of the computing device and can be accessible and executable by the processor . In either embodiment the presentation module can be adapted for cooperation and communication with the processor and other components of the computing device via signal line .

In one embodiment the presentation module receives a matching result including one or more matching forms from the search module and provides the matching result to an electronic writer solution server or a client device . For example the presentation module provides the matching result to the electronic writer solution server in a machine readable format so that the electronic writer solution server can process the matching result. In another example the presentation module instructs the user interface module to generate graphical data for providing a user interface that depicts the matching result to a user. The user interface module sends the graphical data to the client device causing the client device to present the matching result to the user via the user interface. For example the user interface presented to the user depicts content in the matching forms a table view with each matching form organized in a row of a table or a summary for the matching result etc.

In another embodiment the presentation module receives one or more organized matching forms e.g. the ranked or filtered matching forms from the management module and provides the one or more organized matching forms to the electronic writer solution server or the client device . For example the presentation module instructs the user interface module to generate graphical data for providing a user interface that depicts the one or more organized matching forms to a user. In some examples the user interface allows the user to order the matching forms according to different marking properties including a marking length a number of marks or a marking style etc.

In one embodiment the presentation of the matching result includes presenting one or more of content in the matching forms e.g. content included in part of or all the pages in a matching form a count of matching forms part of or all of the fields in the matching forms text data or symbolic data from the matching forms and metadata associated with the matching forms e.g. data filled in the matching forms by users etc. In other embodiments the presentation of the matching result may include presenting other data associated with a form search to a user. In some implementations the presentation module presents the matching result to a user via a user interface depicting the matching result. In some other implementations the presentation module provides the matching result to a user by storing a copy of the matching result in the client device .

The user interface module can be software including routines for generating graphical data for providing a user interface. In one embodiment the user interface module can be a set of instructions executable by the processor to provide the functionality described below for generating graphical data for providing a user interface. In another embodiment the user interface module can be stored in the memory of the computing device and can be accessible and executable by the processor . In either embodiment the user interface module can be adapted for cooperation and communication with the processor and other components of the computing device via signal line .

In one embodiment the user interface module generates graphical data for providing a user interface to a user. The user interface module sends the graphical data to a client device causing the client device to present the user interface to the user. For example the user interface module generates graphical data for providing a user interface that depicts a form. The user interface module sends the graphical data to the client device causing the client device to present the form to a user via the user interface. In another example the user interface module generates graphical data for providing a user interface that depicts one or more matching forms to a user. In other embodiments the user interface module may generate graphical data for providing other user interfaces to users.

As an example use of the system described herein the graphic form application can search aggregate and analyze location data noted by marks on diagrams that are collected from various client devices . For example a user can draw one or more strokes on a graphic in a graphic form field displayed on the client device where the one or more strokes noted by the user indicate one or more locations in the graphic. The graphic form application aggregates the collected location data so that a user can make business decisions based on the aggregated location data. For example the user specifies in a car form query that the user wants to see results where cars have scratches on the front and back bumpers without similar scratches on the body near the bumpers. The graphic form application searches for all the forms that include marks noted on a car diagram representing scratches at the front and back bumpers without similar scratches on the body near the bumpers. The graphic form application aggregates and presents all the matching forms to a user. Because the search results will include a time that the scratches occurred on a variety of cars the user is able to identify the cause of the problem as improper use of a fixture while shipping the cars. The user can take action to prevent similar damages in the future by educating workers to use the shipping fixture correctly.

In another example the graphic form application records and aggregates location data marked by various users on a map and generates an oil exploration map including all the marks that indicate locations with potential oil resources. In yet another example the graphic form application records and aggregates location data marked by users and generates a dumping map including all the marks that indicate locations with toxic dumping.

In yet another example an employee from a rental car company marks a first set of scratches or dents on a car diagram displayed on a client device before a customer checks out the rental car. When the customer returns the rental car the employee marks a second set of scratches or dents on a similar car diagram displayed on the client device . The graphic form application compares the first set of marks to the second set of marks and determines whether additional scratches or dents are caused by the customer. Optionally the graphic form application may also search a collection of form data stored in the storage device using the marked car diagram to obtain data describing all the customers that have rented this car. Additional example use of the graphic form application is illustrated with reference to .

In some examples the management module ranks the forms in Cluster 1 in the order of Form 1 Form 5 and Form 2 according to the first coordinate values in the marking locations e.g. x

Referring to the controller optionally receives data describing a regional aggregation parameter specified by the user for the region of interest. The controller optionally receives data describing a marking property specified by the user. The request customization module customizes the search request using one or more of the region of interest the region of exclusion the regional aggregation parameter and or the marking property specified by the user. Optionally the request customization module generates a web service query based on the search request. The search module performs a form search on a collection of form data using the search request or the web service query to determine one or more matching forms that each include at least one mark satisfying one or more of the region of interest the region of exclusion the regional aggregation parameter and or the marking property. The search module retrieves the data describing the one or more matching forms from the storage device .

Referring to the management module organizes the one or more matching forms according to a first marking property. Optionally the management module ranks the one or more matching forms based on a second marking property. In one embodiment the first marking property is different from the second marking property. In another embodiment the first marking property is the same as the second marking property. The presentation module provides the one or more matching forms to the user.

The foregoing description of the embodiments has been presented for the purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the specification to the precise form disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teaching. It is intended that the scope of the embodiments be limited not by this detailed description but rather by the claims of this application. As will be understood by those familiar with the art the examples may be embodied in other specific forms without departing from the spirit or essential characteristics thereof. Likewise the particular naming and division of the modules routines features attributes methodologies and other aspects are not mandatory or significant and the mechanisms that implement the description or its features may have different names divisions and or formats. Furthermore as will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the relevant art the modules routines features attributes methodologies and other aspects of the specification can be implemented as software hardware firmware or any combination of the three. Also wherever a component an example of which is a module of the specification is implemented as software the component can be implemented as a standalone program as part of a larger program as a plurality of separate programs as a statically or dynamically linked library as a kernel loadable module as a device driver and or in every and any other way known now or in the future to those of ordinary skill in the art of computer programming. Additionally the specification is in no way limited to implementation in any specific programming language or for any specific operating system or environment. Accordingly the disclosure is intended to be illustrative but not limiting of the scope of the specification which is set forth in the following claims.

