---

title: Context sensitive and shared location based reminder
abstract: Methods and apparatuses for providing reminders are disclosed. In one example, reminders are shared across devices. In one example methods and apparatuses are provided which identify when a subscribing device of a plurality of subscribing devices is at or in proximity to a reminder location, and outputting the reminder message at the subscribing device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09300744&OS=09300744&RS=09300744
owner: Plantronics, Inc.
number: 09300744
owner_city: Santa Cruz
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130118
---
Remembering things is difficult largely because we remember important things at odd times. Some trigger in the grocery store may remind you to call your mother. Some e mail from your mother may remind you of the galvanized screws you forgot the last time you were at the grocery store. These thoughts are fleeting however. Soon the productive mind takes over and you are returned to the task at hand and those incidental thoughts pass by unattended and quickly forgotten.

A mobile computing device such as a mobile phone may be utilized to record reminders. For example one could type a reminder note or record a voice memo on the mobile device. However retrieving the reminder at the right time so it will be useful is difficult. Furthermore the user may wish the reminder to be available to others and that the reminder be provided to the other users at a time when it will be most useful.

Methods and apparatuses for providing reminders are disclosed. The following description is presented to enable any person skilled in the art to make and use the invention. Descriptions of specific embodiments and applications are provided only as examples and various modifications will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art. The general principles defined herein may be applied to other embodiments and applications without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Thus the present invention is to be accorded the widest scope encompassing numerous alternatives modifications and equivalents consistent with the principles and features disclosed herein. For purpose of clarity details relating to technical material that is known in the technical fields related to the invention have not been described in detail so as not to unnecessarily obscure the present invention.

In one example a method includes receiving a user voice communication and processing the user voice communication to identify a reminder location and a reminder message. The method further includes outputting the reminder message when a current location is the reminder location.

In one example a system for providing reminders includes a first computing device operable to receive a first reminder the first reminder including a first reminder message and a first reminder location and a second computing device operable to receive a second reminder the second reminder including a second reminder message and a second reminder location. The system further includes a server device configured to receive the first reminder and the second reminder and initiate a first reminder output or a second reminder output responsive to the location of the first computing device or the second computing device.

In one example a non transitory computer readable storage memory stores instructions that when executed by a computer cause the computer to perform a method for outputting reminders. The method includes receiving a first reminder from a first subscribing device the first reminder including a first reminder message and a first reminder location and storing the first reminder. The method includes receiving a second reminder from a second subscribing device the second reminder including a second reminder message and a second reminder location and storing the second reminder. The method further includes tracking a current location of the first subscribing device and a current location of the second subscribing device identifying when the current location of the first subscribing device is at the second reminder location and responsively outputting the second reminder message at the first subscribing device.

In one example a method includes storing a reminder message associated with a reminder location and tracking a current location of a plurality of subscribing devices. The method further includes identifying when a subscribing device of the plurality of subscribing devices is at or in proximity to a reminder location and outputting the reminder message at the subscribing device.

In one example embodiment a user presses a headset button and records a memo. A reminder application executing on the headset a mobile device or a server utilizes the memo in concert with user location to provide better timed reminder messages. A user records a memo and the memo is tagged with a location for receiving the memo. When a user mobile device is within range of the tagged location this operates as a trigger to output the memo to the user.

In one usage scenario for example 1 A user sitting at work leaves the following memo for himself Pick up asparagus at the grocery store 2 The user s computer passes this message to the cloud 3 Logic in the cloud parses the message into two pieces the location and the message and 4 When the user s phone visits the location mentioned in the memo it should prompt the user to review it.

When the headset button is pressed the user prefaces the reminder message action with a location. For example the following are example types of location analysis that are performed 1 frequently visited locations e.g. home 2 multiple locations that serve a common role e.g. grocery store 3 local terms for locations and things and 4 Loose terms that people in a given geography use to describe a place e.g. the park . Additionally the reminder application may ask clarifying questions when the user s meaning is unclear.

When a user records a message the reminder application expects an associated location. More specifically a location that is meaningful to that user. For example when a user says Don t forget to pick up Jennifer s lunchbox from school the reminder application may determine that school Oak Rd. Elementary School which is where Jennifer goes to school. The reminder application already knows this based on previous locations. For example the reminder application identifies that the user mobile device goes to Oak Rd. Elementary School at least three days a week and has done so for the past 6 years. And it doesn t go to other schools with anything close to that frequency.

In a further example a user says Don t forget to pick up a toolbox from the hardware store. The reminder application may respond Which store The user may have a specific store in mind or it may not matter. In this case the second question may be necessary to get a precise read on the desired location.

In a further example a user may say Don t forget to pick up rolls from Kelly s that could mean a friend named Kelly a bakery or a grocery store. However Kelly s may be a well known bakery in Santa Cruz. A network effect to improve location analysis may be used to identify that Kelly s is a bakery and the desired location when a user is in Santa Cruz. In a further example when someone mentions the game tonight the system may make an educated guess as to what game that is and therefore where it is. The reminder application may utilize heuristics in various location tagging models.

In one example memos may be stored in the cloud. If the user is carrying any subscribed device this device will receive the memo. When one of the user s devices visits that location an alert should display informing the user that she has a reminder. These would be aggregated if there are multiple reminders for the same location. The user is allowed to defer reminders if the timing to attend to the reminder is not convenient. Reminders can be retrieved on devices with location services. Reminders may be shared within a family for example. So a reminder to pick up dish soap at the grocery could be retrieved by either spouse on any subscribing device.

In one example voice provides an easy way to record messages. These recordings may be played back as an audio recording or text messages may be used as an alternate play back medium. Reminders may also be input as text instead of using voice recordings.

In one example a user is provided with a previously recorded reminder before the user travels to the particular location tagged to the reminder message. The system identifies that the user will be travelling to the tagged location in the near future. For example the calendaring application on a user s device or another user s subscribing device may be utilized to determine and predict a user s future location at a given time. In a further example where a user is following map based driving directions the user s route and destination may be used to predict the user s future location.

In one example a user subscribes to location based reminders from a service provider. When a user device is at a certain location the location based reminders are output. In one usage scenario the reminders are data associated with the present user location. For example the data may be an audio narrative or textual data for a place of interest that the user is currently visiting.

Mobile device and mobile device may for example be any mobile computing device including without limitation a mobile phone laptop PDA headset tablet computer or smartphone. In a further example mobile device may be any device worn on a user body including a bracelet wristwatch etc. Computing device may for example be a desktop personal computer PC notebook computer or a mobile device.

Computing device is capable of communication with server via communication network s over network connection . Network connection may be a wired connection or wireless connection. In one example network connection is a wired or wireless connection to the Internet to access server . For example computing device includes a wireless transceiver to connect to an IP network via a wireless Access Point utilizing an IEEE 802.11 communications protocol.

Similarly mobile device and mobile device are capable of communication with server via communication network s over network connections and respectively. In one example network connections and are wireless cellular communications links.

Server includes a reminder application interfacing with one or more of mobile device mobile device and computing device to receive from and provide reminders to users and . In one example reminder application stores reminders composed of reminder messages and associated reminder locations .

In one example mobile device is operable to receive a first reminder the first reminder including a first reminder message and a first reminder location. Mobile device is operable to receive a second reminder the second reminder including a second reminder message and a second reminder location. Server is configured to receive the first reminder and the second reminder and initiate a first reminder output or a second reminder output responsive to the location of the mobile device or the mobile device . The second reminder output is initiated when the mobile device is at the second reminder location or the mobile device is at the second reminder location. The first reminder output is initiated with the mobile device is at the first reminder location or the mobile device is at the first reminder location. In one embodiment the first reminder output is a text message including the first reminder message and the second reminder output is a text message including the second reminder message.

In one example operation reminder application receives a user voice communication from mobile device and processes the user voice communication to identify a reminder location and a reminder message. Where necessary reminder application may output a follow up query to request the user narrow or clarify the reminder location. The reminder message is output when a current location of the mobile device is the reminder location. In one implementation reminder application sends a text message including the reminder message to mobile device . In a further implementation the reminder message is output by playing back the user voice communication to the user at the reminder location. In one example the reminder message is output at mobile device when user and mobile device are at the reminder location. In this example mobile device is considered a subscribing device which subscribes to reminders received at mobile device .

In one example processing the user voice communication to identify a reminder location and a reminder message includes identifying a location role or category from the user voice communication wherein the reminder location is any one of multiple locations satisfying the location role or category. For example any grocery store may satisfy a grocery store reminder location.

In one example processing the user voice communication to identify a reminder location and a reminder message includes identifying a specific location from a generic location. For example identifying the specific location may include processing a history of visited locations. For example only the location Oak Rd. Elementary may satisfy a school reminder location.

In a further example operation reminder application receives a first reminder from a mobile device the first reminder including a first reminder message and a first reminder location and stores the first reminder. Reminder application receives a second reminder from a mobile device the second reminder including a second reminder message and a second reminder location and stores the second reminder. Reminder application tracks a current location of the mobile device and a current location of the mobile device identifying when the current location of the mobile device is at the second reminder location and responsively outputs the second reminder message at the mobile device . For example the reminder application may transmit the second reminder message over network s to the mobile device . Reminder application may output an update message at the mobile device indicating the second reminder message has been delivered to the mobile device at the second reminder location.

As shown in mobile device and each include a reminder application performing functions substantially similar to that described above in reference to . In this embodiment the reminder applications are synchronized such that any reminder received at one mobile device is transmitted to and stored at the other mobile devices. When one of the mobile devices is at a reminder location the reminder application outputs the reminder message. The reminder may be indicated in the form of a visual audible or vibration alert prior in conjunction with outputting the reminder message.

When a user selects to enter or program a reminder the user may select from one or more options of actions to be performed when the reminder is triggered e.g. when the mobile device is at the target location . These options include setting a text message to be delivered delivering or outputting a speech to text conversion of a memo input by voice playing back a reproduction of the recorded voice memo or even initiating a call from the mobile device . Alternatively a default action may be used without the need for the user to specify the action to be performed.

The mobile device includes a processor configured to execute code stored in a memory . Processor executes a location services application to identify a current location of mobile device . In one example the location of the mobile device may be continuously monitored or monitored periodically as needed. In one example mobile device utilizes the Android operating system. Location services application utilizes location services offered by the Android device global positioning system GPS WiFi and cellular network to determine and log the location of the mobile device. For example mobile device includes a GPS receiver for use by location services application . The GPS receiver has an antenna to receive GPS information including location information to indicate to the mobile device where it is geographically located. In further examples one or more of GPS WiFi or cellular network may be utilized to determine location. In certain cases the GPS may not be able to provide a location if a satellite signal is blocked or obstructed by buildings tunnels or trees. The cellular network may be used to determine the location of mobile device utilizing cellular triangulation methods.

In one example a Google Maps API is used which utilizes an Android phone s location services to compute the map location of the mobile device . These services consist of 2 options GPS and Network Cell Phone Location and Wi Fi . The best source from whichever service is turned on and providing data is utilized. The combination of data supplied by one or more of the primary three location services GPS WiFi and cell network provide a high level of location accuracy.

In one example mobile device may include a reminder application to prompt the user to speak or enter a reminder. The reminder application may parse the user input to identify the reminder message and reminder location from the message. Once the desired target reminder location is identified the latitude and longitude of the location may be used and or Google maps may be used to determine when the mobile device is at the target reminder location or within a certain radius of the reminder location.

While only a single processor is shown mobile device may include multiple processors and or co processors or one or more processors having multiple cores. The processor and memory may be provided on a single application specific integrated circuit or the processor and the memory may be provided in separate integrated circuits or other circuits configured to provide functionality for executing program instructions and storing program instructions and other data respectively. Memory also may be used to store temporary variables or other intermediate information during execution of instructions by processor . For example memory may include pre stored audio prompts for output through the device speaker which prompt the user to input a reminder.

Mobile device includes communication interface s one or more of which may utilize an antenna . The communications interface s may also include other processing means such as a digital signal processor and local oscillators.

Communication interface s may provide wireless communications using for example Time Division Multiple Access TDMA protocols Global System for Mobile Communications GSM protocols Code Division Multiple Access CDMA protocols and or any other type of wireless communications protocol. The specific design and implementation of the communications interfaces of the mobile device is are dependent upon the communication networks in which the device is intended to operate.

In one example communications interface s include one or more short range wireless communications subsystems which provide communication between mobile device and different systems or devices. In one embodiment communication interface s may provide access to a local area network for example by conforming to IEEE 802.11b and or IEEE 802.11g standards and or the wireless network interface may provide access to a personal area network for example by conforming to Bluetooth standards. For example the short range communications subsystem may include an infrared device and associated circuit components for short range communication or a near field communications NFC subsystem.

Memory may include both volatile and non volatile memory such as random access memory RAM and read only memory ROM . Memory may include a variety of applications executed by processor capable of receiving and outputting reminders for actions to be performed i.e. to do tasks events and miscellaneous memorandum. Memory may include a calendar application task manager application and contacts manager storing contacts to share reminders.

Where functions of the reminder application are performed locally at the mobile device as shown in as opposed to at a server these applications may be integrated with a reminder application to perform the functions described herein. Alternatively the reminder application may be implemented separately from one or more of these applications and may include one or more application programming interfaces API to integrate operations of the reminder application. Information utilized to assist in identifying reminder locations reminder records frequently visited locations stored locations and location history with may be stored in memory . Interconnect may communicate information between the various components of mobile device .

Instructions may be provided to memory from a storage device such as a magnetic device read only memory via a remote connection e.g. over a network via communication interface s that may be either wireless or wired providing access to one or more electronically accessible media. In alternative examples hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions and execution of sequences of instructions is not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software instructions.

Mobile device may include operating system code and specific applications code which may be stored in non volatile memory. An example of an operating system may include Android made by Google. For example the code may include drivers for the mobile device and code for managing the drivers and a protocol stack for communicating with the communications interface s which may include a receiver and a transmitter and is connected to an antenna . Communication interface s provides a wireless interface for communication with server and or mobile device and computing device .

In various embodiments the techniques of discussed below may be implemented as sequences of instructions executed by one or more electronic systems. The instructions may be stored by the mobile device or the instructions may be received by the mobile device e.g. via a network connection .

At block the reminder message is output when a current location is the reminder location. In one example a text message such as an instant message or email is output or the user voice communication is output. In one example the user voice communication is received at a first device and the reminder message is output at a second device when a second device current location is the reminder location.

At block a current location of a plurality of subscribing devices is tracked. In one example location data is sent from each device to a central server for tracking. In a further example tracking is performed locally at each device. At decision block it is determined whether a subscribing device of the plurality of subscribing devices is at or in proximity to a reminder location. If no at decision block the process returns to block .

If yes at decision block at block the reminder message is output at the subscribing device. In one example a subscribing device retrieves the reminder message when it is at or in proximity to the reminder location. In one example the reminder message is input at a first subscribing device of the plurality of subscribing devices and output at a second subscribing device of the plurality of subscribing devices. In one example an update message is output at the first subscribing device indicating that the reminder message has been output at the second subscribing device.

At block a second reminder from a second subscribing device is received the second reminder including a second reminder message and a second reminder location. At block the second reminder is stored.

At block a current location of the first subscribing device and a current location of the second subscribing device is tracked. At decision block it is determined if the current location of the first subscribing device is at the second reminder location.

If no at decision block the process returns to block . If yes at decision block at block the second reminder message is output at the first subscribing device. In one example the second reminder message is a text message. An update message may be output at the second subscribing device indicating the second reminder message has been delivered to the first subscribing device at the second reminder location. In one example outputting the second reminder message at the first subscribing device includes transmitting the second reminder message over a network to the first subscribing device. In a further example it is determined if the current location of the second subscribing device is at the second reminder location in which case the second reminder message is output at the second subscribing device.

At location a user has a mobile device . Mobile device is a subscribing device to reminders input at mobile device . In movement scenario user and mobile device move from location to location . Upon detection that mobile device is at location reminder message is output at mobile device . In movement scenario user and mobile device move from location to location . Upon detection that mobile device is at location reminder message is output at mobile device .

In one example the system and reminder application shown and described in reference to is used in the following scenario. Assume the user enters the following reminder Pick up a loaf of bread at Kelly s. In addition to the reminder content a record at the reminder application also has the following information 1 Time Date stamp 2 Location where reminder was recorded and 3 Person who recorded the reminder.

This record is transferred to the cloud where analysis is performed to parse the reminder into two pieces 1 Location for reminder action 2 Action to be performed. Additionally information is maintained about reminder completion. illustrates a sample record at this stage.

If there is a direct match no analysis is needed. For example a complete store name Kelly s Bakery . If the user is proximate to Kelly s Bakery she would receive the reminder notification. In this situation she would be presented with several options Complete Snooze Remind Later Add Locations Delete.

If the reminder location is a category hardware store or grocery for example there are multiple ways to approach by the reminder application. In one example the reminder application defines locations frequented by this user. For example a user parks her car in a mini mall with a hardware store a few times a week. Assuming that the first time she arrives there she receives the reminder notification. She would have options from the reminder application to Complete Snooze Remind Later Don t Like this Business Delete.

The user may use a nickname or some other arbitrary name for a location. For example a user may refer to Pro Build Building and Construction as San Lorenzo . This nickname comes from a prior name of this establishment. A search for San Lorenzo may yield a multitude of search results. If the engine cannot uniquely identify a reminder location it will need user clarification. Perhaps something as simple as is there another name for this Tor the user this definition will be retained for future use.

But this may information may be additionally useful to the wider community. Over time as data is collected by the user community it may become evident that there is a strong correlation between a location and nickname. When this situation occurs the system will continue to require confirmation but the clarifying question may change to did you mean 

In the unlikely scenario that this nickname is only ascribed to exactly one location or chain and the data is deemed sufficient this follow on question may be dropped for subsequent users.

It is also possible that a user does not know the proper place name. For example in Santa Cruz Calif. Surfer Dude almost certainly means a certain statue on West Cliff Drive in Santa Cruz. It is a common point to reconnoiter for runners and surfers alike yet it has no address. If the answer to is there another name for this happens to be no the first user would be asked to place it on a Google or similar map. Supporting data comes in the form of asking secondary users to confirm this location rather than asking them to locate it on a map. With a small amount of additional supporting data this location would become assigned to that nickname.

One s personal community may provide useful context for understanding location. For example if the reminder application has Facebook or Twitter integration the user s Facebook Friends will have useful location information. For example if a friend uses a seemingly ambiguous term and clarifies the location intention then there is a reasonable chance that my use of the same ambiguous term may coincide. In fact it s more likely that my personal community will use the same terms than the Santa Cruz community as a whole.

Additionally a user s friend may be used to provide reminder context. If for example a user s spouse talks about our house both the user and the user spouse understand the intended location. Additionally if a first user s friend and the user are meeting for beers on Thursday the location is known if not otherwise stated. The location of beers means someplace else when talking about a second friend. If a user friend Doug checks in to The Red while the user is there or the user includes him in a status post the reminder notification is output. Into the future the same applies. If some device that he or the user has allows us to know that the two are in the same place and there is some known relationship between the individuals the reminder would display.

If the location is dynamic like an event the analysis engine of the reminder application uses the volume of data to help deduce the user s intention. For example if a strong pattern can be established for the Comets game on Saturday night synergy may exist whereby one user may provide location information that can be leveraged by other users. In rural areas the game may provide adequate detail.

Additionally as discussed below reminders provide network support. One can assume that a reminder could be something like weight loss reminder eat the salad at Restaurant X . The reminders are milestones toward a larger goal. Socially one can imagine getting supporting posts from well wishers if completed actions are shared with the user s network.

Once a reminder has been properly parsed and that it has both a location and an action it may be shared with other actors. By default an action may be private meaning that the action author would be the only person who would be aware of this reminder. There are a few common ways to share via the cloud share at the time of record creation share from some list view batch lastly assume that all records are to be shared.

In one implementation the reminder application shares an activity at the time the record is created. From a user s perspective after she has created the reminder the user would optionally be able to define additional actors. From a user experience perspective in one example the user would add actors within a few seconds of recording the action or the application would go back to a state where the user can record additional reminders. In a further example the user defines sharing preferences. For example between a couple. In this case all reminders are co owned.

Assuming that the reminder has been shared a push notification is sent to any additional actors informing them that they have a new reminder. When that actor opens the application that and any other accumulated reminder s would be downloaded.

Reminders may be shared among predefined groups or teams. Each reminder is shared with the entire team. Given this model a user may belong to zero one or more teams. Team oriented status updates may be sent thumbs up and other words of encouragement between team members and percent complete toward a larger goal.

Assuming that some community of actors share one or more incomplete reminder actions the next step is to have someone perform that action. When the notification is presented the user would tap the complete button on one of her devices. This would send an update to the reminder ID and status to the cloud. The server logic would then send push notifications to any other actors participating in a reminder indicating that a reminder had been completed.

The next time another actor opens the application the reminder application indicates the completion data e.g. time date performed by location . There may be a Like or status functionality for passive actors which would be a way of thanking praising the actor who completed the action. A user may reject another person s reminder and remove themselves from the list of action actors. The owner s deletion removes the reminder for all actors.

Instructions of the various software applications e.g. reminder application location services application calendar application memorandum application discussed herein are loaded for execution on a corresponding control unit or processor. The control unit or processor may include a microcontroller a microprocessor a processor module or subsystem including one or more microprocessors and microcontrollers or other control or computing devices. The term controller refers to either software or hardware or a combination of both and may refer to multiple software or hardware modules.

While the exemplary embodiments of the present invention are described and illustrated herein it will be appreciated that they are merely illustrative and that modifications can be made to these embodiments without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. For example methods techniques and apparatuses described as applying to one embodiment or example may also be utilized with other embodiments or examples described herein. Thus the scope of the invention is intended to be defined only in terms of the following claims as may be amended with each claim being expressly incorporated into this Description of Specific Embodiments as an embodiment of the invention.

