---

title: Burst capacity for user-defined pools
abstract: One or more resource slots are instantiated and allocated to a user according to a first set of pricing policies. The user is allowed to identify at least one of the resource slots and identify other users allowed to access the identified resource slots according to a second pricing policy, the second pricing policy being designated by the user. An indication is received that a request has been received that exceeds a computing capacity. In response, additional computing capacity to allow fulfillment of the request is allocated.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09634958&OS=09634958&RS=09634958
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 09634958
owner_city: Reno
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130402
---
This application is related by subject matter to that which is disclosed in the following commonly assigned applications U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 855 449 entitled USER DEFINED POOLS and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 885 498 entitled CAPACITY MERGING FOR USER DEFINED POOLS all filed on Apr. 2 2013 the entirety of each application is hereby incorporated by reference.

A data center is a facility that houses computer systems and various networking storage and other related components. Data centers may for example provide computing services to businesses and individuals as a remote computing service or provide software as a service e.g. cloud computing . To facilitate utilization of data center resources virtualization technologies may allow a single physical computing machine to host one or more instances of virtual machines that appear and operate as independent computer machines to a connected computer user. With virtualization the single physical computing device can create maintain or delete virtual machines in a dynamic manner.

Some virtualization technologies are capable of providing virtual resources that span two or more physical resources such as a single virtual machine with multiple virtual processors that span multiple distinct physical computing systems. As another example virtualization technologies may allow data storage hardware to be shared among multiple users by providing each user with a virtualized data store that may be distributed across multiple data storage devices with each such virtualized data store acting as a distinct logical data store that provides users with the illusion that they are the sole operators and administrators of the data storage resource.

In many environments operators of data centers that implement different types of virtualized computing storage and or other network accessible resources may allow customers to reserve or purchase access to resources in various resource acquisition modes. The computing resource provider may provide facilities for customers to select and launch the desired computing resources deploy application components to the computing resources and maintain an application executing in the environment. In addition the computing resource provider may provide further facilities for the customer to quickly and easily scale up or scale down the numbers and types of resources allocated to the application either manually or through automatic scaling as demand for or capacity requirements of the application change. The computing resources provided by the computing resource provider may be made available in discrete units which may be referred to as instances. An instance may be run on directly on a physical server hardware platform within a virtual machine or some combination of the two. Various types and configurations of instances may be made available including different sizes of resources executing different operating systems OS and or hypervisors and with various installed software applications runtimes and the like.

A provider network such as a network implemented across one or more data centers may offer computing resources such as reserved instances and spot instances. A reserved instance may provide a customer with the ability to reserve a number of a specific type and configuration of an instance for a fixed term such as one year or three years. A spot instance may refer to an allocation of an instance using a spot price policy where a customer may specify the maximum price per unit of time that the customer is willing to pay to run the instance. If the customer s maximum price exceeds a dynamic spot price determined at least in part by supply and demand then the instance may be run for the customer. Other types of instances may be offered by the provider network.

In various embodiments described further in this disclosure customers may be provided with the ability to create a private marketplace that operates to offer a customer defined set of the customer s instances to a selected group of users according to a bidding or pricing policy that in some cases may be similar to a spot instance policy. For example an organization such as a university may have a set of reserved instances that are offered via a private marketplace that allows users to bid for the reserved instances. In this example the university may offer the customer defined set of instances to departments within the university. Individuals or computers within the departments can bid internally for the reserved instances. In one example the departments can bid a price or use a defined set of currency or bidding credits. In addition to the currency or bidding credits the university may also be able to customize aspects such as the minimum and maximum prices the bidding pricing algorithm interruption cycles and other parameters that may be applicable to resource types such as spot instances. The university may also be able to select other types of instances for the private marketplace such as allocated spot instances and on demand instances further described below . By providing the ability to create a private marketplace customers can more efficiently distribute its computing capacity to its internal users. This can decrease costs for the customer who may need less reserved capacity when the capacity is distributed in this manner and the provider network can increase utilization of its spare capacity. Additional embodiments of a private marketplace are further described below. In various embodiments described herein the private marketplace may be referred to as a private marketplace limited marketplace user defined pool user defined market private spot market or user defined spot market.

A user at computer or may send a request to a user defined pool generation service for creation of a user defined pool or private marketplace. In some embodiments server or may send the request on behalf of a user on behalf of itself or on behalf of other servers. In response to the request for the instance user defined pool generation service may log the request and periodically provide updates as to the status of the request. The user defined pool generation service may communicate with other services to facilitate creation of the requested private marketplace. The user defined pool generation service may for example determine what instances are associated with the user and provide an interface for facilitating selection of the user s instances selection of who may request or bid for the selected instances and selection of a pricing or bidding policy. The user defined pool generation service may further provide notifications to the user when the private marketplace goes online.

Various aspects of the disclosure are now described with regard to certain examples and embodiments which are intended to illustrate but not to limit the disclosure. It should be appreciated that the subject matter presented herein may be implemented as a computer process a computer controlled apparatus or a computing system or an article of manufacture such as a computer readable storage medium. While the subject matter described herein is presented in the general context of program modules that execute on one or more computing devices those skilled in the art will recognize that other implementations may be performed in combination with other types of program modules. Generally program modules include routines programs components data structures and other types of structures that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types.

Those skilled in the art will also appreciate that the subject matter described herein may be practiced on or in conjunction with other computer system configurations beyond those described herein including multiprocessor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics minicomputers mainframe computers handheld computers personal digital assistants e readers cellular telephone devices special purposed hardware devices network appliances and the like. The embodiments described herein may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

In the following detailed description references are made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and that show by way of illustration specific embodiments or examples. The drawings herein are not drawn to scale. Like numerals represent like elements throughout the several figures.

Networks established by or on behalf of an entity such as a company or organization to provide one or more services such as various types of cloud based computing or storage accessible via the Internet and or other networks to a distributed set of clients may be termed provider networks. Such a provider network may include one or more data centers hosting various resource pools such as collections of physical and or virtualized computer servers storage devices networking equipment and the like that may be used to implement and distribute the infrastructure and services offered by the provider network. The resources may in some embodiments be offered to clients in units called instances such as virtual or physical compute instances or storage instances. A virtual computing instance may for example comprise one or more servers with a specified computational capacity which may be specified by indicating the type and number of CPUs the main memory size and so on and a specified software stack e.g. a particular version of an operating system which may in turn run on top of a hypervisor .

A number of different types of computing devices may be used singly or in combination to implement the resources of the provider network in different embodiments including general purpose or special purpose computer servers storage devices network devices and the like. In some embodiments a client or user may be provided direct access to a resource instance e.g. by giving a user an administrator login and password. In other embodiments the provider network operator may allow clients to specify execution requirements for specified client applications and schedule execution of the applications on behalf of the client on execution platforms such as application server instances Java virtual machines JVMs general purpose or special purpose operating systems platforms that support various interpreted or compiled programming languages such as Ruby Perl Python C C and the like or high performance computing platforms suitable for the applications. This may be done without for example requiring the client to access an instance or an execution platform directly. A given execution platform may utilize one or more resource instances in some implementations in other implementations multiple execution platforms may be mapped to a single resource instance.

Each type or configuration of computing resource may be available in different sizes such as large resources consisting of many processors large amounts of memory and or large storage capacity and small resources consisting of fewer processors smaller amounts of memory and or smaller storage capacity. Customers may choose to allocate a number of small processing resources as Web servers and or one large processing resource as a database server for example.

Data center may include servers and which may be referred herein singularly as a server or in the plural as the servers that provide computing resources available as virtual machine instances and which may be referred herein singularly as a virtual machine instance or in the plural as the virtual machine instances . The virtual machine instances may be configured to execute applications including Web servers application servers media servers database servers and the like. Other resources that may be provided include data storage resources not shown and may include file storage devices block storage devices and the like.

The availability of virtualization technologies for computing hardware has provided benefits for providing large scale computing resources for customers and allowing computing resources to be efficiently and securely shared between multiple customers. For example virtualization technologies such as those provided by VMware or other virtualization systems may allow a physical computing device to be shared among multiple users by providing each user with one or more virtual machine instances hosted by the physical computing device. A virtual machine instance may be a software emulation of a particular physical computing system that acts as a distinct logical computing system. Such a virtual machine instance provides isolation among multiple operating systems sharing a given physical computing resource. Furthermore some virtualization technologies may provide virtual resources that span one or more physical resources such as a single virtual machine instance with multiple virtual processors that spans multiple distinct physical computing systems.

Referring to communications network may for example be a publicly accessible network of linked networks and possibly operated by various distinct parties such as the Internet. In other embodiments communications network may be a private network such as for example a corporate or university network that is wholly or partially inaccessible to non privileged users. In still other embodiments communications network may include one or more private networks with access to and or from the Internet.

Communication network may provide access to computers . Computers may be computers utilized by customers or other customers of data center . For instance user computer or may be a server a desktop or laptop personal computer a tablet computer a wireless telephone a personal digital assistant PDA an e book reader a game console a set top box or any other computing device capable of accessing data center . User computer or may connect directly to the Internet e.g. via a cable modem or a Digital Subscriber Line DSL . Although only two user computers and are depicted it should be appreciated that there may be multiple user computers.

Computers may also be utilized to configure aspects of the computing resources provided by data center . In this regard data center might provide a Web interface through which aspects of its operation may be configured through the use of a Web browser application program executing on user computer . Alternatively a stand alone application program executing on user computer might access an application programming interface API exposed by data center for performing the configuration operations. Other mechanisms for configuring the operation of the data center including deploying updates to an application might also be utilized.

Servers and shown in may be standard servers configured appropriately for providing the computing resources described above and may provide computing resources for executing one or more applications. In one embodiment the computing resources may be virtual machine instances . In the example of virtual machine instances each of the servers may be configured to execute an instance manager or which may be referred herein singularly as an instance manager or in the plural as the instance managers capable of executing the virtual machine instances. The instance managers may be a virtual machine monitor VMM or another type of program configured to enable the execution of virtual machine instances on servers for example. As discussed above each of the virtual machine instances may be configured to execute all or a portion of an application.

It should be appreciated that although the embodiments disclosed above discuss the context of virtual machine instances other types of implementations can be utilized with the concepts and technologies disclosed herein. For example the embodiments disclosed herein might also be utilized with computing systems that do not utilize virtual machine instances.

In the example data center shown in a router may be utilized to interconnect the servers and . Router may also be connected to gateway which is connected to communications network . Router may manage communications within networks in data center for example by forwarding packets or other data communications as appropriate based on characteristics of such communications e.g. header information including source and or destination addresses protocol identifiers etc. and or the characteristics of the private network e.g. routes based on network topology etc. . It will be appreciated that for the sake of simplicity various aspects of the computing systems and other devices in this example are illustrated without showing certain conventional details. Additional computing systems and other devices may be interconnected in other embodiments and may be interconnected in different ways.

It should be appreciated that the network topology illustrated in has been greatly simplified and that many more networks and networking devices may be utilized to interconnect the various computing systems disclosed herein. These network topologies and devices should be apparent to those skilled in the art.

It should also be appreciated that data center described in is merely illustrative and that other implementations might be utilized. Additionally it should be appreciated that the functionality disclosed herein might be implemented in software hardware or a combination of software and hardware. Other implementations should be apparent to those skilled in the art. It should also be appreciated that a server gateway or other computing device may comprise any combination of hardware or software that can interact and perform the described types of functionality including without limitation desktop or other computers database servers network storage devices and other network devices PDAs tablets cellphones wireless phones pagers electronic organizers Internet appliances television based systems e.g. using set top boxes and or personal digital video recorders and various other consumer products that include appropriate communication capabilities. In addition the functionality provided by the illustrated modules may in some embodiments be combined in fewer modules or distributed in additional modules. Similarly in some embodiments the functionality of some of the illustrated modules may not be provided and or other additional functionality may be available.

The capacity of the purchased computing resources provided by data center can be scaled in response to demand. In this regard scaling refers to the process of instantiating which may also be referred to herein as launching or creating or terminating which may also be referred to herein as de scaling instances of computing resources in response to demand. In this manner the capacity of resources purchased by a customer of data center can be scaled on demand.

Auto scaling is one mechanism for scaling computing resources in response to increases or lulls in demand for the resources. Auto scaling allows customers of data center to configure data center to scale their purchased computing resources according to conditions defined by the customer. For instance rules may be defined for scaling up capacity in a particular manner in response to the occurrence of specified conditions such as a spike in demand. Similarly rules might also be defined to scale down capacity in a particular manner in response to the occurrence of other conditions such as a lull in demand. The mechanisms disclosed herein for launching virtual machine instances might be utilized when instances are manually launched by a customer or when instances are launched by an auto scaling component in data center .

Data center may also be configured with a deployment component to assist customers in the deployment of new instances of computing resources. The deployment component may receive a configuration from a customer that includes data describing how new instances should be configured. For example the configuration might specify one or more applications or software components that should be installed in new instances provide scripts and or other types of code to be executed in new instances provide cache warming logic specifying how an application cache should be prepared and other types of information. The deployment component utilizes the customer provided configuration and cache warming logic to launch configure and prime new instances of computing resources.

In at least some embodiments a server that implements a portion or all of one or more of the technologies described herein including the techniques to implement the functionality of a pool generation service may include a general purpose computer system that includes or is configured to access one or more computer accessible media. illustrates such a general purpose computing device . In the illustrated embodiment computing device includes one or more processors and or which may be referred herein singularly as a processor or in the plural as the processors coupled to a system memory via an input output I O interface . Computing device further includes a network interface coupled to I O interface .

In various embodiments computing device may be a uniprocessor system including one processor or a multiprocessor system including several processors e.g. two four eight or another suitable number . Processors may be any suitable processors capable of executing instructions. For example in various embodiments processors may be general purpose or embedded processors implementing any of a variety of instruction set architectures ISAs such as the x86 PowerPC SPARC or MIPS ISAs or any other suitable ISA. In multiprocessor systems each of processors may commonly but not necessarily implement the same ISA.

System memory may be configured to store instructions and data accessible by processor s . In various embodiments system memory may be implemented using any suitable memory technology such as static random access memory SRAM synchronous dynamic RAM SDRAM nonvolatile Flash type memory or any other type of memory. In the illustrated embodiment program instructions and data implementing one or more desired functions such as those methods techniques and data described above are shown stored within system memory as code and data .

In one embodiment I O interface may be configured to coordinate I O traffic between processor system memory and any peripheral devices in the device including network interface or other peripheral interfaces. In some embodiments I O interface may perform any necessary protocol timing or other data transformations to convert data signals from one component e.g. system memory into a format suitable for use by another component e.g. processor . In some embodiments I O interface may include support for devices attached through various types of peripheral buses such as a variant of the Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus standard or the Universal Serial Bus USB standard for example. In some embodiments the function of I O interface may be split into two or more separate components such as a north bridge and a south bridge for example. Also in some embodiments some or all of the functionality of I O interface such as an interface to system memory may be incorporated directly into processor .

Network interface may be configured to allow data to be exchanged between computing device and other device or devices attached to a network or networks such as other computer systems or devices as illustrated in for example. In various embodiments network interface may support communication via any suitable wired or wireless general data networks such as types of Ethernet networks for example. Additionally network interface may support communication via telecommunications telephony networks such as analog voice networks or digital fiber communications networks via storage area networks such as Fibre Channel SANs or via any other suitable type of network and or protocol.

In some embodiments system memory may be one embodiment of a computer accessible medium configured to store program instructions and data as described above for for implementing embodiments of the corresponding methods and apparatus. However in other embodiments program instructions and or data may be received sent or stored upon different types of computer accessible media. Generally speaking a computer accessible medium may include non transitory storage media or memory media such as magnetic or optical media e.g. disk or DVD CD coupled to computing device via I O interface . A non transitory computer accessible storage medium may also include any volatile or non volatile media such as RAM e.g. SDRAM DDR SDRAM RDRAM SRAM etc. ROM etc. that may be included in some embodiments of computing device as system memory or another type of memory. Further a computer accessible medium may include transmission media or signals such as electrical electromagnetic or digital signals conveyed via a communication medium such as a network and or a wireless link such as may be implemented via network interface . Portions or all of multiple computing devices such as those illustrated in may be used to implement the described functionality in various embodiments for example software components running on a variety of different devices and servers may collaborate to provide the functionality. In some embodiments portions of the described functionality may be implemented using storage devices network devices or special purpose computer systems in addition to or instead of being implemented using general purpose computer systems. The term computing device as used herein refers to at least all these types of devices and is not limited to these types of devices.

A network set up by an entity such as a company or a public sector organization to provide one or more services such as various types of cloud based computing or storage accessible via the Internet and or other networks to a distributed set of clients may be termed a provider network. Such a provider network may include numerous data centers hosting various resource pools such as collections of physical and or virtualized computer servers storage devices networking equipment and the like needed to implement and distribute the infrastructure and services offered by the provider network. The resources may in some embodiments be offered to clients in units called instances such as virtual or physical computing instances or storage instances. A virtual computing instance may for example comprise one or more servers with a specified computational capacity which may be specified by indicating the type and number of CPUs the main memory size and so on and a specified software stack e.g. a particular version of an operating system which may in turn run on top of a hypervisor .

A number of different types of computing devices may be used singly or in combination to implement the resources of the provider network in different embodiments including general purpose or special purpose computer servers storage devices network devices and the like. In some embodiments a client or user may be provided direct access to a resource instance e.g. by giving a user an administrator login and password. In other embodiments the provider network operator may allow clients to specify execution requirements for specified client applications and schedule execution of the applications on behalf of the client on execution platforms such as application server instances Java virtual machines JVMs general purpose or special purpose operating systems platforms that support various interpreted or compiled programming languages such as Ruby Perl Python C C and the like or high performance computing platforms suitable for the applications without for example requiring the client to access an instance or an execution platform directly. A given execution platform may utilize one or more resource instances in some implementations in other implementations multiple execution platforms may be mapped to a single resource instance.

In many environments operators of provider networks that implement different types of virtualized computing storage and or other network accessible functionality may allow customers to reserve or purchase access to resources in various resource acquisition modes. The computing resource provider may provide facilities for customers to select and launch the desired computing resources deploy application components to the computing resources and maintain an application executing in the environment. In addition the computing resource provider may provide further facilities for the customer to quickly and easily scale up or scale down the numbers and types of resources allocated to the application either manually or through automatic scaling as demand for or capacity requirements of the application change. The computing resources provided by the computing resource provider may be made available in discrete units which may be referred to as instances. An instance may represent a physical server hardware platform a virtual machine instance executing on a server or some combination of the two. Various types and configurations of instances may be made available including different sizes of resources executing different operating systems OS and or hypervisors and with various installed software applications runtimes and the like. Instances may further be available in specific availability zones representing a data center or other geographic location of the underlying computing hardware for example.

In some embodiments the provider network may be organized into a plurality of geographical regions and each region may include one or more availability zones. An availability zone which may also be referred to as an availability container in turn may comprise one or more distinct locations or data centers configured in such a way that the resources in a given availability zone may be isolated or insulated from failures in other availability zones. That is a failure in one availability zone may not be expected to result in a failure in any other availability zone. Thus the availability profile of a resource instance is intended to be independent of the availability profile of a resource instance in a different availability zone. Clients may be able to protect their applications from failures at a single location by launching multiple application instances in respective availability zones. At the same time in some implementations inexpensive and low latency network connectivity may be provided between resource instances that reside within the same geographical region and network transmissions between resources of the same availability zone may be even faster .

The provider network may make instances available on demand allowing a customer to select a number of instances of a specific type and configuration e.g. size platform tenancy availability zone and the like and quickly launch the instances for deployment. On demand instances may further be added or removed as needed either manually or automatically through auto scaling as demand for or capacity requirements changes over time. The customer may incur ongoing usage costs related to their on demand instances based on the number of hours of operation and or the actual resources utilized for example.

The computing resource provider may also make reserved instances available to the customer. Reserved instances may provide the customer with the ability to reserve a number of a specific type and configuration of instances for a fixed term such as one year or three years for a low upfront cost in exchange for reduced hourly or other usage costs for example if and when the instances are launched. This may allow the customer to defer costs related to scaling up the deployed application in response to increase in demand while ensuring that the right resources will be available when needed. While reserved instances provide customers with reliable stand by capacity for scaling of their application purchasing reserved instances may also lock the customer into a specific number type and or configuration of computing resource in a specific availability zone for a longer period than desired. If the technical architecture or needs of the application change the customer may not be able to realize a return on their investment in the reserved instances.

Operators of such provider networks may in some instances implement a flexible set of resource reservation control and access interfaces for their clients. For example a resource manager of the provider network may implement a programmatic resource reservation interface e.g. via a Web site or a set of Web pages that allows clients to learn about select purchase access to and or reserve resource instances. In some embodiments discussed below where an entity such as a resource manager or a pricing optimizer is described as implementing one or more programmatic interfaces such as a Web page or an API an interface manager subcomponent of that entity may be responsible for the interface related functionality. In many embodiments equivalent interface related functionality may be implemented by a separate or standalone interface manager external to the resource manager and the pricing optimizer. Such an interface may include capabilities to allow browsing of a resource catalog provide details and specifications of the different types or sizes of resources supported the different reservation types or modes supported pricing models and so on.

The provider network may support several different purchasing modes which may also be referred to herein as reservation modes corresponding to some of the instance types described above. For example the provider network may support long term reservations on demand resource allocations or spot price based resource allocations. Using the long term reservation mode a client may make a low one time upfront payment for a resource instance reserve it for a specified duration such as a one or three year term and pay a low hourly rate for the instance the client would be assured of having the reserved instance available for the term of the reservation. Using the on demand mode a client could pay for capacity by the hour or some appropriate time unit without any long term commitments or upfront payments. In the spot price mode a client could specify the maximum price per unit time that it is willing to pay for a particular type of resource and if the client s maximum price exceeded a dynamic spot price determined at least in part by supply and demand then that type of resource would be provided to the client. In some embodiments dynamically resizable pools of resource instances may be set aside for the different reservation types or modes e.g. long term reserved instances may be allocated from one pool on demand instances from another and so on. During periods when the supply of the requested resource type exceeded the demand the spot price may become significantly lower than the price for the on demand mode. In some implementations if the spot price increases beyond the maximum bid specified by a client a resource allocation may be interrupted i.e. a resource instance that was previously allocated to the client may be reclaimed by the resource manager and may be allocated to some other client that is willing to pay a higher price. Other purchasing modes or combinations of modes may be implemented by the resource manager in some embodiments.

Utilizing the technologies described herein a provider network may also implement a service to allow for creation of a private marketplace. The service may provide a mechanism for customers who would like to offer their reserved instances and other types of instances to users associated with the customer or otherwise designated by the customer. For example the customer s internal users within their organizations may want to obtain shorter term reserved instances than those generally provided by the computing resource provider or only need access to an instance for a limited duration. A customer may select the remainder of the term of their reserved instances a number of unused reserved instances and allocated spot instances or a portion thereof and offer the selected instances to the customer s internal users in the private marketplace allowing the internal users to purchase bid for or otherwise request access to instances via the private marketplace. Customers may thus be provided with a method of more efficiently utilizing its acquired instances by implementing such a limited private marketplace for providing the instances to those internal users who most need or are willing to pay the most currency for the instances thus more efficiently distributing the customer s allocated capacity.

The interface manager may in some embodiments implement one or more programmatic interfaces allowing clients to search for browse reserve and acquire instances to obtain various types of services e.g. to run and or access various applications. In the illustrated embodiment at a given point in time some or all of the instances may be assigned to instance pools such as reserved instance pools A or B on demand instance pools A or B available instance pool or other pools such as other pool .

In some embodiments a given pool such as available instance pool may itself contain its own sub pools e.g. based on the modes of instance reservation and allocation supported. Each pool or sub pool may have an associated pricing policy for its instances as well as other properties such as interruptibility settings for the instances that happen to be assigned to the pool or sub pool. The pools may represent logical collections or aggregations so that for example the presence of two instances in the same pool or sub pool may not necessarily imply anything about the physical location of the hardware used for the two instances. Although the instances illustrated in are shown as belonging to availability zones in other embodiments the provider network may be organized differently e.g. in some embodiments availability zones may not be implemented. Availability zones may be grouped into geographic regions not shown in in some embodiments. Instance pools may be implemented within availability zones in some implementations e.g. each availability zone may have its own reserved instance pool while in other implementations an instance pool or sub pool may span multiple availability zones.

In some embodiments such as in a data center may be viewed as a collection of shared computing resources and or shared infrastructure. For example as shown in a data center may include virtual machine slots physical hosts power supplies routers isolation zones and geographical locations . A virtual machine slot may be referred to as a slot or as a resource slot. A physical host may be shared by multiple virtual machine slots each slot being capable of hosting a virtual machine such as a guest domain. Multiple physical hosts may share a power supply such as a power supply provided on a server rack. A router may service multiple physical hosts across several power supplies to route network traffic. An isolation zone may service many routers the isolation zone being a group of computing resources that may be serviced by redundant resources such as a backup generator. Multiple isolation zones may reside at a geographical location such as a data center . A provisioning server may include a memory and processor configured with instructions to analyze user data and rank available implementation resources using determined roles and shared resources infrastructure in the calculation. The provisioning server s may also manage workflows for provisioning and de provisioning computing resources as well as detecting health and or failure of computing resources.

A provisioning server may determine a placement of the resource within the data center. In some embodiments this placement may be based at least in part on available computing resources and or relationships between computing resources. In one embodiment the distance between resources may be measured by the degree of shared resources. This distance may be used in the ranking of resources according to role. For example a first system on a host that shares a router with a second system may be more proximate to the second system than to a third system only sharing an isolation zone . Depending on an application it may be desirable to keep the distance low to increase throughput or high to increase durability. In another embodiment the distance may be defined in terms of unshared resources. For example two slots sharing a router may have a distance of a physical host and a power supply . Each difference in resources may be weighted differently in a distance calculation.

A placement calculation may also be used when selecting a prepared resource to transfer to a client account. In one embodiment a client requests a virtual machine having an operating system. The provisioning server may determine that the request may be satisfied with a staged volume in a slot . A placement decision may be made that determines which infrastructure may be desirable to share and which infrastructure is undesirable to share. Using the placement decision a staged volume that satisfies at least some of the placement decision characteristics may be selected from a pool of available resources. For example a pool of staged volumes may be used in a cluster computing setup. When a new volume is requested a provisioning server may determine that a placement near other existing volumes is desirable for latency concerns. Therefore the decision may find that sharing a router is desirable but sharing a supply and physical host is undesirable. A volume in the pool may then be selected that matches these attributes and placed preferably on a same router as the other volumes but not the same physical host or power supply . In other examples of placement decisions such as those relating to a database shard sharing of infrastructure may be less desirable and a volume may be selected that has less infrastructure in common with other related volumes.

Operators of provider networks such as those described above may in some embodiments provide an infrastructure such as user defined pool generation service depicted in that provides customers with the ability to request and create user defined private marketplaces. In one embodiment a customer may be an entity such as an educational institution that has purchased a number of resources such as reserved instances and on demand instances. The customer may select a subset of the customer s reserved and on demand instances and create an internal marketplace in which departments and or users within the educational institution may bid internally for the reserved instances and on demand instances. The bidding process may be similar to the process for bidding for a spot instance in a spot market as described above. In some embodiments the customer may select other bidding processes or allow for bidding using other forms of payment such as with allotted credits. In various embodiments aspects may be customizable such as the currency the minimum maximum prices or price levels the bidding pricing algorithm interruption cycles and other parameters.

Referring to illustrated is an example of users allocating resources for a private marketplace in accordance with this disclosure. User A may have associated reserved instances on demand instances and spot instances . User A may allocate instances A B C and D of user A s reserved instances for user defined pool . User A may also allocate instances 1 and 2 of the spot instances for the user defined pool . Instances A B C and D of user A s reserved instances may be referred to as a subset of the reserved instances and instances 1 and 2 of the spot instances may be referred to as a subset of the spot instances . User B may have associated reserved instances and spot instances . User B may allocate instances K and L of user B s reserved instances for user defined pool . User B may also allocate instances 8 and 9 of user B s spot instances for the user defined pool . Instances K and L of user B s reserved instances may be referred to as a subset of the reserved instances and and of user B s spot instances may be referred to as a subset of the spot instances . In some embodiments user A or user B can remove instances that have been allocated to a user defined pool.

As discussed above an instance may be referred to as a resource slot a virtual machine slot or a slot. A user defined pool or private marketplace may be provided as an additional service on top of a customer s resource slots such as the user defined pool generation service of . In one embodiment the user defined pool generation service can be embodied in software that can be installed on a network of computers such as in a private data center.

A user may select a number of instances of each instance type that the user has obtained and has been allocated by the provider network. In one embodiment the user may also be able to provide or select a pricing algorithm. For example the user may be able to upload one or more algorithms or formulas using a standardized format such as XML. In one embodiment the pool generation service may provide one or more templates for an algorithm or formula. The pool generation service may also provide additional templates or predetermined selections for parameters such as the number and type of instances configuring the selected instances making selections for enforcing fairness between bidders and so on.

A number of methods can be used for allowing users to bid for instances in the private marketplace. In one embodiment the user can be provided the option of selecting an English auction method in which ascending prices are displayed and the winner is the highest bidder with the price for the instance being the highest bid. In another embodiment the user may be provided an option of selecting a Dutch auction method in which the price for the instance begins at a high level and is lowered until a user accepts the current price. As noted above the user can select a maximum price that the user is willing to pay and if the user s maximum price exceeds a dynamic price determined at least in part by supply and demand then the instance may be provided to the user.

In one embodiment the user can be provided the option of selecting a currency to be used for the bidding process. The currency can include units of value that are defined or selected by the customer when the private marketplace is created. While the customer may select traditional monetary units or values for the instances such as dollars unit of time the customer may also select other units such as CPU cycles or network bandwidth which may reflect value based on different bases of value. In some embodiments the currency may be used to bid for units of computing capacity such as a resource slot or for other units of computing capacity that may be defined by the user. For example a bid can include a monetary bid amount and an amount of desired computing capacity such as an amount of computing cycles.

In one embodiment the user defined pool generation service can provide an API for facilitating the selection of parameters for the private marketplace. The API may determine which customer is communicating with the pool generation service and generate a request to create a private marketplace. The user defined pool generation service may assign an ID to the request and track the ID of the requested private marketplace during processing of the request.

In one embodiment a customer that is only identified with a single authorized user e.g. a university customer with one authorized person who can make changes to the university account with the provider network may allow the single authorized user able to set up a private market. If there are multiple authorized persons then the pool generation service may require that a single specialized account be identified as being able to set up a private market. The user defined pool generation service may authorize the user with the specialized account based on for example credentials presented by the user. The user defined pool generation service can track the private marketplace generation activities for billing purposes. The user defined pool generation service may further track which of the users who bid on the instances in the private marketplace have bid for and have been allocated instances so that the customer may track this activity. The user defined pool generation service may track the usage on a per user basis a per use basis a per bid basis or other metering schemes and provide the information to the customer for billing and tracking purposes.

In one embodiment in response to a bid request the user defined pool generation service can embed an ID for the bidding user as metadata that can be used to identify the bidding user as the bid request is processed and fulfilled. The metadata can include fields including the user ID which can be included in the billing records. The user defined pool generation service can thus track the customer who requested the private marketplace as well as identify users who have bid for instances in the private marketplace.

In some embodiments key value pairing can be used to track the data or attributes associated with the request for the private marketplace or bids for the resource slots in the private marketplace. The user defined pool generation service may track linked data records that include a unique identifier for the data as well as the data itself or a pointer to the location of the data. For example an open ended data structure may be used to collect the user data such as .

In some cases customers may have more than one account with the provider network and thus have multiple pools of allocated resources. For example a customer may have a first account for a first project and have associated resource slots allocated with the first account. The customer may also have a second account for a second project and have associated resource slots allocated with the second account. In one embodiment the customer may be provided the ability to select resource slots associated with either the first or second accounts and allocate the selected resource slots for a single private marketplace. Customers may thus be able to mix and match resources from multiple pools of resources into one user defined pool.

In some cases two or more customers may elect to join resources and request a single private marketplace that can be accessed by users associated with the two or more customers. Thus organizations and businesses may be able to pool resources among the entities to create the private marketplace. In one embodiment the user defined pool generation service can link together accounts of two or more customers to create a single user defined pool. The user defined pool generation service may also track usage based on actual usage of the resources and by tracking the users who bid for the resources and their affiliations with the customers. The single user defined pool may be updated by a single customer who is authorized to make changes to the single user defined pool. Alternatively additional customers may be authorized to make changes to the single user defined pool. Similarly a single customer may be authorized to make changes to policies associated with the single user defined pool. Alternatively additional customers may be authorized to make changes to policies associated with the single user defined pool.

In one embodiment the functionality of the user defined pool generation service may be provided via software that can be installed and executed on a customer s computing resources. For example the customer may own and or operate their own computing infrastructure and configure their computing resources as a plurality of resource slots configured to host computing instances. The pool generation service software may provide interfaces for selecting the customer s resource slots selecting parameters for a user selected pool as described above and create the user selected pool. The pool generation service software may further facilitate the requests bids for the resource slots and track usage information for tracking billing purposes.

Referring to illustrated is an example showing entities allocating resources and users for a private marketplace in accordance with this disclosure. Entity A who may correspond to entity A in may have associated internal users A B C D E and F. Entity A may also have allocated reserved instances A B C and D of entity A s reserved instances in user defined pool . Entity A may also allocate instances 1 and 2 of entity A s spot instances for the user defined pool . Entity B may have associated internal users N P R S T and U. Entity B may also allocate instances K and L of entity B s reserved instances for user defined pool . User B may also allocate instances 8 and 9 of user B s spot instances for the user defined pool . Entity A may further authorize its internal users A B C and D subset to access its user defined pool . Entity B may further authorize its internal users R S and T subset to access its user defined pool . The authorized internal users may now bid for access to the instances in their respective user defined pools. Furthermore entity A and entity B may elect to join resources and request that user defined pool and user defined pool be joined into a single user defined pool. In one embodiment users A B C and D of entity A and users R S and T of entity B may bid for the combined single user defined pool.

In some cases the capacity of the resource slots allocated to a user defined pool by a customer may be exceeded by the requests for the resource slots generated by the users. For example a customer may underestimate the demand for resource slots and select a number of resource slots for the user defined pool that is insufficient to meet the actual demand. In one embodiment the provider network may provide an option for the customer to allow for such excess capacity demands to be met using unused capacity. For example an option may be provided to fulfill the exceeded capacity using unused capacity that is already allocated to the customer but not allocated to the user defined pool. As another example an option may be provided to fulfill the exceeded capacity using unused capacity provided by the provider network. The provider network may charge a fee for the service. By providing such a capability instead of rejecting user requests due to insufficient capacity a customer may be able to continue providing access to the user defined pool by accessing or bursting into additional capacity provided by the service provider or by the customer using the customer s unused capacity on an as needed basis. Such a capability may be useful when peak demand occurs only on an occasional basis in which case it may be more cost effective for the customer to purchase burst capacity rather than dedicate additional resource slots to the user defined pool. In some embodiments the decision as to whether excess capacity will be bursted from the provider network or from the customer s non allocated capacity can be based on a policy selected by the customer. For example the customer may specify a maximum price that the customer is willing to pay for excess capacity. The customer may also specify a maximum budget within which burst requests can be fulfilled until the maximum budget is reached.

Turning to illustrated is an example of a user defined pool configured to access burst capacity. A user defined pool may include reserved instances and as well as spot instances and . During periods of peak activity user defined pool may receive more requests than can be provided using the resources allocated to the user defined pool. In one embodiment a policy may have been established that allows user defined pool to access reserved instance pool for bursting capacity. For example as shown in the figure reserved instance slots and may be allocated to user defined pool for burst capacity. Similarly the policy may allow user defined pool to access on demand instance pool including on demand instances and and spot instance pool including spot instances and for bursting capacity.

The computing resources provided by the computing platform may include various classes of resources such as data processing resources data storage resources data communication resources and the like. Each class of computing resource may be general purpose or may be available in a number of specific configurations. For example data processing resources provided by the computing resource provider may be made available in discrete units or instances . Each instance may represent the data processing resources of a dedicated host computer referred to herein as a dedicated tenancy instance or each instance may represent a virtual machine instance executing on a host computer which may also be referred to as a shared tenancy instance.

The host computers may represent generic multi processor server devices special purpose hardware devices and the like. As discussed above various types and configurations of instances may be made available. For example each available instance of data processing resources may be of a particular size such as small medium and large representing different combinations of physical and or virtual resources comprising or allocated to the instance such as number and types of processors amounts of memory size and speed of local storage number of networking addresses or communication channels and or the like. An instance may further be configured with a particular platform such as a specific OS and or hypervisor installed on the instance. Instances may also be made available with specific application software components installed such as Web server software database management software portal software a specific runtime environment or platform and the like.

Instances may further be available in specific availability zones A and B as described above. As discussed above an availability zone may represent a particular physical location such as a data center or other physical and or logical grouping of underlying host computers and computing devices supporting the instances provided by the computing platform . Providing instances in different sizes and in different availability zones may allow a deployed application to be geographically dispersed improving end user performance and insulating the overall application from failures in one particular location or zone. For example a customer may choose to deploy a number of small instances across multiple availability zones for some functions of the application such as Web servers while deploying a single large instance for other functions such as a database server for example. The customer may also require that instances be hosted by host computers in particular geographical locations for geopolitical reasons as well.

End users may utilize end user computer systems to access the functionality of the application executing on the allocated instances through one or more networks . The network s may represent a combination of local area networks LANs wide area networks WANs the Internet and or any other networking infrastructure known in the art that connects the host computers in the computing platform to the end user computer systems to each other and to other computing resources. The end user computer systems may represent personal computers PCs desktop workstations laptops notebooks personal digital assistants PDAs electronic book readers game consoles set top boxes consumer electronics devices server computers or any other computing device capable of connecting to the network s and communicating with the host computers in the computing platform .

A customer wishing to access resources on the computing platform may similarly utilize a customer computer system to connect the computing platform over the network s and to configure and manage the computing resources provided by the computing platform. In this regard the computing platform may include a number of application servers that provide various management services to the customer for purchasing and maintaining instances of data processing and or other computing resources deploying components of the application across the purchased instances monitoring and administering execution of the application and the like. As in the case of the end user computer systems the customer computer systems may represent PCs desktop workstations laptops notebooks PDAs electronic book readers game consoles set top boxes consumer electronics devices server computers or any other computing device capable of connecting to the network s and communicating with the application servers in the computing platform .

The application servers may represent standard server computers database servers Web servers network appliances desktop computers other computing devices and any combination thereof. The application servers may execute a number of modules in order to provide the management services. The modules may execute on a single application server or in parallel across multiple application servers in the computing platform . In addition each module may consist of a number of subcomponents executing on different application servers or other computing devices in the computing platform . The modules may be implemented as software hardware or any combination of the two.

The application servers may execute an instance management module . The instance management module may allow customers to purchase and configure instances of data processing or other computing resources manage and maintain purchased instances and the like. Instances may include instances that may be obtained through various modes such as reserved instances spot instances and on demand instances as described above. Purchased instances for each customer and corresponding configuration and status information may be stored in customer instance management data . The customer instance management data may be stored in a database or other data storage system available to the application server s in the computing platform .

Reserved instances provide the customer with the ability to reserve a number of a specific type and configuration of instances for a term such as one year or three years. The reserved instances may represent actual instances of data processing resources configured as specified and placed in stand by for launch and deployment by the customer at a future time or the reserved instances may represent overall capacity reserved by the computing resource provider for quick configuration and launch when required. When deploying an application a customer may purchase and launch a number of on demand instances of a specific type and configuration e.g. size platform tenancy availability zone and the like to support immediate availability of the application as well as a number of reserved instances of the same or similar type and configuration for scaling up the application in the future in response to increased demand or capacity requirements of the application for example.

A customer may utilize a Web browser application executing on the customer computer system to access a user interface UI presented by the instance management module through a Web service to perform the configuration and maintenance of their purchased instances . The customer may utilize a Web browser application executing on the customer computer system to access a UI presented by the pool generation module through a Web service to one or more of their purchased instances as a user defined pool as discussed above. Additionally or alternatively the instance management module or pool generation module may expose an application programming interface API which may be accessed over the network s by stand alone application programs executing on the customer computer system . Other mechanisms for accessing the configuration and maintenance services of the instance management module or pool generation module may also be imagined including remote procedure calls SOAP based Web services remote file access proprietary client server architectures and the like.

In some embodiments the instance management module may allow customers to purchase both on demand instances and reserved instances. On demand instances may be purchased and launched immediately allowing for quick deployment of the components of the application. On demand instances may further be added or removed as needed either manually or automatically through auto scaling as demand for or capacity requirements of the application changes over time. The customer may incur ongoing usage costs related to their on demand instances based on the number of hours of operation of the instances and or the actual resources utilized for example.

A customer may determine that their computing capacity may be more efficiently utilized if their instances purchased at deployment of the application were offered to their internal users using a private purchase bidding process via a private marketplace as described above. For example the computation needs of the users of customer may change over time requiring data processing instances of a different sizes or platforms at different times. Similarly overall demand for the resources may change requiring more instances or requiring instances in different availability zones than originally anticipated. The customer may wish to sell their instances to their internal users in order to more efficiently utilize the computing capacity offered by their instances and provide a greater return on the original investment in the purchased instances. In this regard the pool generation module may further allow the customer to select a number of instances to allocate to a private marketplace. The instance management module may store information regarding the instance s selected for the private marketplace in reserved instance listings and spot instance listings in the database or other data storage system available to the application server s in the computing platform .

In one embodiment the customer may delegate a number of instances for a user defined pool or private marketplace that is accessible to a set of internal users as designated by the customer . In one embodiment the private marketplace may implement a private spot market that is configured to provide access to instances using some of the features used in spot markets as described above. However the private marketplace may be limited to designated or internal users of the customer . Furthermore the private marketplace may operate using a particularized set of parameters and features that are selected by the customer .

In one embodiment the pool generation module may allow customers to purchase a user defined pool or a private marketplace. User defined pools may be purchased and launched to allow users designed by customers to bid for instances that are allocated to the user defined pool. User defined pools may further be added or removed as needed by the customers either manually or automatically through the use of policies. The customer may incur one time fees and or ongoing usage costs related to their user defined pools based for example on the number of user defined pools and the number of hours of operation of the user defined pools and or the actual resources utilized.

The application servers may further execute an instance listings module . The instance listings module may allow users identified by customer to browse and bid for the instances allocated for the private marketplace. A user of customer may utilize a Web browser application executing on the customer computer system to access a user interfaces UI presented by the instance listings module through a Web service to browse and select instances listed in the private marketplace for purchase or bid. Additionally or alternatively the instance listings module may expose an API which may be accessed over the network s by stand alone application programs executing on the customer computer system .

The instance listings module may access the reserved instance listings and spot instance listings in the database to determine availability and pricing for instances meeting specified type and configuration requirements e.g. size platform tenancy availability zone and the like . The instance listings module may also effect allocation of the instances in the private marketplace. The reserved instance listings module may further store data regarding each sale of the instances through the private marketplace in private marketplace history data in the database or other data storage system. The private marketplace history data may be utilized by customer or the computing resource provider to analyze billing data regarding the allocation of instances through the private marketplace.

In some embodiments the customer may utilize one or more of the above described modules to add additional types of instances as they become available. At least some of the above described functionality can be executed on one or more of the customer s instances or can be executed on instances or other resources of the provider network.

In one embodiment the user can be provided a user interface for selecting one or more of the user s resource slots for the private marketplace and selecting associated parameters. For example the user may be able to access a user interface such as the one shown in . In one embodiment a customer may utilize a UI presented by the instance management module of to select the instances to be listed in a private marketplace. For example as shown in the instance management module or another module in the cloud computing platform may present the UI to the customer in a window of a Web browser or other client application executing on the customer computer system . The UI may include a reserved instance list listing the reserved instances of instances of currently owned by the customer including the type and configuration parameters of each such as the availability zone platform size tenancy and the like. The reserved instance list may further include the original term of each reserved instance of instances and the remaining term until the reserved instance expires. The reserved instance list may also include the current state of the reserved instances of instances such as whether the reserved instances are active have expired are already listed in a user defined pool the name of the user defined pool if already listed and the like.

The UI may further include a selection UI control such as the checkbox UI control shown in that allows the customer to select one or more reserved instances shown in the reserved instance list for listing in the private marketplace after which the customer may select a command UI control such as the create listing UI control shown in . Other methods of selecting reserved instances of instances for listing in the reserved instance marketplace through the UI may also be implemented including selecting a line in the reserved instance list with a mouse or other input control and selecting a command UI control from a context menu presented by the instance management module for the selected line for example.

After selection of an option to create a private marketplace instance management module may receive information for the parameters for the private marketplace. For example upon selecting the create user defined pool UI control in the UI shown in the instance management module or another module in the cloud computing platform may present the UI to the customer as shown in . The UI may be presented in the window of a Web browser or other client application executing on the customer computer system for example. The UI may include a summary of the private marketplace including the private marketplace user defined pool properties and bidding parameters e.g. request type bidding method currency and the like . The UI may further include a user selection UI control allowing the customer to select a maximum quantity of users who can participate in the private marketplace.

The UI may further include a number of entry UI controls A N allowing the customer to specify users who can participate in the private marketplace. According to one embodiment the customer may be able to list the specific identifier name and organization for the users who can access the marketplace. These users may have been previously entered and stored as users associated with customer . The user information can be used to determine users who are authorized to bid for the resources in the private marketplace and can also be used to track usage for billing purposes. The customer may also remove one or more users by deleting users using UI controls A N.

In some embodiments an API may be provided for facilitating the creation and management of user defined pools. The API may be configured to receive electronic messages that encode identifiers indicative of requests for allocating computing resources in a provider network and creating a user defined pool of the computing resources. In response to receiving one of the electronic messages the API may send second electronic messages indicative of information indicating that a set of resource slots associated with a customer is associated with a pricing policy and one or more users designated for the user defined pool.

Each user defined pool record may contain a customer ID identifying the customer of the cloud computing platform that is creating the private marketplace. According to one embodiment each user defined pool record may also contain an instance ID identifying the specific instance that may be associated with a bid request. The instance ID may correspond to information regarding the instance stored in the customer instance management data for example. In this embodiment each instance which is to be included in the private marketplace may have an associated user defined pool record in the database .

In some embodiments the user defined pool record may additionally or alternatively contain the type and configuration parameters describing the associated instance s including the size platform tenancy availability zone instance type and the like. The user defined pool record may also contain a user ID indicating an identification of a particular user associated with the record. The user ID may correspond to the identifier information provided by the customer when creating the user defined pool as described above with regard to .

The user defined pool record may also contain information regarding a request ID corresponding to a particular request for an instance and asking price that corresponds to the bid amount for the request. The user defined pool record may further contain information regarding one or more usage records A N also referred to herein generally as usage and billing records A N also referred to herein generally as billing . As further discussed above in regard to a user may access an instance after successfully bidding for the instance in the private marketplace. Billing records A N for usage A N may be tracked for the user for billing purposes. It will be appreciated that the user defined pool record may contain additional data elements beyond those shown in and described above that are utilized by the instance management module the instance listings module and or other modules of the cloud computing platform implementing the private marketplace.

In additional embodiments the instance management module or other modules in the cloud computing platform may provide UIs or APIs to the customer and or customer computer system that allow the customer to modify their user defined pool check the status of the user defined pool and or to delete the user defined pool if it is no longer desired to provide the instances using the user defined pool delivery mechanism.

Operation may be followed by operation . Operation illustrates receiving an indication that at least one of the resource slots associated with a first entity of the plurality of entities is associated with a second pricing policy. The indicated resource slots may be accessible to other entities. In one embodiment the second pricing policy and the other entities may be designated by the first entity. The subset may correspond to a group of resource slots designated by a customer to allocate to a private marketplace. The second pricing policy may correspond to user selected policies for offering the resource slots to the other entities. The other entities may correspond to the users designated by the customer who can access the resource slots in the private marketplace.

Operation may be followed by operation . Operation illustrates determining that the first entity has indicated that the indicated resource slots should be brought online.

If the indicated resource slots should be brought online then operation may be followed by operation which illustrates allocating the indicated resource slots to the other entities according to the second pricing policy.

Operation may be followed by operation . Operation illustrates receiving a first indication that one or more of the resource slots associated with a first entity of the plurality of entities is associated with a second pricing policy and accessible to a grouping of other entities.

Operation may be followed by operation . Operation illustrates receiving a second indication that one or more of the resource slots associated with a second entity of the plurality of entities is associated with the second pricing policy and accessible to the grouping of other entities.

Operation may be followed by operation . Operation illustrates determining that the or more of the resource slots associated with the first entity and one or more of the resource slots associated with the second entity should be combined and brought online. If the resource slots should be brought online then operation may be followed by operation which illustrates combining the or more of the resource slots associated with the first entity and one or more of the resource slots associated with the second entity and allowing the grouping of other entities to bid for the combined resource slots according to the second pricing policy.

Operation may be followed by operation . Operation illustrates receiving an indication that a request for access to the one or more resource slots has been received that exceeds a computing capacity of the one or more resource slots.

Operation may be followed by operation . Operation illustrates determining that a policy is stored for allocating excess computing capacity requests for the one or more resource slots.

If a policy is stored for allocating excess computing capacity requests for the one or more resource slots then operation may be followed by operation which illustrates allocating additional computing capacity to allow fulfillment of the request for access.

Each of the processes methods and algorithms described in the preceding sections may be embodied in and fully or partially automated by code modules executed by one or more computers or computer processors. The code modules may be stored on any type of non transitory computer readable medium or computer storage device such as hard drives solid state memory optical disc and or the like. The processes and algorithms may be implemented partially or wholly in application specific circuitry. The results of the disclosed processes and process steps may be stored persistently or otherwise in any type of non transitory computer storage such as e.g. volatile or non volatile storage.

The various features and processes described above may be used independently of one another or may be combined in various ways. All possible combinations and subcombinations are intended to fall within the scope of this disclosure. In addition certain method or process blocks may be omitted in some implementations. The methods and processes described herein are also not limited to any particular sequence and the blocks or states relating thereto can be performed in other sequences that are appropriate. For example described blocks or states may be performed in an order other than that specifically disclosed or multiple blocks or states may be combined in a single block or state. The example blocks or states may be performed in serial in parallel or in some other manner. Blocks or states may be added to or removed from the disclosed example embodiments. The example systems and components described herein may be configured differently than described. For example elements may be added to removed from or rearranged compared to the disclosed example embodiments.

It will also be appreciated that various items are illustrated as being stored in memory or on storage while being used and that these items or portions of thereof may be transferred between memory and other storage devices for purposes of memory management and data integrity. Alternatively in other embodiments some or all of the software modules and or systems may execute in memory on another device and communicate with the illustrated computing systems via inter computer communication. Furthermore in some embodiments some or all of the systems and or modules may be implemented or provided in other ways such as at least partially in firmware and or hardware including but not limited to one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs standard integrated circuits controllers e.g. by executing appropriate instructions and including microcontrollers and or embedded controllers field programmable gate arrays FPGAs complex programmable logic devices CPLDs etc. Some or all of the modules systems and data structures may also be stored e.g. as software instructions or structured data on a computer readable medium such as a hard disk a memory a network or a portable media article to be read by an appropriate drive or via an appropriate connection. The systems modules and data structures may also be transmitted as generated data signals e.g. as part of a carrier wave or other analog or digital propagated signal on a variety of computer readable transmission media including wireless based and wired cable based media and may take a variety of forms e.g. as part of a single or multiplexed analog signal or as multiple discrete digital packets or frames . Such computer program products may also take other forms in other embodiments. Accordingly the present invention may be practiced with other computer system configurations.

Conditional language used herein such as among others can could might may e.g. and the like unless specifically stated otherwise or otherwise understood within the context as used is generally intended to convey that certain embodiments include while other embodiments do not include certain features elements and or steps. Thus such conditional language is not generally intended to imply that features elements and or steps are in any way required for one or more embodiments or that one or more embodiments necessarily include logic for deciding with or without author input or prompting whether these features elements and or steps are included or are to be performed in any particular embodiment. The terms comprising including having and the like are synonymous and are used inclusively in an open ended fashion and do not exclude additional elements features acts operations and so forth. Also the term or is used in its inclusive sense and not in its exclusive sense so that when used for example to connect a list of elements the term or means one some or all of the elements in the list.

While certain example embodiments have been described these embodiments have been presented by way of example only and are not intended to limit the scope of the inventions disclosed herein. Thus nothing in the foregoing description is intended to imply that any particular feature characteristic step module or block is necessary or indispensable. Indeed the novel methods and systems described herein may be embodied in a variety of other forms furthermore various omissions substitutions and changes in the form of the methods and systems described herein may be made without departing from the spirit of the inventions disclosed herein. The accompanying claims and their equivalents are intended to cover such forms or modifications as would fall within the scope and spirit of certain of the inventions disclosed herein.

