---

title: Search result augmenting
abstract: One or more techniques and/or systems are provided for augmenting search results with a user defined suggestion and/or for providing a user defined suggestion. For example, a venue entity may be associated with search results and/or user information (e.g., a set of search results may correspond to the Eiffel Tower). User defined data associated with the venue entity may be evaluated to generate a user defined suggestion associated with the venue entity. For example, user generated content about the Eiffel Tower, such as tips, advice, opinions, and/or other information specified by social network users, may be evaluated to determine a user defined suggestion “get tower tickets early, they sell out fast”. The user defined suggestion may be provided to a user (e.g., visiting the venue entity) and/or used to augment the set of search results. In this way, practical information, derived from opinions shared by other users, may be provided.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09355181&OS=09355181&RS=09355181
owner: Microsoft Technology Licensing, LLC
number: 09355181
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130812
---
Many users may discover explore and or interact with content through various devices and or applications. In an example a user may maintain a social network profile with a social network service. For example Dave may maintain a social network profile through which Dave may share opinions tips and or advice on vacations that Dave has experienced. In another example a user may maintain a blog through a microblog social network service. For example Mary may write her opinion about running trails shoes and or other information regarding interests of Mary. Because the social network service the microblog social network service and or other content sources may expose a vast amount of information such as information related to entities and or venue entities e.g. a location a business a building a park a monument a shopping mall etc. that may be arduous for a user to sift through the user may be unable to discover information that may be relevant to the user e.g. a user may be planning a vacation to a national park venue entity that Dave has written about but the user may not discover the social network profile of Dave while researching the vacation .

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the detailed description. This summary is not intended to identify key factors or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Among other things one or more systems and or techniques for providing a user defined suggestion and or for augmenting search results with a user defined suggestion are provided herein. For example users may share tips opinions advice and or other information through content sources such as social networks websites articles etc. Such information may be identified as user defined data associated with a venue entity e.g. a user written review of an Eiffel Tower tour a social network post about a restaurant near Pike Place Market etc. . A venue entity may correspond to a location business building and or any other venue e.g. a restaurant a monument a park a lake a shopping mall etc. . Accordingly user defined data associated with the venue entity may be mined evaluated etc. to generate a user defined suggestion that may be provided to a user. The user defined suggestion may comprise a descriptive summary of the user defined data e.g. tips opinions and or advice associated with Pike Place Market may be aggregated to generate a user defined suggestion summarizing such information about the Pike Place Market . It may be appreciated that in one example a candidate user suggestion may correspond to raw user specified information e.g. a textual string submitted by a user as a tip an opinion etc. and that the user defined suggestion may correspond to a descriptive summary that is constructed using information extracted from one or more candidate user suggestions. For example the user defined suggestion may comprise an image a video audio a textual description etc. obtained using data metadata information etc. mined extracted etc. from one or more candidate user suggestions.

In an example of augmenting search results with a user defined suggestion a venue entity associated with a set of search results corresponding to a search query may be identified. For example a user may submit a search query Cleveland Amusement Park . A set of search results relevant to the search query may be identified e.g. a roller coaster history website a Cleveland Amusement Park entity pane describing various information about the Cleveland Amusement Park and or other content relevant to the Cleveland Amusement Park . A Cleveland Amusement Park entity may be identified from the set of search results. User defined data may be obtained and or evaluated to generate a user defined suggestion associated with the venue entity. For example social networks blogs microblogs websites and or other content sources through which users may share tips opinions and or advice may be searched for user defined data relating to the Cleveland Amusement Park entity e.g. don t ride the Twisted Thriller it hurt my neck don t forget to try the candy store before you leave the Green Tower was an awesome ride etc. . A user defined suggestion may be generated from the user defined data. In an example the user defined suggestion may comprise a descriptive summary constructed from the user defined data e.g. a descriptive statement summarizing various user defined suggestions within the user defined data such as Visitors love the Green Tower ride may summarize a plurality of user opinions about the Green Tower ride . In another example the user defined suggestion may comprise the user defined data or a portion thereof e.g. an opinion having a relatively high rank a number of positive endorsements etc. . In an example the user defined suggestion may comprise a video e.g. of the Green Tower ride and or any other presentation. The set of search results may be augmented with the user defined suggestion to create an augmented set of search results that may be provided in response to the search query. In an example the set of search results may be augmented with a textual description image and or other types of content that may be derived from the user defined suggestion.

In an example of providing a user defined suggestion a venue entity may be identified based upon user information associated with a user of a device. For example an email a file a current device location a calendar entry a social network profile and or a variety of other information associated with the user and or the device may be evaluated to identify the venue entity e.g. a calendar entry may specify upcoming NYC vacation . User defined data of a social network e.g. a website through which users may share tips opinions and or advice a microblog service a blog service a forum service etc. may be evaluated to generate a user defined suggestion associated with the venue entity. For example the user defined suggestion may comprise a descriptive summary of a set of candidate user suggestions extracted from the user defined data e.g. the user defined suggestion may comprise a textual description Don t forget to see the new Broadway Show Magic and or an image associated with the Broadway Show Magic . The user defined suggestion may be provided to the device. For example an alert message comprising the user defined suggestion may be displayed to the user e.g. the alert message may be provided in response to the user performing an action associated with the NYC vacation such as viewing a vacation website sending a vacation email engaging in a vacation conversation having a current location corresponding to NYC etc. . In this way practical information e.g. as opposed to merely factual information such as information provided by an encyclopedia website may be provided based upon tips opinions and or advice shared by other users based upon experiences of such users. It will be appreciated that presenting one or more user defined suggestions may allow a user to obtain find etc. additional information e.g. likely to be of interest to the user . For example a user may click on or otherwise activate clam chowder that is presented in a user defined suggestion for Pike Place Market. As a result a search query of clam chowder Pike Place Market could be triggered such that a search engine would provide search results of venues in Pike Place Market that serve clam chowder as opposed to general search results regarding clam chowder e.g. recipes for clam chowder . Thus presenting a user defined suggestion may allow a user to efficiently obtain more relevant accurate etc. search results.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the following description and annexed drawings set forth certain illustrative aspects and implementations. These are indicative of but a few of the various ways in which one or more aspects may be employed. Other aspects advantages and novel features of the disclosure will become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the annexed drawings.

The claimed subject matter is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are generally used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide an understanding of the claimed subject matter. It may be evident however that the claimed subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances structures and devices are illustrated in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the claimed subject matter.

An embodiment of augmenting search results with a user defined suggestion is illustrated by an exemplary method of . At the method starts. At a venue entity associated with a set of search results corresponding to a search query may be identified. For example a user may submit a search query zoo in PA . A set of search results relevant to the search query may be retrieved e.g. a history of zoos website a Pittsburgh Zoo social network profile a vacation website a Pittsburgh Zoo entity pane comprising a summary description of the Pittsburgh Zoo entity and or other content relevant to the zoo in PA search query may be retrieved . A venue entity such as a Pittsburgh Zoo entity may be identified from the search results and or the search query.

At user defined data may be evaluated to generate a user defined suggestion associated with the venue entity. In an example the user defined data may be crawled mined evaluated etc. offline before the search query is submitted and thus the user defined data and or user defined suggestions generated from the user defined data may be available for augmenting the set of search results before the search query is submitted. In another example the user defined data may be obtained and or the user defined suggestion may be generated in real time e.g. the user defined suggestion may be generated in real time because the user defined suggestion may be tailored based upon information about the user that submitted the search query such as social network information and or search history of the user that may indicate topics and or suggestions that may be interesting to the user . The user defined data may correspond to any information specified by a user such as a tip a suggestion and or an opinion specified by a user through a social network or other content source.

In an example a set of candidate user suggestions corresponding to the venue entity may be extracted from a social network e.g. don t forget to feed the lamas stay away from hot dogs they made us sick my daughter loved the elephant ride and or other user specified information . A candidate graph comprising one or more nodes connected by one or more edges may be generated based upon the set of candidate user suggestions e.g. candidate graph of . A node may represent a candidate user suggestion and an edge between two nodes may represent a similarity between the two nodes. For example a first node representing a first candidate user suggestion may be connected to a second node representing a second candidate user suggestion by a first edge based upon the first candidate user suggestion corresponding to the second candidate user suggestion above a correspondence threshold e.g. a stay away from hot dogs they made us sick candidate user suggestion and a the food especially the hot dogs were gross may have a relatively high correspondence above the correspondence threshold and thus nodes representing such candidate user suggestions may be connected by an edge . One or more suggestion category clusters may be generated based upon the candidate graph. For example a first suggestion category cluster may comprise one or more nodes connected by at least one edge e.g. the first suggestion category cluster may comprise nodes corresponding to user opinions on hot dogs a second suggestion category cluster may comprise nodes corresponding to user opinions on feeding lamas a third suggestion category cluster may comprise nodes corresponding to user opinions on elephant rides etc. . Respective nodes within a suggestion category cluster may be evaluated to generate the user defined suggestion as a descriptive summary of candidate user suggestions represented by nodes within the suggestion category cluster. For example respective nodes within the first suggestion category cluster may be evaluated to generate the user defined suggestion as a descriptive summary of candidate user suggestions represented by nodes within the first suggestion category cluster.

In an example the user defined suggestion may correspond to a first suggestion category e.g. a make sure to ride the elephants user defined suggestion corresponding to an elephant rides suggestion category . A second user defined suggestion corresponding to a second suggestion category e.g. a my daughter loved the lama feeding user defined suggestion corresponding to a feed lamas suggestion category may be generated from the user defined data. In this way one or more user defined suggestions may be generated for various suggestion categories. In another example one or more user defined suggestions may be generated for a suggestion category such as a third user defined suggestion corresponding to the first suggestion category e.g. a get elephant ride tickets at the gate to make sure you don t miss out user defined suggestion corresponding to the elephant rides suggestion category .

At the set of search results may be augmented with the user defined suggestion to create an augmented set of search results. In an example the user defined suggestion may be used to augment a location aware interface within the set of search results e.g. a Pittsburgh Zoo entity pane comprising a summary and or imagery associated with the Pittsburgh Zoo entity . In another example an image corresponding to the user defined suggestion may be identified e.g. a search engine social network a photo sharing service and or other content sources may be searched to identify a picture of a child feeding a lama at the Pittsburgh Zoo . The set of search results may be augmented with the image. In another example a video corresponding to the user defined suggestion may be identified and or used to augment the set of search results. In an example one or more user defined suggestions may be used to augment the set of search results. A first user defined suggestion a second user defined suggestion and or other user defined suggestions may be displayed in a ranked order such as through a treemap. For example the first user defined suggestion may be displayed in a relatively more prominent position within the treemap than the second user defined suggestion based upon the first user defined suggestion being assigned a first popularity rank greater than a second popularity rank of the second user defined suggestion due to a number of users discussing the first user defined suggestion being greater than a number of users discussing the second user defined suggestion.

At the augmented set of search results may be provided in response to the search query. For example the augmented set of search results may be displayed through a search result interface e.g. a website search interface an operating system search interface such as a search charm etc. . In an example an action may be associated with the user defined suggestion provided through the augmented set of search results. Responsive to selection of the user defined suggestion the action may be performed e.g. a display image action a display map location action a display weather action a display social network profile action a provide supplemental information action and or any other action . In this way practical information corresponding to tips opinions and or advice shared by user s may be provided. At the method ends.

In an example the user defined data e.g. after being filtered may be ranked using positive weighted features and or negative weighted features. In an example positive weighted features may comprise a number of stop words a number of adjectives a number of verbs a candidate user suggestion comprising a day of a week a number of conjunctions a candidate user suggestion specifying desired words a candidate user suggestion specifying positive superlatives or comparatives a candidate user suggestion specifying hours or time a candidate user suggestion specifying a food item a candidate user suggestion specifying a discount a candidate user suggestion specifying money a candidate user suggestion specify desired bigrams a candidate user suggestion ending with a full stop a candidate user suggestion ending with an exclamation a candidate user suggestion specifying a name of a person a candidate user suggestion comprising an emoticon a candidate user suggestion that is similar to other candidate user suggestions of the venue entity etc. In an example negative weighted features may comprise an exact duplicate text count a number of words a candidate user suggestion starting with upper case a number of prepositions a number of pronouns a relatively long candidate user suggestion a candidate user suggestion specifying a phone number a candidate user suggestion comprising a URL a number of nouns a candidate user suggestion specifying negative superlatives or comparatives a candidate user suggestion comprising profane words a candidate user suggestion length a candidate user suggestion that specifies expired information e.g. information about a Pike Place Market store that has closed for business a candidate user suggestion comprising punctuation e.g. a comma etc. Candidate user suggestions having rankings below a utility threshold may be removed from the user defined data e.g. a check out www.MySpamWebsite.com for Pike Market Place news may be detected as comprising spam content based upon the URL and thus removed from the user defined data a I hate Dave at the Pike Place Market Dave and Mary were acting like may be removed from the user defined data based upon nouns profane words and or negative superlatives .

The suggestion component may represent the candidate user suggestions within the candidate graph as nodes. In an example one or more candidate edges may be used to connect nodes representing candidate user suggestions that are similar above a correspondence threshold. In an example a first node representing the first candidate user suggestion of the clam chowder was awesome may be connected by a first edge to a second node representing the second candidate user suggestion of don t forget to try the chowder because the first candidate user suggestion is similar to the second candidate user suggestion above the correspondence threshold e.g. based upon the occurrence of chowder . In another example a third node representing the third candidate user suggestion of not sure how I felt about Pike Place may not be connected to other nodes because the third candidate user suggestion may not corresponding to other candidate user suggestions above the correspondence threshold. In another example a sixth node representing the sixth candidate user suggestion of take lots of pictures of gum wall may be connected by a second edge to a seventh node representing the seventh candidate user suggestion of my daughter put gum on the gum wall because the sixth candidate user suggestion is similar to the seventh candidate user suggestion above the correspondence threshold e.g. based upon the occurrence of gum wall . In this way the candidate graph may be generated.

The suggestion component may be configured to generate one or more suggestion category clusters based upon the candidate graph . For example a clam chowder suggestion category cluster comprising the first node the second node a fourth node representing the fourth candidate user suggestion and a ninth node representing the ninth candidate user suggestion may be generated based upon such nodes being connected by edges. A clam chowder user defined suggestion may be generated for the clam chowder suggestion category cluster as a descriptive summary of the candidate user suggestions represented by nodes within the clam chowder suggestion category cluster e.g. Try the clam chowder at Pike Place Market . A gum wall suggestion category cluster comprising the sixth node the seventh node an eighth node representing the eighth candidate user suggestion and a fifth node representing the fifth candidate user suggestion may be generated based upon such nodes being connected by edges. A gum wall user defined suggestion may be generated for the gum wall suggestion category cluster as a descriptive summary of the candidate user suggestions represented by nodes within the gum wall suggestion category cluster e.g. Make sure to visit the gum wall . In an example the third node may be removed from the candidate graph because the third candidate user suggestion may be deemed as unhelpful and or noise because the third candidate user suggestion is not similar to other candidate user suggestions and is thus not connected to at least one other node. In this way one or more user defined suggestions may be generated based upon the user defined data .

In an example the user defined data may be refreshed at a refresh interval e.g. a continual refresh a refresh at a time interval a refresh based upon a trigger event such as identification of a new business opening a business closing an upcoming festival or event etc. . In this way the user defined data may comprise fresh candidate user suggestions as opposed to stale candidate user suggestions. In an example a candidate user suggestion about a restaurant at the Pike Place Market may be removed during a refresh based upon the restaurant being closed and or a lack of candidate user suggestions regarding the restaurant. In another example a new candidate user suggestion about an upcoming festival may be added to the user defined data during a refresh.

The suggestion component may be configured to identify a venue entity associated with the set of search results such as a Pike Place Market entity . The suggestion component may be configured to evaluate user defined data to generate user defined suggestions associated with the Pike Place Market entity such as a fish tossing user defined suggestion a gum wall user defined suggestion and or a clam chowder user defined suggestion . For example social network data may be evaluated to identify one or more candidate user suggestions relating to fish tossing occurring at the Pike Place Market one or more candidate user suggestions relating to a gum wall at the Pike Place Market and one or more candidate user suggestions relating to clam chowder available at the Pike Place Market. Such candidate user suggestions may be evaluated to generating the fish tossing user defined suggestion the gum wall user defined suggestion and or the clam chowder user defined suggestion . Images associated with such user defined suggestions may be retrieved such as an image of a vendor tossing a fish a picture of the gum wall and a picture of clam chowder. In this way the user defined suggestions and or the images may be used to augment the set of search results . In an example an action may be associated with a user defined suggestion. For example responsive to a selection of the clam chowder user defined suggestion a table reservation app may be launched into a contextually relevant state so that a user may reserve a table at a Pike Place Market restaurant that serves clam chowder.

The suggestion component may be configured to identify a venue entity associated with the set of search results such as a Charlotte Motor Speedway entity . The suggestion component may be configured to evaluate user defined data to generate user defined suggestions associated with the Charlotte Motor Speedway entity such as a get tickets ahead of time user defined suggestion a the trackside seats are worth the extra price user defined suggestion a don t park in the field if you have a truck with a lift user defined suggestion and or a big draft beers user defined suggestion . For example social network data may be evaluated to identify one or more candidate user suggestions relating to various aspects of the Charlotte Motor Speedway entity such as tickets seats parking food etc. Such candidate user suggestions may be evaluated to generate the user defined suggestions . The suggestion component may augment the set of search results with the user defined suggestions .

An embodiment of providing a user defined suggestion is illustrated by an exemplary method of . At the method starts. In an example user information may be associated with a user of a device. For example the user information may comprise a calendar entry a social network profile of the user an email a file associated with user a current device location of the device a task a search task derived from search queries and or a browsing session and or any other data information associated with the user. At a venue entity may be identified based upon the user information. In an example a Central Park entity may be identified based upon a vacation calendar entry. In another example an Akron Sports Stadium entity may be identified based upon an email regarding seeing an upcoming Akron baseball game.

At user defined data of a social network e.g. tips opinions advice and or other information specified by users of a social network may be evaluated to generate a user defined suggestion associated with the venue entity. For example a set of candidate user suggestions corresponding to the venue entity may be extracted from the social network e.g. a we caught a foul ball candidate user suggestion the new scoreboard looks awesome candidate user suggestion and or other candidate user suggestions derived from user specified information associated with the Akron Sports Stadium entity . The set of candidate user suggestions may be evaluated to generate the user defined suggestion as a descriptive summary of the set of candidate user suggestions. In an example the user defined suggestion may correspond to a candidate user suggestion having a ranking above a threshold. In another example the user defined suggestion may be constructed from information comprised within one or more user defined suggestions. At the user defined suggestion may be provided to the device. In an example the user defined suggestion may be displayed as an alert through the device e.g. an alert message comprising the user defined suggestion may be displayed on a mobile device based upon the mobile device being located relatively close to the Akron Sports Stadium . At the method ends.

The suggestion component may be configured to evaluate mine etc. user defined data of a social network e.g. social network posts blogs microblog messages websites emails conversations articles and or other data sources through which users may specify tips opinions advice and or information associated with the Rock N Roll restaurant entity to generate the user defined suggestions associated with the Rock N Roll restaurant entity. For example the user defined suggestions may comprise user defined suggestions corresponding to fish Thursday night rock nights trivia night an outside patio and or other information described by users of the social network. In an example the user defined suggestions may be displayed as an alert message through the mobile device .

Still another embodiment involves a computer readable medium comprising processor executable instructions configured to implement one or more of the techniques presented herein. An example embodiment of a computer readable medium or a computer readable device is illustrated in wherein the implementation comprises a computer readable medium such as a CD R DVD R flash drive a platter of a hard disk drive etc. on which is encoded computer readable data . This computer readable data such as binary data comprising at least one of a zero or a one in turn comprises a set of computer instructions configured to operate according to one or more of the principles set forth herein. In some embodiments the processor executable computer instructions are configured to perform a method such as at least some of the exemplary method of and or at least some of the exemplary method of for example. In some embodiments the processor executable instructions are configured to implement a system such as at least some of the exemplary system of at least some of the exemplary system of at least some of the exemplary system of and or at least some of the exemplary system of for example. Many such computer readable media are devised by those of ordinary skill in the art that are configured to operate in accordance with the techniques presented herein.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing at least some of the claims.

As used in this application the terms component module system interface and or the like are generally intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a controller and the controller can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

Furthermore the claimed subject matter may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. Of course many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the claimed subject matter.

Although not required embodiments are described in the general context of computer readable instructions being executed by one or more computing devices. Computer readable instructions may be distributed via computer readable media discussed below . Computer readable instructions may be implemented as program modules such as functions objects Application Programming Interfaces APIs data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the computer readable instructions may be combined or distributed as desired in various environments.

In other embodiments device may include additional features and or functionality. For example device may also include additional storage e.g. removable and or non removable including but not limited to magnetic storage optical storage and the like. Such additional storage is illustrated in by storage . In one embodiment computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein may be in storage . Storage may also store other computer readable instructions to implement an operating system an application program and the like. Computer readable instructions may be loaded in memory for execution by processing unit for example.

The term computer readable media as used herein includes computer storage media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions or other data. Memory and storage are examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM Digital Versatile Disks DVDs or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by device . Any such computer storage media may be part of device .

Device may also include communication connection s that allows device to communicate with other devices. Communication connection s may include but is not limited to a modem a Network Interface Card NIC an integrated network interface a radio frequency transmitter receiver an infrared port a USB connection or other interfaces for connecting computing device to other computing devices. Communication connection s may include a wired connection or a wireless connection. Communication connection s may transmit and or receive communication media.

The term computer readable media may include communication media. Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal may include a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal.

Device may include input device s such as keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device infrared cameras video input devices and or any other input device. Output device s such as one or more displays speakers printers and or any other output device may also be included in device . Input device s and output device s may be connected to device via a wired connection wireless connection or any combination thereof. In one embodiment an input device or an output device from another computing device may be used as input device s or output device s for computing device .

Components of computing device may be connected by various interconnects such as a bus. Such interconnects may include a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI such as PCI Express a Universal Serial Bus USB firewire IEEE 1394 an optical bus structure and the like. In another embodiment components of computing device may be interconnected by a network. For example memory may be comprised of multiple physical memory units located in different physical locations interconnected by a network.

Those skilled in the art will realize that storage devices utilized to store computer readable instructions may be distributed across a network. For example a computing device accessible via a network may store computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein. Computing device may access computing device and download a part or all of the computer readable instructions for execution. Alternatively computing device may download pieces of the computer readable instructions as needed or some instructions may be executed at computing device and some at computing device .

Various operations of embodiments are provided herein. In one embodiment one or more of the operations described may constitute computer readable instructions stored on one or more computer readable media which if executed by a computing device will cause the computing device to perform the operations described. The order in which some or all of the operations are described should not be construed as to imply that these operations are necessarily order dependent. Alternative ordering will be appreciated by one skilled in the art having the benefit of this description. Further it will be understood that not all operations are necessarily present in each embodiment provided herein. Also it will be understood that not all operations are necessary in some embodiments.

Further unless specified otherwise first second and or the like are not intended to imply a temporal aspect a spatial aspect an ordering etc. Rather such terms are merely used as identifiers names etc. for features elements items etc. For example a first object and a second object generally correspond to object A and object B or two different or two identical objects or the same object.

Moreover exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance illustration etc. and not necessarily as advantageous. As used herein or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . In addition a and an as used in this application are generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form. Also at least one of A and B and or the like generally means A or B or both A and B. Furthermore to the extent that includes having has with and or variants thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising .

Also although the disclosure has been shown and described with respect to one or more implementations equivalent alterations and modifications will occur to others skilled in the art based upon a reading and understanding of this specification and the annexed drawings. The disclosure includes all such modifications and alterations and is limited only by the scope of the following claims. In particular regard to the various functions performed by the above described components e.g. elements resources etc. the terms used to describe such components are intended to correspond unless otherwise indicated to any component which performs the specified function of the described component e.g. that is functionally equivalent even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure. In addition while a particular feature of the disclosure may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several implementations such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the other implementations as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application.

