---

title: Systems and methods to facilitate repeated purchases
abstract: Systems and methods are provided to facilitate repeated purchase and payment transactions. In one aspect, a system includes an interchange and a data storage facility configured to store payment transaction records associated with phone numbers. The interchange includes a common format processor and a plurality of converters to interface with a plurality of different controllers of mobile communications. The converters are configured to communicate with the controllers in different formats and to communicate with the common format processor in a common format. The common format processor is configured to identify a prior payment transaction associated with a phone number in response to a message from a mobile phone having the phone number, communicate with a merchant to repeat a purchase according to the prior payment transaction, and transmit via one of the converters premium messages to the mobile phone to collect funds for a payment to repeat the purchase.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08774758&OS=08774758&RS=08774758
owner: Boku, Inc.
number: 08774758
owner_city: San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130723
---
This is a continuation of prior U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 453 198 filed on Apr. 23 2012 which claims priority from U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 479 200 filed on Apr. 26 2011 all of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

At least some embodiments of the disclosure relate to mobile communications in general and more particularly but not limited to mobile communications to facilitate online transactions.

Short Message Service SMS is a communications protocol that allows the interchange of short text messages between mobile telephone devices. SMS messages are typically sent via a Short Message Service Center SMSC of a mobile carrier which uses a store and forward mechanism to deliver the messages. When a mobile telephone is not reachable immediately for the delivery of the message the SMSC stores the message for later retry.

SMS messages can be sent via gateways. Some gateways function as aggregators. An aggregator typically does not have the capacity the deliver the messages directly to the mobile phones. An aggregator typically interfaces with and relies upon the SMSC of a mobile carrier to deliver SMS messages.

Some gateways function as providers that are capable of sending text messages to mobile devices directly without going through the SMSC of other mobile operators.

Text messaging between mobile telephones can also be performed using other protocols such as SkyMail and Short Mail in Japan.

Some mobile carriers provide email gateway services to allow text messages to be sent to mobile phones via email. For example a non subscriber of the mobile carrier may send a message to an email address associated with a mobile phone of a subscriber of the mobile carrier to have the message delivered to the mobile phone via text messaging.

Emails can also be sent to mobile telephone devices via standard mail protocols such as Simple Mail Transfer Protocol SMTP over Internet Protocol Suite commonly TCP IP named from two of the protocols the Transmission Control Protocol TCP and the Internet Protocol IP .

Short messages may be used to provide premium services to mobile phones such as news alerts ring tones etc. The premium content providers may send the messages to the SMSC of the mobile operator using a TCP IP protocol such as Short Message Peer to peer Protocol SMPP or Hypertext Transfer Protocol for delivery to a mobile phone and the mobile phone is billed by the mobile operator for the cost of receiving the premium content.

Premium services may also be delivered via text messages initiated from the mobile phone. For example a televoting service provider may obtain a short code to receive text messages from mobile phones and when the user sends a text message to the short code the mobile carrier routes the message to the televoting service provider and charges the user a fee a portion of which is collected for the televoting service provider.

Systems and methods are provided to facilitate repeated online transactions. Some embodiments are summarized in this section.

In one aspect a system includes a data storage facility configured to store payment transaction records associated with phone numbers and an interchange coupled with the data storage facility. The interchange includes a common format processor and a plurality of converters to interface with a plurality of different controllers of mobile communications. The converters are configured to communicate with the controllers in different formats and the converters are configured to communicate with the common format processor in a common format to facilitate deposit transactions and payment transactions.

In one embodiment the payment transaction records include at least one record for a successful prior payment transaction which record includes data indicating a user selection of an option to authorize a respective merchant involved in the prior payment transaction to request payments on behalf of a user of a phone number associated with the record.

In one embodiment in response to a message from the mobile phone having the phone number the common format processor is configured to identify the prior payment transaction associated with the phone number of the mobile phone communicate with the merchant to repeat a purchase identified according to the prior payment transaction and transmit via one of the converters a plurality of premium messages to the mobile phone to collect funds for a payment to repeat the purchase.

In one embodiment in response to a payment request from the merchant the common format processor is configured to determine whether to accept or reject the payment request based at least in part on the data indicating the user selection of the option.

In another aspect a computer implemented method includes receiving a message from a mobile phone having a phone number identifying in response to the message a previous payment transaction processed by the computing device for the phone number communicating with a merchant to repeat a purchase identified according to the previous payment transaction and processing a payment to the merchant using funds associated with the phone number to repeat the purchase.

The disclosure includes methods and apparatuses which perform these methods including data processing systems which perform these methods and computer readable media containing instructions which when executed on data processing systems cause the systems to perform these methods.

Other features will be apparent from the accompanying drawings and from the detailed description which follows.

The following description and drawings are illustrative and are not to be construed as limiting. Numerous specific details are described to provide a thorough understanding. However in certain instances well known or conventional details are not described in order to avoid obscuring the description. References to one or an embodiment in the present disclosure are not necessarily references to the same embodiment and such references mean at least one.

Reference in this specification to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the disclosure. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment nor are separate or alternative embodiments mutually exclusive of other embodiments. Moreover various features are described which may be exhibited by some embodiments and not by others. Similarly various requirements are described which may be requirements for some embodiments but not other embodiments.

In one embodiment an interchange is used to interface with a plurality of different controllers of mobile communications such as SMS messages. The interchange can be used to receive deposit requests and payment requests in an online environment. The interchange is configured to communicate with the mobile phones through the different controllers to provide security and convenience for online transactions.

In a data storage facility stores user accounts and the corresponding phone numbers of the mobile phones . The interchange is coupled with the data storage facility to confirm operations in the accounts of the users via mobile communications with the mobile phones at the corresponding phone numbers .

In the interchange may communicate with different controllers of mobile communications via different networks e.g. and and or protocols. The interchange processes the requests in a common format and uses a set of converters for communications with the different controllers respectively.

For example the controllers may be different aggregators providers and or SMSCs of different mobile carriers. Based on the phone numbers the interchange interfaces with the corresponding controllers to communicate with the mobile phones via text messaging to confirm the operations related to the corresponding accounts .

In the user terminals may use a unified interface to send requests to the interchange . For example a web site of the interchange may be used to receive deposit requests from the web browsers running in the user terminals . The deposit requests may be received directly from the user terminal or via a third party which interfaces between the interchange and the user terminal . For example the third party may operate a web site to receive deposit requests from the user terminal and provide the deposit requests to the interchange via an application programming interface API e.g. an API provided using a web service . The user terminals are typically different from the mobile phones . In some embodiments users may use the mobile phone to access the web and submit the deposit request. Alternatively the users may use the mobile phone to submit the deposit requests via text messaging email instant messaging etc.

The use of the mobile phones in the confirmation of the accounts increases the security of the transaction since the mobile phones are typically secured in the possession of the users.

Further in one embodiment the interchange may use the phone bills of the mobile phones to collect funds for the accounts that are associated with the mobile phones for the convenience of the users e.g. those who do not have a credit card or a bank account .

In one embodiment once the user accounts are funded through the mobile phones the users may use the user terminals to access online servers to make purchases. The users can use the accounts to make the payment for the purchases using the user terminals without revealing their financial information to the operators of the servers .

In other embodiments the interchange may use other fund sources to deposit funds into the account . For example the data storage facility may further store information about other financial accounts of the user such as bank accounts credit card accounts PayPal accounts etc. not shown in . Such information about the financial accounts of the user can be associated with the phone number in the data storage facility . In response to a deposit request from the user terminal the interchange may identify the phone number to retrieve the information about at least one financial account of the user. Using the phone number the interchange may transmit a confirmation message to the corresponding mobile phone . If the user replies to the confirmation message from the mobile phone the interchange may charge the financial account of the user e.g. via automated clearing house ACH using the information about the financial account to deposit funds into the account of the user. Alternatively the user may provide the information about the financial account e.g. a bank account a credit card number a charge card number etc. from the mobile phone together with the user s reply to the confirmation message. Alternatively the user may provide the information about the financial account e.g. a bank account a credit card number a charge card number etc. from the user terminal together with the deposit request.

In one embodiment the funds stored in the account are in the unit of a currency e.g. U.S. dollar Euro British pound etc. In some embodiments the funds stored in the account may be in the equivalent unit of a currency such as points stars virtual currency money etc.

In one embodiment the mobile phones are used by the corresponding users to make payments and or manage funds such as for making purchases in various websites hosted on the servers of merchants and service providers and or for transferring funds to or from an account hosted on the data storage facility or other accounts such as telecommunication accounts of the mobile phones with telecommunication carriers phone bills of land line telephone services credit card accounts debit card accounts bank accounts etc. The mobile phones are used to confirm and or approve the transactions associated with account or other accounts . The interchange interfaces the mobile phones and the servers to confirm and or approve transactions and to operate on the account and or other accounts associated with the phone number .

For example the user terminal may provide the phone numbers to the servers to allow the servers to charge the accounts via the interchange . The interchange sends a message to the mobile phone via the phone number to confirm the payment. Once the payment is confirmed via the corresponding mobile phone the interchange pays the server using the funds from the corresponding the account and or other accounts associated with the phone number such as bank accounts credit card accounts debit card accounts mobile phone bills accounts land line phone bill accounts etc. .

In one embodiment the user terminal may not even provide the phone number to the server to process the payment. The server redirects a payment request to the interchange which then prompts the user terminal to provide the phone number to the web site of the interchange .

For example the server may redirect the payment request to the web site of the interchange with a reference indicating the purchase made via the user terminal . The interchange can use the reference to complete the payment with the server for the purchase after receiving the phone number directly from the user terminal or other information identifying the account to confirm the payment via the mobile phone .

In one embodiment when the interchange charges on the phone bill of the mobile phone to fund the account the mobile carrier of the mobile phone may deduct a portion from the billed amount from the funds provided to the interchange . Thus the interchange actually receives only a portion of the amount billed to the mobile phone . However the interchange may credit the full amount to the account associated with the mobile phone . The fees taken by the mobile carrier can be recovered through charging the user and or the merchant for the usage of the account .

For example the interchange may charge the account a fee for paying the server to complete a purchase and the interchange may charge the server a fee for transferring the funds to the server e.g. by deducting a portion from the amount paid by the user to the operator of the server . For example the interchange may charge a periodic fee e.g. a monthly fee to maintain the account . The interchange may charge a fee when the funds are initially deposited into the account via the mobile phone where the fee is smaller than the fee charged by the mobile carrier.

In one embodiment the overall fees charged by the interchange may be equal to or larger than the initial fees charged by the mobile carrier to deposit the funds into the account to avoid losing money. In some embodiment the operations of the interchange may be supported by advertisements and the interchange may charge less than what the mobile carrier charges to deposit the funds into the account .

For example the interchange may spread out the charges by the mobile carrier for depositing the funds into the account on a per transaction basis or a per process basis instead of a lump sum at the time the user deposits funds into his account .

For example the interchange may charge the user account a smaller fee than what the mobile carrier charges when the funds are initially deposited into the user account via the mobile carrier. For instance when a user deposits 10 to the account via the mobile carrier the mobile carrier may take 3 30 providing 7 to the interchange . The interchange may charge the user only 1 and thus credit the account with 9 alternatively the interchange may credit the account with the full 10 without deducting the amount that is charged by the mobile carrier at the time the funds are deposited.

However for the amount credited to the account the interchange is configured to pass to the merchants only 7 of the funds received from the mobile carrier for the purchases made by the user. The merchants may be the operators of the servers . The interchange may charge the user and or the merchant fees on a per transaction basis. For example the user may be charged an amount for a payment to the merchant and the merchant may be charged another amount for the payment. Thus the fees charged by the mobile carrier are actually deferred until the funds in the account are used and the cost for the fees charged by the mobile carrier can be shared by the user and the merchant.

In some embodiments the user may request a loan from the interchange for the account and the loan is repaid through billing the mobile phone . The interchange may charge interest for the loan.

In one embodiment the interchange allows the users to schedule recurring or nonrecurring transactions according to a calendar. The data storage facility stores the schedule of the transactions associated with the phone number . Based on the schedule the interchange can collect funds via the telecommunication carriers before the scheduled dates for the transactions store the funds in the account and complete the transactions on the scheduled dates using the funds in the account .

In the interchange includes a common format processor which processes various payment options in a common format. In one embodiment the common format processor can handle the payments via mobile terminated text message mobile originated text message operator bill credit card stored value account and other online payment options. The common format processor determines the actual amount that is to be billed to the user based on the payment options e.g. mobile terminated premium SMS mobile originated premium SMS operator billing credit cards etc. and selects a converter to communicate with a corresponding controller .

Different converters are configured to communicate with corresponding controllers in different languages and protocols. The converters perform the translation between the common format used by the common format processor and the corresponding formats used by the controllers .

The use of the common format processor simplifies the structure of the interchange and reduces the development effort required for the interchange to interface with the increasing number of different controllers such as SMSC mobile providers aggregators gateways etc.

The common format processor includes a decision engine which decides how to generate a set of one or more messages to the mobile phone based on a set of rules regulations limits records and restrictions .

For example different countries have different regulations governing the mobile communications with the mobile phones . For example different mobile carriers have different rules regarding premium messages. For example past transaction records can be used to monitor the transactions to discover suspected fraudulent activities. For example parental limits and merchant restrictions can be imposed.

Base on results of the decision engine the mobile message generator generates one or more messages to communicate with the mobile phone about the transaction e.g. a deposit request or a payment request . The converter then interfaces with the corresponding controller to transmit the messages to the mobile phones .

The deposit request may be a request for a loan to fund the user account associated with the phone number and stored in the data storage facility or a request to fund the account via premium messages charged to the mobile phone. The loan may be repaid via subsequent premium messages charged to the mobile phone.

In the deposit request is confirmed via a round trip confirmation message from the interchange to the mobile phone such as a round trip SMS message. Alternatively the confirmation messages can be sent to the mobile phone associated with the phone number via emails instant messages etc. After the confirmation the interchange sends the premium messages to bill the mobile phone for the deposit or to make a loan to the account . In other embodiments the interchange may charge a credit card account or a bank account associated with the phone number to fund the account . In some embodiments the interchange may send an instruction with the confirmation message to the mobile phone to instruct the user to send mobile originated premium messages to the interchange to fund the account .

The account stored in the data storage facility can be used to pay purchases made via the server . For example after the user terminal transmits the purchase request to the server the server redirects the purchase request to the interchange or directly contacts the interchange for the payment e.g. after collecting account information such as the phone number from the user terminal .

To complete the payment the interchange contacts the mobile phone via text messaging or other types of messages such as instant messages emails etc. to confirm the payment. The interchange uses the funds in the account to make the payment once a confirmation is obtained from the mobile phone . For example the interchange may use its own bank account to pay the merchant operating the server and deduct an amount from the account . Thus the financial information of the user is not revealed to the merchant.

In the user interface further includes an option list which allows the user to select various ways to fund the account such as charging the mobile phone on its phone bill requesting a loan e.g. to be repaid via the phone bill charging credit cards or bank accounts associated with the account etc. In the example illustrated in the checkbox is selected to request a deposit via charging the mobile phone e.g. via premium messages via operator billing by mobile phone carrier .

In one premium message billing method the interchange sends mobile terminated premium SMS messages to the mobile phone to bill the user or requests the mobile phone to send mobile originated premium SMS messages to a short code representing the interchange .

In one operator billing method the interchange directly sends a message to the mobile carrier of the mobile phone to bill the amount on the phone bill of the mobile phone without having to send a premium message to the mobile phone .

In one embodiment after the deposit request is submitted via the user interface the interchange sends a text message to the mobile phone to request a confirmation.

In the user interface the user may enter the code e.g. 1 in the reply message and select the send button to confirm the deposit request or select the cancel button to ignore the message and thus block the request .

In one embodiment the code requested in the text message is a predetermined code and is provided in the text message . The presence of the code in the reply message is an indication of the user approving the request and the requirement for such a code in the reply eliminates false confirmations e.g. generated via accidental replies or automated replies .

In some embodiments the code requested in the text message may be a personal identification number PIN associated with the account . The text message does not include the code and the knowledge of the code is an indication of the identity of the user. Thus the use of such a code increases the security of the transaction.

In a further embodiment the code requested in the text message includes a code that is provided in response to the deposit request e.g. via the user interface not shown in . The code may be generated randomly at the time the request is received via the user interface or when the user interface is presented to the user. The code provided to the user interface can be requested in the reply received in the user interface to indicate that the user who is in possession of the mobile phone has actual knowledge about the deposit request submitted via the user interface .

In a further embodiment a secret code is provided in the confirmation message . The user may use the secret code in the user interface provided on the user terminal to confirm that the user has received the secret code provided to the mobile phone and approve the deposit request via the mobile phone without having to reply from the mobile phone . In one embodiment the secret code is a random number a random character string or a random string of words generated by the interchange in response to the deposit request. In some embodiment the secret code is an identifier that represents the transaction associated with the deposit request. The user may approve the confirmation message via providing the secret code back to the interchange via replying from the mobile phone where the user receives the secret code and or replying from the user terminal where the user initially submits the deposit request.

After the confirmation message is received with the correct code the interchange performs operations to fund the account according to user selected options.

In some embodiments the user may select the options via the replying text message sent via the user interface instead of the user interface used to make the request. In some embodiments the user may make the request via a mobile phone e.g. by sending a text message to a short code representing the interchange .

In a premium message billing method the interchange calculates the required premium messages to bill to the mobile phone . For example mobile terminated premium SMS messages may have a predetermined set of prices for premium messages. The interchange determines a combination of the premium messages that has a price closest to the amount specified by the user and sends this combination of premium messages to the mobile phone according to the rules regulations limits records restrictions etc.

Mobile originated premium SMS messages may also have a predetermined set of prices for premium messages. The interchange can calculate the set of messages required to make the deposit and transmit a text message to the mobile phone of the user to instruct the user to send the required number of premium messages to make the deposit.

In one embodiment after the user selects the payment option the server directs the request to the web server of the interchange with a set of parameters to indicate the amount the identity of the merchant a reference to the purchase etc. Thus the user does not have to provide any personal information to the server of the merchant to complete the payment process.

In one embodiment the server presents the payment option via an online shopping cart system or a third party checkout system. Alternatively or in combination the server presents the payment option via a web widget. For example a web widget may include a program code that is portable and executable within a web page without requiring additional compilation. The web widget allows the user to select the option to pay for the product and or service without leaving the web page or refreshing the web page. In one embodiment the interchange provides the web widget to facilitate the payment processing.

In other embodiments the user interface may request a PIN for enhanced security. For example the user may be required to register with the interchange prior to using the services of the interchange and after registering with the interchange the user is provided with the PIN or can created a customized PIN to access the functionality provided by the user interface . User authentication may be used to reduce false messages to the phone number .

Alternatively the user interface may request an identifier of the account to initiate the payment transaction. In some embodiments the user interface requires the user to provide no information other than the phone number in the text field to initiate the transaction.

In one embodiment once the user selects the accept button the interchange transmits a confirmation message to the mobile phone according to the phone number provided in the text field .

In one embodiment the confirmation message includes the instruction to reply with a code such as a code provided in the confirmation message as illustrated in . Alternatively the requested code may include a PIN associated with the account and or a code not shown randomly generated and presented in the user interface used to initiate the payment transaction e.g. user interface . Alternatively a secret code representing the payment request may be provided in the confirmation message and the user may approve the payment transaction providing the secret code back to the interchange via replying from the mobile phone where the user receives the secret code and or replying from the user terminal where the user submits the payment request.

After the correct reply is received the interchange pays the payee using the funds from the account and notifies the user when the payment transaction is complete.

For example the interchange may notify the user via a text message to the mobile phone as illustrated in . illustrates a user interface to confirm the completion of a payment transaction according to one embodiment. No reply to the message that confirms the completion of the payment transaction is necessary. Once the payment transaction is complete the user would have access to the product purchased via the payment transaction.

In one embodiment the server offers products and or services adapted for a virtual world environment such as an online game environment a virtual reality environment etc. The products may be virtual goods which can be delivered via the transmission of data or information without having to physically deliver an object to the user . For example the virtual goods may be a song a piece of music a video clip an article a computer program a decorative item for an avatar a piece of virtual land in a virtual world a virtual object in a virtual reality world etc. For example an online game environment hosted on a server may sell services and products via points or virtual currency which may be consumed by the user while engaging in a game session. For example a virtual reality world hosted on a server may have a virtual currency which may be used by the residents of the virtual reality world to conduct virtual commerce within the virtual reality world e.g. buy virtual lands virtual stocks virtual objects services provided in the virtual reality world etc . In other embodiments the server may also offer physical goods such as books compact discs photo prints postcards etc.

In one embodiment the interchange stores an address of the user associated with the phone number . After the completion of the payment transaction the interchange provides the address to the server of the merchant for the delivery of the purchased product. In some embodiments the user may provide multiple addresses associated with the phone number and may select one as a delivery address in the confirmation approve message to the interchange . Alternatively the interchange may receive an address for product delivery from the mobile phone together with the confirmation approve message and then forward the address to the server of the merchant. Thus the shipping address of the transaction is verified to be associated with the mobile phone . In alternative embodiments the user may directly provide the shipping address in the website hosted on the server of the merchant.

In other embodiments the user is provided with the options to pay via the mobile phone bill associated with the phone number . The interchange may dynamically calculate a set of premium messages based on a set of limited number of predetermined prices for premium messages to match the purchase price. The interchange sends the set of premium messages to the mobile phone at the phone number to collect the funds via the telecommunication carriers to pay for the purchases. Thus the purchase prices are not limited to the set of predetermined prices for premium messages. In some embodiments the interchange may send the set of premium messages in a period of time e.g. a week a month a number of mouths etc. to spread the payments over the period of time e.g. to overcome budget limits and or limits imposed by regulations .

After receiving a portion of the amount from the carrier of the mobile phone the interchange may credit the account associated with the mobile phone with the full amount or an amount larger than the portion received from the carrier or even an amount larger than what the user is charged via the phone bill . The carrier may keep a portion of the amount as fees for the services provided by the carrier in processing the premium message.

Alternatively the interchange may credit the same amount as the portion received from the carrier and deduct the portion that was taken by the carrier as a fee for collecting the funds via the phone bill.

In one embodiment the merchant may specify the second fee. Different merchants may offer different percentages of the purchase prices as the second fee and the interchange may calculate the first fee based on the second fee offered by the merchant by deducting the second fee from the fees charged by the telecommunication carrier for collecting the funds via the mobile phone bill associated with the telephone number and or the fees charged by the interchange for processing the payments. Since the first fee is charged to the customer e.g. the purchaser of products and services the cost to the customer can vary based on the selection of the merchant. For the same purchase prices the first fee and thus the cost to the customer may be different for purchases made via different merchants because the merchants may offer different percentages of the purchase price as the second fee. In some embodiments the first and second fees include both fees charged by the telecommunication carrier for collecting the funds via the mobile phone bill account associated with the phone number and the fees charged by the interchange for processing the payments. In some embodiments the first fee includes the fees charged by the telecommunication carrier but no fees charged by the interchange . In some embodiments the second fee includes the fees charged by the telecommunication carrier but no fees charged by the interchange . In some embodiments the first fee and or the second fee do not include the fees charged by the telecommunication carrier. In some embodiments the first fee is not charged and in other embodiments the second fee is not charged.

In one embodiment the interchange allows the user to schedule transactions such as recurring payments. Based on the schedule the interchange can initiate the collection of funds into the accounts in advance e.g. via sending premium messages to the mobile phone at the phone number . After the funds are collected in the accounts the transactions can be closed substantially in real time as the interchange initiates the transactions. Using the funds from the account the interchange does not have to wait for the telecommunication carrier of the mobile phone to charge the user e.g. via a monthly bill and then provide the funds to the interchange . The interchange can provide a confirmation message to the mobile phone on the date the transaction is scheduled and as soon as the interchange receives a confirmation via the mobile phone the interchange can close the transaction using the account e.g. on the same day . Thus the user confirmation via the mobile phone to confirm the transaction is substantially the real time authentication to manage the bill payments.

In one embodiment the interchange allows the user to pay for a yearly subscription by contributing monthly to the account via the mobile phone . The interchange may pay the corresponding payee monthly for the user s yearly subscription or at the end of the year . In some embodiments the interchange is used to schedule monthly payments for the subscription for a year and at the end of the year the user is offered the opportunity to extend the service for another year. In some embodiments the interchange is used to schedule a payment on a date marked on a calendar and at the time of the payment the user is offered the opportunity to make the same payment in a predetermined time period from the current payment e.g. a week two weeks a month a year etc. .

For example the users may use the interchange to pay for small bills that are or can be periodic monthly weekly etc. The interchange may let the user to choose a recurring option when they make their first purchase and maybe even offer them a discount. For example at the time a gamer uses the interchange to pay 10 for 100 tokens from a server of a game website the interchange can offer the gamer to schedule an automatic 10 purchase per month for 120 tokens from a server . The gamer may be further offered the opportunity to cancel or skip the monthly purchase whenever he wants.

In some embodiments the user may schedule payments based on calendar events. The user may schedule the collections of funds in anticipation of future transactions e.g. monthly payments or purchases .

In some embodiments the user may opt in or opt out. For example after a user makes a certain type of payment or purchase the interchange may automatically schedule monthly transactions to make similar payments or purchases e.g. monthly weekly or yearly . The user may opt out of such a schedule entirely or reject some or all of the scheduled transactions e.g. by not providing a confirmation for each of the transactions . In some embodiments after the user rejects a predetermined number of successive recurring instances of a scheduled transaction the interchange cancels the schedule. Alternatively at the first payment the interchange offers the user the opportunity to schedule a recurring transaction based on the current transaction.

In the interface provides the option to make the payment for the particular purchase only. Alternatively the user may select the option to schedule a recurring transaction that is to be repeated after the time period specified via the selection box . In some embodiments the user may further specify the number of times the transaction will be repeated.

In some embodiments the user may specify a date on a calendar for the next transaction and the user will be prompted to decide whether to further repeat the payment on the date specified on the calendar when the user is prompted to confirm the transaction on the date specified on the calendar.

When the user selects the option the interchange records parameters to initiate the repeated purchase with the server on behalf of the user on the scheduled date for the next payment. In some instances the interchange records the identity of the user of the server and the identity of the user of the server may be sufficient to communicate to the server the products and or services purchased by the user. For example the user may make the payment as a monthly fee to access the service of the server or make the payment to obtain credits points virtual money etc. that can be used to redeem premium services and or products from the server .

In some embodiments the server and or the interchange may provide discounts for the scheduled transactions e.g. transactions scheduled before a predetermined number of days . For example the server may offer a percentage of discounts for monthly fees paid via the schedules maintained on the interchange . For example the server may offer bonus credits points virtual money etc. for scheduled purchases made via the interchange . In some embodiments the interchange offers a discount in the fees for processing the transactions such that the server may obtain the regular revenue from the purchase without offering a discount or bonus credits points virtual money etc. In some embodiments the interchange and the server may share the cost to offer the discount or incentive for the scheduled transactions.

In some embodiments the interchange further records the parameters that represent the products and or services purchased by the user. Thus the parameters can be used by the interchange on the scheduled dates to make the same or similar purchases on behalf of the user.

In the user may select the option to request the interchange to collect funds into the account for similar payments. However the interchange would not initiate the purchase or payment transaction on behalf of the user. The interchange prepares the funds e.g. according to the amount in anticipation of a similar payment and or transaction that will be made by the user. The user may use the funds to make a purchase from a different vendor or to make a payment to a different payee.

In one embodiment the account associated with the phone number can be used to quickly settle a transaction with little or almost no delay. For example an electronic payment can be made using the funds from the account almost immediately after the interchange initiates the payment process. However funds collected via other accounts associated with the phone number may take much longer. For example it may take nearly a month to collect funds through the phone bill at the phone number e.g. collected via sending premium messages to the mobile phone or via receiving premium messages from the mobile phone or via operator bill . When the payment or the intended payment is scheduled on the interchange the interchange can start the fund collecting process ahead of the anticipated payment to allow the payment to settle on the scheduled dates without further delay. Without the schedule the interchange may have to postpone sending the notification of the payment completion to the server until the funds are collected and transferred to the server or the interchange may have to extend credits to the user for the time period between when the interchange uses its own funds to close the payment transaction and when the interchange obtains the corresponding funds from the user or asks the server to extend credits to the user .

Thus scheduling the transactions with the interchange allows the interchange to start collecting the funds into the account before the transaction and allows the user to make the payment substantially in real time for the scheduled payments or purchases.

In some embodiments after the user submits the phone number and the selected payment option e.g. via the user interface the user is provided with a code e.g. a one time code which can be submitted from the mobile phone at the phone number to confirm the request.

Alternatively after receiving the request via the user interface the interchange sends a message to the mobile phone at the phone number and requests the user to confirm the request via the mobile phone .

In the user interface provides the options to schedule a future purchase or payment when the user uses the user terminal e.g. using a web browser to access the server or make a payment or purchase on the server . In other embodiments the user is offered similar options when the interchange transmits a confirmation message to the mobile phone at the phone number as illustrated in .

In the user may reply to the message with the code 1 to confirm the payment of 10.00 to www.games.com or reply to the message with the code 2 to confirm the payment of 10.00 to www.games.com and further schedule a monthly payment of 10.00 to www.games.com starting a month from the current payment. If the user does not want to complete the payment of 10.00 to www.games.com the user may choose to ignore the message . In some embodiments the user may reply to the message with a special code e.g. 99 to report an attempted misuse of the user s phone number for payment.

In one embodiment the user may specify the time period for the recurring payment transaction. For example the user may reply with 2 m to schedule the payment as a monthly payment or 2 w as a weekly payment. In one embodiment the user may specify the date for repeating the transaction. For example the user may reply with 2 6 15 to schedule the next payment on June 15. For example the user may reply with 2 6 15 m 5 to schedule five monthly payments starting on June 15.

In some embodiments the user may also request the interchange to schedule fund collections without initiating the payment or purchases on behalf of the user. For example the user may reply with 3 7 21 to request the interchange to schedule the collection of 10.00 the same amount as the current transaction for an anticipated payment or purchase. However the user may or may not actually initiate the payment or purchase and the user may not use the funds to make a purchase from the same payee e.g. www.games.com as in the example illustrated in .

In some embodiments the user interface may further provide a code not shown in e.g. a one time code in the message . Using the one time code the user may confirm the transaction by using a web browser e.g. on the user terminal to visit a web server of the interchange without having to reply to the message using the mobile phone .

In one embodiment after a transaction is scheduled on the interchange the interchange stores the schedule on the database. On the date of the scheduled transaction or a predetermined number of days before the scheduled transaction the interchange transmits a message to the mobile phone at the phone number to ask the user to confirm the transaction. Thus the user has the opportunity to confirm the transaction to reject the transaction to postpone the transaction to skip one transaction to cancel the schedule etc. as illustrated in .

In one embodiment the message is transmitted to the mobile phone a predetermined time period prior to when the interchange is scheduled to perform the transaction. If the user fails to respond to the message within the predetermined time period the interchange skips the transaction. If the transaction is a recurring transaction the current transaction will be skipped and the next transaction is scheduled according to the time period of the recurring transaction.

In the message indicates a recurring monthly payment purchase that will be initiated by the interchange on behalf of the user of the mobile phone . The message shows the amount of the transaction and the identity of the payee. In other embodiments the message may provide further details about the transaction such as the products and or services to be purchased on behalf of the user of the mobile phone the discounts or incentives applied to the scheduled transaction etc.

In some instances the scheduled transaction is a fund collecting operation which does not involve a payee. The funds collected are stored into the account associated with the phone number .

In some embodiments for a scheduled payment or purchase the interchange may provide separate messages to initiate the collection of funds and to initiate the payment or purchase. Alternatively once the user confirms the transaction at the time of initiating the collection of funds for the transaction the interchange may not require the user to further explicitly confirm the payment or purchase at the time to initiate the payment or purchase although the interchange may provide a notification message to the mobile phone and provide the user with the opportunity to stop the payment or purchase if the user chooses to . In other embodiments the interchange may skip the confirmation operation at the time to initiate the collection of funds and require the user to explicitly confirm the payment or purchase at the time to initiate the payment or purchase.

In the user may reply to the message with the code 1 to make the payment for the transaction in the current month and schedule the transaction for the next month or with the code 2 to skip the transaction in the current month and schedule the transaction for the next month or with the code 3 to cancel the schedule of the transaction and thus the user will not be prompted for the transaction in the following months .

In some embodiments the user may reply with codes to modify the schedule. For example the user may reply with 1 10 15 m 5 to allow the interchange to perform the current transaction and schedule the next five monthly transactions starting on October 15. For example the user may reply with 2 10 15 to ask the interchange to skip the current transaction and reschedule it on October 15. In some embodiments the user may specify a different amount for the next scheduled transaction and or for the current transaction .

In one embodiment the message further includes a one time code which can be used by the user on a user terminal to respond to the message without having to reply using the mobile phone . The one time code represents the message and the one time code expires after a predetermined period of time.

If a future transaction is scheduled the interchange stores a schedule in the data storage facility of the interchange . Based on the schedule the interchange sends premium message to the mobile phone at the phone number to collect the funds into the account for the transactions and communicates with the mobile phone for the confirmation of the transactions. For example the interchange estimates the time required to complete the collection of funds into the account via sending the premium messages to the mobile phone and uses the estimated time and the scheduled date of the transaction to determine when to send the premium messages . The interchange may communicate with the mobile phone at the time to send the premium messages and or at the time to perform the transaction.

The interchange then determines a second date based on the first date and an estimated time period to collect funds via the telecommunication carrier. The determination may be based on past statistical data for collecting funds from the user or based on similar users in the same geographical area and or with the same telecommunication carrier the billing schedule of the telecommunication carrier etc.

The interchange then transmits premium messages to a mobile phone at the phone number on the second date to collect funds for the transaction. The interchange places the collected funds in the account associated with the phone number and uses the funds to complete the transaction on the scheduled date.

The interchange estimates a time period between the transmitting of a premium message to the mobile phone and the receiving of funds collected by a telecommunication carrier of the mobile phone according to the premium message to determine a date to transmit premium messages to the mobile phone .

After transmitting on the date one or more premium messages to the mobile phone to collect funds into the account for the second transaction the interchange performs the second transaction according to the schedule using the funds collected into the account .

In one embodiment the scheduled second transaction is a periodic transaction e.g. a monthly transaction a weekly transaction a bi weekly transaction etc. . In another embodiment the scheduled second transaction is a future transaction scheduled according to a calendar and at the time the second transaction is confirmed approved the user is offered another opportunity to further schedule a future transaction on a date specified by the user.

In one embodiment prior to performing the second transaction the interchange communicates with the mobile phone at the phone number to confirm the second transaction on a date on which the future transaction is scheduled. Thus the user is provided with the opportunity to skip the transaction to postpone the transaction to confirm the transaction and or to schedule a new future transaction.

In one embodiment the interchange transmits a notification to the mobile phone at the phone number a predetermined period of time prior to the second transaction e.g. less than a day . The user does not have to respond to the notification to allow the interchange to perform the second transaction. However the user may optionally respond to the notification to skip or cancel the transaction to postpone the transaction to confirm the transaction and or to schedule a new future transaction.

In one embodiment the interchange communicates with the mobile phone at the phone number to confirm the request and to prompt the first party to schedule at least one future transaction.

In one embodiment the amount scheduled for the second transaction is based on the amount specified in the request for the first transaction. Alternatively the user may separately specify an amount for the second transaction which may be different from the amount for the first transaction.

In one embodiment the second transaction is scheduled based on a predetermined time period from the current transaction. Alternatively the user may use a calendar to schedule the second transaction.

In one embodiment when the interchange prompts the first party to schedule the second transaction the interchange also offers a discount or an incentive for the second transaction scheduled with the interchange . The second transaction may be scheduled to pay the second party using the funds collected via the telecommunication carrier of the mobile phone or scheduled without a specified payee e.g. to merely collect funds into the account .

In one embodiment the second transaction includes a future purchase from the second party by the server computer of the interchange on behalf of the first party. The interchange may determine the future purchase based on what is purchased in the first transaction.

In one embodiment the interchange is configured to allow a user to fund the user s account with the server without having to go outside of the experience of the application e.g. game virtual reality audio and or visual entertainment provided by the server . For example the user may have an account with the server to pay for the user s activities on the server .

In one embodiment the account is a stored value account or a debit account . After the user pays the server the server increases an amount recorded in the account in terms of a currency a virtual currency points etc. The amount increased recorded in the account is proportional to the amount paid by the user.

The server may provide a premium service which is charged against the account . For example the server may provide an online game experience and may charge the account for certain actions and or the time period the user engages in a game. For example the server may allow the user to pay for virtual goods and or services offered in the website of the server . For example the server may charge the user for downloading music or video clips for viewing articles listening to audio streams watching video streams etc.

In one embodiment the user can use the interchange to add funds to or top up the account hosted on the server without having to go outside of the application provided by the server as illustrated in . Within the application provided by the server e.g. a game a user interface can be used to present advertisements to the user e.g. to purchase an item a subscription a service from the server and or to prompt the user to top up the account which can be used to pay for the purchases and or the activities of the user on the server .

For example in the application presents the user with an experience hosted on the server such as a game experience a virtual reality experience a communication experience etc. When the account falls below a threshold the interface as shown in is presented to alert the user that the account is running low and to provide the user with the option to top up the account . The user can select the yes link in the interface to request the interchange to top up the account or the no link to reject the option. Thus the user can complete the purchase to top up the account without having to leave the application . For example the user does not have to leave the application to go to the website of the interchange to complete the payment.

In one embodiment the user interface is presented via a popup window over the application or a layer of the application or as part of the application . In other embodiments the user interface can be presented as part of the application . For example one icon not shown in may be used to represent the account . When the account falls below a predetermined threshold the icon may be configured to alert the user e.g. via sound blinking animation a different color a level indicator etc. The icon can be selected by the user to view the account balance and or to request the interchange to top up the account .

In one embodiment the user interface works alongside the application to allow users to choose to be notified when the user is running low on the account and to offer the user the option to top up the account via the interchange . If the user accepts the offer through the user interface provided within the environment of the application the interchange charges the user via the phone number to obtain funds to top up the account .

In one embodiment after the user accepts the offer the interchange communicates with the mobile phone at the phone number to confirm the top up request as illustrated in .

In some embodiments the user is offered the option to repeat the billing to top up the account when the user is presented a message on the mobile phone to confirm a top up operation. In some embodiments after the initial communications with the mobile phone to confirm the repeated billing to top up the account the interchange may skip the requirement to confirm with the mobile phone for subsequent topping up transactions.

In some embodiments the user is offer the option to repeat the billing to top up the account in the future e.g. as illustrated in . For example the user may schedule repeated topping up operations based on a calendar e.g. to top up monthly or weekly or when needed e.g. when the amount in the account is lower below a threshold . For example the user may request repeated topping up operations based on a threshold. When the server determines that the account is running low with respect to the threshold the server may automatically request the interchange to repeat the billing to top up the account or may send the request after the server obtains confirmation from the user via the user interface .

In some embodiments the interchange stores the user preference for repeated topping up of the account and based on the user preference the interchange periodically communicates with the server to determine if the account needs additional funds. Alternatively based on the user preference the interchange may request the server to notify the interchange when the account is low.

For example in one embodiment if the user selects the option 2 in the interchange may schedule repeated topping up operations based on the balance level of the account . In one embodiment after the user selects the option 2 in the interchange stores the authorization of the user and does not require the user to further individually confirm via the mobile phone the future instances of the topping up of the account .

In some embodiments the message in may provide other options not shown in such as an option to confirm the current topping up transaction but not schedule repeated topping up transactions based on account level an option to confirm the current topping up transaction and schedule a future topping up transaction on a calendar an option to confirm the current topping up transaction and request the transaction to be repeated when the account balance is lower than a user specified threshold etc.

In some embodiments the funds are applied to increase the level of the account to a maximum level e.g. as specified by the user preference or by the limitation of the server . In some embodiment the funds are applied to increase the level of the account above a preferred level e.g. identified by the user according to a user preference . Thus the user does not have to specify the amount to be used for the current operation. The interchange calculates the amount based on the preferences and or the limitations. In some embodiments the interchange also presents the calculated amount in the message .

In some embodiments the user may also explicitly specify an amount for the current transaction in the reply to the message to increase the level of the account .

In one embodiment the user is offered the option to repeat the billing to top up the account in the future as an item service purchased from the server . For example in the selection box may include an option to repeat the payment when the account is low e.g. having an amount below a threshold . When the user purchases such an item the interchange communicates with the server to determine when the account is low. For example the interchange may arrange to check the balance of the account periodically or to request the server to report when the account is low. In other embodiments the server may record such a preference of the user and initiate repeated billing requests to the interchange on behalf of the user when the account is low.

Thus the user may schedule an automatic purchase based on a threshold on the server . In some embodiments the automatic purchase is to be confirmed on site in the application of the server . After the repeated instance of the purchase is confirmed on site on the server the interchange may skip the confirmation via the mobile phone . Instead a notification of the repeated instance of the purchase may be sent to the mobile phone . In some embodiments the notification is included in the premium message sent to the mobile phone for collecting the funds.

In the message includes an option 1 to confirm a one time transaction to top up the account . After the option 1 is selected the interchange continues to send confirmation messages to the mobile phone to request confirmation for future transactions to top up the account .

In the message includes an option 2 to request repeated topping up transactions when needed by the user. After the option 2 is selected and if the user subsequently indicates to the server the need to top up the account to initiate a transaction e.g. via the user interface presented in the environment of the application running on the server the interchange may skip the requirement for a confirmation communication via the mobile phone before carrying out the transaction initiated by the user. Thus the user does not have to provide additional inputs via the mobile phone to the interchange after the user communicates the need via the user terminal . To improve security the interchange may provide a notification message to the mobile phone without requiring a response.

In the message includes an option 3 to set up an option to automatically top up the account based on the level of the account . After the option 3 is selected the user does not have to explicitly provide input to indicate the need to top up the account . The interchange communicates with the server to automatically determine the need and perform future transactions to top up the account based on a threshold value and or periodically. Thus the interchange may rely upon the server to authenticate the user who is using the account and use a notification message to the mobile phone to allow the user to timely discover unauthorized uses.

In some embodiments there may be a difference between the amount of funds used to purchase an item and the amount of available funds collected via a set of premium messages. To dispose of the difference the user may set up a preference to top up the account on the server using the difference between the amount of funds used to purchase an item and the amount of available funds collected via a set of premium messages e.g. when the user makes a purchase on a different server . Thus funds are automatically added to the account on the server when the user makes purchases via the interchange on different servers .

The message may also include other options not shown in . For example the message may include an option to top up a different account using the difference between the available funds and the asking price. For example the message may include an option to keep the difference in the account hosted in the data storage facility of the interchange . For example the message may include an option to use other fund sources to pay the difference in price such as the account a credit card a debit card a bank account etc.

In one embodiment the interchange stores information about the accounts of the user with different servers after the user uses the interchange to add funds to the corresponding accounts . Based on the statistic of transactions related to adding funds to the corresponding accounts and or the current balance levels of the accounts the interchange may select one or more accounts to generate the option lists for the message .

For example the interchange may determine the most likely account that needs additional funds by comparing the ratios between the current balance level and the upper limit of the corresponding accounts and the account with the highest ratio may be presented as the first option. For example the interchange may sort the accounts to determine the priority for topping up based on the frequencies in which the user adds funds to the accounts .

In one embodiment the user may further request the interchange to budget up to a predetermined difference between the amount of funds used to purchase an item and the amount of available funds collected via a set of premium messages to increase the amount that can be added to the account .

For example in the message may include an option to collect an additional 0.80 to fund the account . Thus the available funds collected via the premium messages will be 1.60 of which 0.75 is to pay for the purchase from www.songs.com and the balance of 1.60 0.75 0.85 is to top up the account with www.games.com if the option 1 is selected .

In some embodiments the user may specify a suggested amount to top up the account . The interchange determines a combination of premium messages that can provide available funds closest to the sum of the suggested amount for topping up the account and the asking price of the purchase from www.songs.com.

In some embodiments the interchange generates a code to represent the difference between the price and the available funds. The code can be used for other transactions to reduce the amount of funds that need to be collected. Once the code is applied to a transaction the code is no longer valid. In some embodiments the code is limited to being applied using the mobile phone at the phone number . In other embodiments the code is transferrable and the user may provide the code to a different user e.g. as a gift .

In one embodiment when the user uses the interchange to add funds to the account via the phone number the interchange stores the account information to identify the account on the server . The account information is associated with the phone number in the data storage facility of the interchange . The interchange communicates with the mobile phone at the phone number for the confirmation of the request to add funds to the account and after the conformation the interchange sends premium messages to the mobile phone to collect funds for the account .

In one embodiment during the confirmation and or the request from the user terminal to add funds to the account the interchange obtains the authorization to subsequently add funds to the account when needed.

Based on the authorization the interchange may communicate with the server to determine the balance level of the account and identify the need to add funds to the account . For example using the account information the interchange may periodically check with the server to determine if the account needs additional funds. Alternatively the interchange may register with the server to cause the server to request additional funds for the account when the balance level of the account is below a threshold. In some embodiments the server uses an in application user interface e.g. to obtain user consent to add funds to the account .

In one embodiment based on the authorization the interchange can skip the confirmation with the mobile phone when there is a need to add funds to the account . The interchange may notify the user of the topping up operation via the premium message .

Further in based on the authorization the interchange may automatically apply the balance of a purchase transaction towards the account . For example when the user uses the user terminal to make a purchase request on a different server the server sends or forwards the charge request to the interchange . After the confirmation with the mobile phone for the purchase request the interchange determines a combination of premium messages to collect funds for the purchase. When the collected funds exceed the payment for the purchase the interchange applies the difference between the collected funds and the payment towards the account . Thus the account can also be topped up in response to available funds.

In after the interchange and or the server determines that the amount in an account of a user with a server is lower than a threshold the interchange and or the server interacts with the user to authorize topping up the account without leaving the experience environment currently provided by the server . For example in some embodiments the interchange presents the user interface as illustrated in to obtain the user s authorization without leaving the application provided by the server . In other embodiments the server presents the interface to obtain the user s authorization on behalf of the interchange . In some embodiments the interchange obtains the authorization via a message to the mobile phone at the phone number of the user as illustrated in .

In the interchange transmits premium messages to the mobile phone at the phone number of the user to collect funds to top up the account .

In in response to receiving a request to fund an account using funds associated with a phone number the interchange communicates with a mobile phone at the phone number to confirm the request. The interchange obtains an authorization to skip mobile phone confirmation for subsequent requests to fund the account via the phone number and then adds funds associated with the phone number to the account.

After obtaining the authorization if it is determined that the account needs additional funds the user is prompted to fund the account while the user is in an experience with the server . If the user agrees the interchange adds funds associated with the phone number to the account without mobile phone confirmation.

In one embodiment the user is prompted and then accepts an option without leaving an experience that is provided by the server prior to the prompting. In one embodiment the user accepts the option to cause the server to fund the account without providing further input related to the funding of the account .

In one embodiment the user is authenticated by the server for an online service provided by the server such as game virtual reality etc.

In one embodiment the interchange receives a request from the server when the server determines that an amount in the account is lower than a threshold and then the interchange tops up the amount in the account to a predetermined level such as an upper limit for the account .

In one embodiment the interchange stores and associates the phone number with account information that identifies the account in a data storage facility coupled with interchange if the request is confirmed via the mobile phone .

In one embodiment the server communicates an indication of the account to the interchange for a request to top up the account and the interchange determines the phone number based on data stored in the data storage facility coupled with the interchange . In other embodiments the server identifies and communicates the phone number to the interchange for the request to top up the account .

In one embodiment in response to a request to pay a first amount to a payee the interchange transmits one or more premium messages to a mobile phone at the phone number to collect a second amount via a telecommunication carrier of the mobile phone . The interchange pays the payee the first amount from the second amount of funds collected via the one or more premium messages and automatically funds the account using the difference between the first amount and the second amount e.g. based on a preference of the user .

In one embodiment the interchange may transmit to a mobile phone at the phone number one or more premium messages to collect the funds via a telecommunication carrier of the mobile phone or transmit to a mobile phone at the phone number a message to instruct the user to send one or more premium messages to the interchange to collect the funds via a telecommunication carrier of the mobile phone .

In other embodiments the interchange determines account information based on data stored in a data storage facility coupled to the interchange where the data associates a plurality of phone numbers with respective information of financial accounts of respective users. The interchange uses the account information such as a credit card number a debit card number or a bank account number to collect the funds.

In one embodiment the interchange is configured to provide streamlined simplified user experiences for repeated transactions. The request for the repeated purchase can be initiated from a mobile device an online computer or a point of sale terminal and the interchange can use various funding sources associated with a phone number to process the payment for the repeated purchase such as premium messages mobile billing credit debit card bank accounts accessed via Automated Clearing House ACH etc. In one embodiment the interchange is configured to provide fast and secure processing of repeated purchases for customers who may purchase the same items multiple times.

In one embodiment after the interchange completes a payment transaction for a user of a phone number the interchange listens for predetermined types of events that trigger the automated process to repeat a prior purchase such as the purchase of the item s associated with the most recent payment processed by the interchange for the phone number . Example events that can trigger a repeated purchase include but are not limited to a predetermined keyword transmitted to a short code of the interchange via SMS a request to repeat a purchase as a response to a confirmation of a successful payment processed for a prior purchase a request to repeat a purchase in a website of the interchange presenting a prior payment transaction e.g. as in a presentation of the transaction history of the phone number and a repeated purchase request from a merchant on behalf of the user of the phone number .

For example in one embodiment after a user of the phone number initiates a purchase transaction for a product or service offered by a merchant the interchange processes the payment for the purchase transaction using funds associated with the phone number . After the interchange completes the payment transaction successfully the interchange provides a message to the user of the phone number so that the user can repeat the same purchase e.g. purchase from the same merchant an item that is the same as the product previously purchased by sending a message containing a keyword e.g. R to a short code of the interchange via SMS.

In one embodiment a short code is a special telephone number significantly shorter than full telephone numbers that can be used to address SMS and MMS messages.

Thus after the interchange receives an SMS message containing the keyword e.g. R sent from the user of the phone number to the short code of the interchange the interchange communicates with the merchant to repeat the purchase on behalf of the user of the phone number and processes a payment for the repeated purchase using funds associated with the phone number . Thus the user does not have to repeat the order with the merchant and the user does not have to separately confirm the payment using the mobile phone at the phone number . After the repeated purchase and payment are processed successfully the interchange informs the user of the successful purchase and the user is to receive the purchased product or service from the merchant.

In one embodiment the SMS message containing the keyword e.g. R does not explicitly identify the prior purchase. The interchange is to repeat the purchase associated with the most recent payment transaction processed by the interchange using funds associated with the phone number .

In one embodiment the SMS message containing the keyword e.g. R also includes an identifier of a prior successful payment transaction and the interchange is configured to initiate a new purchase in accordance with the purchase associated with the prior successful payment transaction on behalf of the user of the phone number .

In one embodiment when the user requests or confirms a prior payment transaction the user is provided with the option to authorize the merchant to automate repeated purchases on behalf of the user. If the user selects the option the interchange allows the merchant to initiate a new transaction e.g. to repeat the purchase without the user directly instructing the interchange to make the payment for the new transaction. For example in one embodiment after the user selects the option the interchange is to inform the merchant of the user authorization to repeat the purchase and if the merchant submits a payment request directly to the interchange without going through the user the interchange is to process the payment request in accordance with the user authorization. If the merchant submits a payment request directly to the interchange without the prior user authorization the interchange is configured to reject the payment request.

In one embodiment after the merchant submits a payment request directly to the interchange and the user has previously authorized the merchant to automate the repeated purchases the interchange is configured to transmit a confirmation message to the mobile phone at the phone number to request a user to confirm the new payment transaction. In one embodiment the confirmation message includes the purchase details specified in the transaction record for the previous purchase that is currently being repeated. In another embodiment the confirmation message includes the purchase details specified in the current payment request. In some embodiments the authorization allows the merchant to initiate a payment request on behalf of the user for a purchase with a modification based on the prior purchase or a new purchase independent from the prior purchases.

In one embodiment the authorization for the merchant to initiate the payment request on behalf of the user allows the merchant to automate certain order placing operations and or checkout operations. For example the merchant may initiate the payment request to top up the user account for a game when the balance of the user account fails below a threshold. For example the merchant may schedule automated periodic purchases for the user. For example the merchant may offer purchase deals e.g. with discounts or incentives to the user.

In one embodiment when the payment request is initiated by the merchant on behalf of the user the interchange is configured to check whether the user has previously provided authorization for such payment requests. If the user has not yet provided such authorization the payment request is rejected otherwise the interchange is configured to communicate with the mobile phone at the phone number of the user to confirm the payment request. The authorization feature allows the interchange to block offers from the merchant without prior consent from the user which can reduce or eliminate unwanted messages that might be considered spam messages. The confirmation message transmitted to the mobile phone of the phone number of the user allows the user to decide whether or not to accept the merchant offers.

In one embodiment the transaction records identify the respective merchants to which the payments were made. In one embodiment the transaction records further include information about purchase details such as descriptions of items purchased the prices and the units purchased etc. In one embodiment the transaction records include transaction identifiers that can be used by merchants to look up the respective purchases made by the user.

In the server of the merchant is configured to receive a purchase request from the user terminal of the user of the mobile phone . When the user decides to make the payment for the purchase using the interchange the user terminal transmits the charge request to the interchange e.g. using a web browser as illustrated in . The charge request provides the phone number to identify funding sources for the charge request . The charge request also identifies the server as the payee for the charge request .

In response to the charge request received from the user terminal the interchange communicates with the mobile phone for a confirmation of the charge request . After the charge request is confirmed the interchange sends premium messages to the mobile phone to collect funds for the charge request . After the premium messages are successfully delivered to the mobile phone e.g. as indicated by delivery notifications received from the controller of the mobile phone the interchange stores a transaction record to record information about successful payment transaction associated with the charge request and provide a payment notification to the server to indicate the success of the payment transaction.

In one embodiment after the successful payment transaction is recorded in the data storage facility the user can use the mobile phone to make a request to repeat the purchase without having to again send the purchase request and the charge request .

In one embodiment when the mobile phone transmits to the interchange a message to request the system to repeat a purchase the interchange is configured to look up the last transaction record associated with the phone number to identify the purchase to be repeated. In one embodiment the interchange is to contact the server to initiate the purchase request on behalf of the user in accordance with the last transaction record. If the server indicates that the prior purchase can be repeated the interchange is configured to send premium messages to the mobile phone to collect funds for the repeated purchase.

In some embodiments the purchases performed on the server are generally repeatable with few exceptions and the interchange is configured to collect funds for the repeated purchase prior to informing the server of the repeated purchase via the payment notification for the new payment.

In one embodiment after a successful payment transaction is recorded in the data storage facility the interchange is configured to transmit a message to the mobile phone announcing the success of the payment transaction. In one embodiment the announcement includes an instruction for placing a repeated order via the interchange .

For example in one embodiment the announcement message includes a link to the interchange which when selected on the mobile phone causes the mobile phone to transmit a message to the interchange to request the interchange to place a repeated purchase request on behalf of the user. In one embodiment the link includes an identifier of the prior transaction and thus the purchase to be repeated does not have to be the purchase associated with the most recent transaction record .

For example in one embodiment the announcement message includes an instruction for the user to request the interchange to place a repeated order on behalf of the user via replying to the announcement message or via sending a message to a short code with an identifier of the successful payment transaction. When the identifier of the successful payment transaction is absent in the request to repeat the interchange is to repeat the purchase associated with the latest transaction record .

In one embodiment the interchange provides a web portal that authenticates the user of the phone number prior to allowing the user to view the transaction records associated with the phone number . For a transaction record displayed to the user via the web portal an option is provided to allow the user to request the interchange to repeat the purchase request on behalf of the user. Thus the user experience to order what has been processed previously is greatly simplified.

In some embodiments the merchants may also schedule or suggest purchases on behalf of the user of the phone number . When the merchants initiate the purchases on behalf of the user the interchange is to communicate with the mobile phone to request confirmation for the payment request. To avoid inadvertently spamming the mobile phone the interchange requests the authorization from the user to allow such merchant initiated requests.

In one embodiment the user interface includes an option to allow the merchant to initiate the repeat of the purchase on behalf the user. When the option is selected by the user the indication of authorization to repeat is stored in the data storage facility for the transaction record .

After the payment transaction associated with the transaction record is completed successfully via the confirmation and sending premium messages to the mobile phone the interchange provides a payment notification to the server . In one embodiment the payment notification is configured to indicate whether the merchant is authorized to repeat the transaction on behalf of the user in accordance with the authorization to repeat .

When the server transmits a charge request for a repeated purchase the interchange is to determine whether the corresponding transaction record is associated with the authorization to repeat and if not the charge request is rejected.

If the charge request from the server for a repeated purchase has an authorization to repeat associated with the corresponding transaction record the interchange is configured to communicate with the mobile phone for the confirmation of the new payment for the repeated purchase.

In the interchange is configured to send premium messages to the mobile phone addressed using the phone number to collect funds for the respective payments. Alternatively or in combination the funds collected in the account can be debited for the payment. In some embodiments the account information e.g. credit accounts debit accounts payment intermediary accounts associated with the phone number in the data storage facility can be to collect funds for the respective payments and or the account .

In one embodiment the authorization to repeat is associated with the transaction record to allow the merchant to repeat the specific purchase identified by the transaction record but not other purchases.

In one embodiment the authorization to repeat is associated with the merchant ID to allow the server of the merchant to initiate a charge request on behalf of the user. The merchant initiated charge request is not necessarily for the repeat of a purchase identical to the prior purchase. The merchant initiated charge request may be associated with a purchase with modifications made based on the prior purchase. In some embodiments the merchant initiated charge request is for a new purchase independent from the prior purchase during which the authorization to repeat was received. In one embodiment the authorization to repeat allows the server of the merchant to initiate a new purchase such as a new product a discount for the new purchase a suggested or recommended purchase etc and the process to obtain the confirmation via the communication with the mobile phone allows the user to decide whether or not to accept the new purchase offer.

In the user interface further includes options . . . to provide the authorization to repeat . For example if the user selects the option the interchange is configured in one embodiment to notify the server of the merchant that the user has authorized the merchant to initiate new purchases. Thus when the merchant determines an opportunity to recommend a new purchase for the user the server can directly initiate a charge request without having to first receive an explicit purchase request from the user for the new purchase. Since the user has authorized the merchant to initiate a new purchase e.g. via the selection of the option in the user interface the interchange is configured to process the charge request including communicating with the mobile phone at the phone number for the confirmation of the charge request .

In if the user selects the option the interchange is configured in one embodiment to notify the server of the merchant that the user has authorized the merchant to repeat the particular purchase for which the current payment transaction is being processed via the user interface and store the authorization to repeat in association with the current payment transaction. The authorization is limited to the repeat of the particular purchase and the authorization to repeat does not apply if the server of the merchant initiates a different purchase. For example the merchant initiated charge request includes in one embodiment details about the purchase and when the details of the purchase do not match with the transaction record of the current purchase during the processing of which the option is selected the authorization to repeat does not apply. In one embodiment when no authorization data matches a merchant initiated charge request the interchange denies the charge request .

In one embodiment the user interface further presents other options such as an option to allow the merchant to repeat any prior purchases for which payments have been successfully processed via the interchange using funds associated with the phone number an option to withdraw prior authorizations to allow the merchant to initiate a purchase etc.

In one embodiment the interchange is configured to obtain the authorization to repeat via the communication with the mobile phone for the confirmation of the payment transaction identified by the transaction record . For example in response to a message from the interchange the user may use the mobile phone to transmit a message to provide the confirmation of the charge request associated with the transaction record and an indication of the authorization to repeat the purchase associated with the transaction record .

In one embodiment the interchange provides a web portal or a mobile application server that allows the user to use the user terminal or the mobile phone to view the transaction record and selectively provide the authorization to repeat for the transaction record or for the merchant represented by merchant ID .

In one embodiment after the premium messages have been successfully sent to the mobile phone to collect funds for the charge request associated with the transaction record the interchange is configured to send a message to the mobile phone indicating the success status of the payment transaction provide instructions on how to request the interchange to request a repeat of the purchase associated with the transaction record on behalf of the user and provide instructions on how to authorize the merchant to repeat the purchase on behalf of the user. For example in one embodiment the success notification message may instruct the user to reply with a first keyword to allow the merchant to initiate the charge request for a repeat of the purchase associated with the transaction record or reply with a second keyword to allow the interchange to communicate with the merchant to repeat the purchase associated with the transaction record .

In one embodiment the phone number which the interchange used to transmit the confirmation message to the user is used to identify the purchase. Different numbers are used to represent different purchases of the user. In one embodiment a predetermined number of phone numbers of the interchange are used to represent the respective number of most recent purchases of the user. Thus the user can reply to the predetermined number of most recent confirmation messages e.g. to repeat the respective orders by simply replying to the respective confirmation message without having to input additional information to identify the transactions.

In one embodiment the interchange uses only one phone number to receive the request to repeat and the purchase associated with the most recent transaction record associated with the phone number is the purchase to be repeated.

In one embodiment the confirmation message further includes an identifier of the transaction record that can be used in a request to repeat to explicitly identify the purchase.

In one embodiment the mobile phone is configured to display a list of transaction records associated with the phone number e.g. via a mobile application via an SMS portal that receives SMS queries and provides SMS replies and the user is allowed to select a record from the list to request the interchange to repeat the purchase on behalf of the user using the funds associated with the phone number .

After the transaction record of the successful payment transaction is stored in the data storage facility of the interchange the interchange may receive a message from the merchant for a new payment e.g. . In response the interchange is configured to determine whether an optional authorization has been previously received for the new payment request received from the merchant if so the interchange is configured to communicate with the mobile phone at the phone number to confirm the new payment and then process the new payment.

In one embodiment if no applicable authorization has been previously received for the request for a new payment e.g. the interchange is configured to communicate with the server to request the server to transmit the request via a user terminal .

In one embodiment to prevent inadvertently spamming the user a user is provided with an option to be authenticated on the user terminal e.g. via a password a PIN a browser cookie a hardware network identification number prior to the interchange initiating the communication with the mobile phone for the confirmation of a charge request.

For example after the phone number is used in a successful payment transaction the interchange may provide a message to the mobile phone to indicate that the user wants to limit the interchange initiated communication with the mobile phone at the phone number via a password a PIN a cookie identifier associated with the user terminal or a hardware network identification number such as a Media Access Control MAC address or Internet Protocol IP address.

For example in response to the success notification message the user may transmit a user selected password or PIN to the interchange . The user selected password or PIN is stored in the data storage facility with the phone number . To subsequently initiate a successful charge request against the phone number via the user terminal the interchange is to authenticate the user of the user terminal via the password or PIN associated with the phone number .

In one embodiment the interchange is configured to place a browser cookie in the user terminal and store the browser cookie identifier and or the hardware network identification number of the user terminal in association with the phone number after the user terminal has been authenticated for using the phone number . Subsequently charge requests e.g. are authenticated via the browser cookie identifier and or the hardware network identification number stored in the data storage facility in association with the phone number .

In one embodiment to authenticate a user terminal the interchange is configured to transmit a one time password to the user terminal and requests the user of the user terminal to transmit the one time password from the mobile phone .

In after the successful payment transaction the interchange may receive a message from the mobile phone having the phone number to repeat a transaction. In response the interchange is configured in one embodiment to identify the transaction process the payment for the repeated transaction and notify the merchant of the payment for the repeated transaction. Thus the interchange not only processes the payment for the repeated transaction but also places the order for the repeated purchase with the merchant on behalf of the user.

In one embodiment a most recent payment transaction associated with the phone number is identified as the previous payment transaction and the interchange communicates with the server of the merchant to repeat the purchase associated with the previous payment transaction.

In one embodiment the previous payment transaction is identified based on the message such as a phone number at which the interchange receives the message or an identifier of the previous payment transaction previously provided by the interchange to the mobile phone e.g. in a message to request a prior payment or a message to notify the user of the successful processing of the prior payment .

For example in one embodiment the message received is a reply to a previous message transmitted from the interchange to the mobile phone in connection with the previous payment transaction identified by the transaction record and the transaction record is identified based at least in part on the phone number via which the previous message was sent. In one embodiment the message received from the mobile phone is received via a short message service SMS .

In one embodiment the previous message transmitted from the interchange to the mobile phone having the phone number includes a code to identify the previous payment transaction and the message received from the mobile phone to repeat the transaction is configured to include the code. For example the code may be embedded in a link to the interchange which when selected causes a web browser running on the mobile phone to transmit a web request to the interchange to make the request to repeat. Alternatively the user may type the code in a text message transmitted to the interchange to identify the previous transaction.

In one embodiment when the interchange receives a charge request for the previous purchase the interchange is to communicate with the mobile phone at the phone number to request confirmation of a charge request for the previous payment transaction. After the previous payment transaction is processed successfully the payment to repeat the purchase can be processed without the interchange communicating with the mobile phone to request confirmation .

In one embodiment a computing apparatus system to facilitate repeated purchases includes a data storage facility configured to store payment transaction records e.g. associated with phone numbers e.g. . The payment transaction records include at least one record for a successful prior payment transaction where the record includes data indicating a user selection of an option to authorize a respective merchant involved in the prior payment transaction to request payments on behalf of a user of a phone number associated with the record .

In one embodiment the computing apparatus system further includes an interchange coupled with the data storage facility . The interchange includes a common format processor and a plurality of converters to interface with a plurality of controllers where the converters are configured to communicate with the controllers in different formats and to communicate with the common format processor in a common format.

In one embodiment in response to a message from the mobile phone having the phone number the common format processor is configured to identify the record of the prior payment transaction associated with the phone number of the mobile phone communicate with the merchant to repeat a purchase identified according to the prior payment transaction and transmit via one of the converters a plurality of premium messages to the mobile phone to collect funds for a payment to repeat the purchase.

In one embodiment in response to a payment request from the merchant the common format processor is configured to determine whether to accept or reject the merchant initiated payment request based at least in part on the data indicating the user selection of the option for authorization to repeat.

In one embodiment each of the interchange the data storage facility the controllers the mobile phones the user terminals and the servers can be implemented as a data processing system with fewer or more components as illustrated in .

In the data processing system includes an inter connect e.g. bus and system core logic which interconnects a microprocessor s and memory . The microprocessor is coupled to cache memory in the example of .

The inter connect interconnects the microprocessor s and the memory together and also interconnects them to a display controller display device and to peripheral devices such as input output I O devices through an input output controller s .

Typical I O devices include mice keyboards modems network interfaces printers scanners video cameras and other devices which are well known in the art. In some embodiments when the data processing system is a server system some of the I O devices such as printer scanner mice and or keyboards are optional.

The inter connect may include one or more buses connected to one another through various bridges controllers and or adapters. In one embodiment the I O controller includes a USB Universal Serial Bus adapter for controlling USB peripherals and or an IEEE 1394 bus adapter for controlling IEEE 1394 peripherals.

The memory may include ROM Read Only Memory volatile RAM Random Access Memory and non volatile memory such as hard drive flash memory etc.

Volatile RAM is typically implemented as dynamic RAM DRAM which requires power continually in order to refresh or maintain the data in the memory. Non volatile memory is typically a magnetic hard drive a magnetic optical drive an optical drive e.g. a DVD RAM or other type of memory system which maintains data even after power is removed from the system. The non volatile memory may also be a random access memory.

The non volatile memory can be a local device coupled directly to the rest of the components in the data processing system. A non volatile memory that is remote from the system such as a network storage device coupled to the data processing system through a network interface such as a modem or Ethernet interface can also be used.

In this description various functions and operations may be described as being performed by or caused by software code to simplify description. However those skilled in the art will recognize that what is meant by such expressions is that the functions result from execution of the code instructions by a processor such as a microprocessor. Alternatively or in combination the functions and operations can be implemented using special purpose circuitry with or without software instructions such as using Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC or Field Programmable Gate Array FPGA . Embodiments can be implemented using hardwired circuitry without software instructions or in combination with software instructions. Thus the techniques are limited neither to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software nor to any particular source for the instructions executed by the data processing system.

While some embodiments can be implemented in fully functioning computers and computer systems various embodiments are capable of being distributed as a computing product in a variety of forms and are capable of being applied regardless of the particular type of machine or computer readable media used to actually effect the distribution.

At least some aspects disclosed can be embodied at least in part in software. That is the techniques may be carried out in a computer system or other data processing system in response to its processor such as a microprocessor executing sequences of instructions contained in a memory such as ROM volatile RAM non volatile memory cache or a remote storage device.

Routines executed to implement the embodiments may be implemented as part of an operating system or a specific application component program object module or sequence of instructions referred to as computer programs. The computer programs typically include one or more instructions set at various times in various memory and storage devices in a computer and that when read and executed by one or more processors in a computer cause the computer to perform operations necessary to execute elements involving the various aspects.

A machine readable medium can be used to store software and data which when executed by a data processing system causes the system to perform various methods. The executable software and data may be stored in various places including for example ROM volatile RAM non volatile memory and or cache. Portions of this software and or data may be stored in any one of these storage devices. Further the data and instructions can be obtained from centralized servers or peer to peer networks. Different portions of the data and instructions can be obtained from different centralized servers and or peer to peer networks at different times and in different communication sessions or in a same communication session. The data and instructions can be obtained in entirety prior to the execution of the applications. Alternatively portions of the data and instructions can be obtained dynamically just in time when needed for execution. Thus it is not required that the data and instructions be on a machine readable medium in entirety at a particular instance of time.

Examples of tangible computer readable storage media include but are not limited to recordable and non recordable type media such as volatile and non volatile memory devices read only memory ROM random access memory RAM flash memory devices floppy and other removable disks magnetic disk storage media optical storage media e.g. Compact Disk Read Only Memory CD ROMS Digital Versatile Disks DVDs etc. among others. The computer readable media may store the instructions.

The instructions may also be embodied in digital and analog communication links for electrical optical acoustical or other forms of propagated signals such as carrier waves infrared signals digital signals etc. However propagated signals such as carrier waves infrared signals digital signals etc. are not tangible machine readable medium and are not configured to store instructions.

In general a tangible machine readable medium includes any apparatus that provides i.e. stores and or transmits information in a form accessible by a machine e.g. a computer network device personal digital assistant manufacturing tool any device with a set of one or more processors etc. .

In various embodiments hardwired circuitry may be used in combination with software instructions to implement the techniques. Thus the techniques are neither limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software nor to any particular source for the instructions executed by the data processing system.

Although some of the drawings illustrate a number of operations in a particular order operations which are not order dependent may be reordered and other operations may be combined or broken out. While some reordering or other groupings are specifically mentioned others will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art and so do not present an exhaustive list of alternatives. Moreover it should be recognized that the stages could be implemented in hardware firmware software or any combination thereof.

In the foregoing specification the disclosure has been described with reference to specific exemplary embodiments thereof. It will be evident that various modifications may be made thereto without departing from the broader spirit and scope as set forth in the following claims. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative sense rather than a restrictive sense.

