---

title: Systems and method for media transfer
abstract: Components of a mobile traffic network and components in communication with the network cooperate to confirm whether a mobile station user or account owner has previously purchased media content for a particular mobile station. Media content that has already been purchased by a user can be downloaded by that user to a new mobile station after the initial mobile station is lost, damaged, or upgraded.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08918094&OS=08918094&RS=08918094
owner: Cellco Partnership
number: 08918094
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130822
---
This application is a continuation and claims the benefit of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 763 739 Filed Apr. 20 2010 entitled SYSTEMS AND METHOD FOR MEDIA TRANSFER now U.S. Pat. No. 8 521 150 the disclosure of which is entirely incorporated herein by reference.

As mobile station processing power continues to increase along with the speed at which media content e.g. software applications and or media such as ringtones music video etc. can be downloaded over the air mobile network providers are offering more and more media content for use by the end users of mobile stations. As the catalogs of media content continue to grow it becomes increasingly common for end users to purchase media content that may be of interest to them and to download such media content to a particular mobile station.

Often a user spends significant time and money purchasing mobile device media content for a particular mobile station. In the event that the mobile station is lost or damaged or the user desires to upgrade or replace the mobile station the user typically has to remember which media content was previously purchased for the initial device and then repurchase the media content for the replacement or upgraded device. Thus the user may not accurately remember all media content that was on the initial mobile station and may be forced to pay twice for the media content that is remembered.

In the following detailed description numerous specific details are set forth by way of examples in order to provide a thorough understanding of the relevant teachings. However it should be apparent to those skilled in the art that the present teachings may be practiced without such details. In other instances well known methods procedures components and or circuitry have been described at a relatively high level without detail in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring aspects of the present teachings.

Functionality systems and methods for transferring mobile station media to a mobile station are shown and described. By use of such the end user of a mobile station e.g. a cell phone customer can transfer already purchased media content from one mobile station to another mobile station such as a replacement e.g. a certified like new replacement CLNR or upgraded mobile station. Thus the end user can replace at no cost media content that has already been purchased for a particular mobile station e.g. one that has been lost damaged or upgraded.

Reference now is made in detail to the examples illustrated in the accompanying drawings and discussed below. illustrates a mobile communication network as may be operated by a carrier or service provider to provide a wide range of mobile communication services and ancillary services or features to its subscriber customers and associated mobile station MS users. The elements collectively indicated by the reference numeral generally are elements of the network and are operated by or on behalf of the carrier although the mobile stations may be sold to and owned by the carrier s customers. The mobile communication network provides communications between mobile stations as well as communications for the mobile stations with networks and stations not shown outside the mobile communication network .

The wireless mobile communication network might be implemented as a network conforming to the code division multiple access CDMA IS 95 standard the 3rd Generation Partnership Project 2 3GPP2 wireless IP network standard or the Evolution Data Optimized EVDO standard the Global System for Mobile GSM communication standard a time division multiple access TDMA standard or other standards used for public mobile wireless communications. The mobile stations may be capable of conventional voice telephone communications and data communications.

For purposes of later discussion several mobile stations appear in the drawing to represent examples of the mobile stations that may receive various services via the mobile communication network . For example the mobile stations can receive and execute applications or other media content written in various programming languages.

Mobile stations can take the form of portable handsets smart phones or personal digital assistants although they may be implemented in other form factors The media content can be configured to execute on many different types of mobile stations . For example a mobile station application can be written to execute on a binary runtime environment for mobile BREW based mobile station. In further instances a mobile station application can be written to execute on a Windows Mobile based mobile station Android I Phone Java Mobile or RIM based mobile station such as a BlackBerry or the like. These types of devices can employ a multi tasking operating system.

The mobile station allows the end user to select the media content for download to the mobile station. For example the end user can receive a messaging service message e.g. a SMS message from various network elements or components in communication with the mobile communications network cooperate to transmit and download desired media content for use on the mobile station s .

The mobile communication network can be implemented by a number of interconnected networks. Hence the overall network may include a number of radio access networks RANs as well as regional ground networks interconnecting a number of RANs and a wide area network WAN interconnecting the regional ground networks to core network elements. A regional portion of the network such as that serving mobile stations can include one or more RANs and a regional circuit and or packet switched network and associated signaling network facilities.

Physical elements of a RAN operated by one of the mobile service providers or carriers include a number of base stations represented in the example by the base stations BSs . Although not separately shown such a base station can include a base transceiver system BTS which can communicate via an antennae system at the site of base station and over the airlink with one or more of the mobile stations when the mobile stations are within range. Each base station can include a BTS coupled to several antennae mounted on a radio tower within a coverage area often referred to as a cell. The BTS is the part of the radio network that sends and receives RF signals to from the mobile stations that are served by the base station .

The radio access networks can also include a traffic network represented generally by the cloud at which carries the user communications and data for the mobile stations between the base stations and other elements with or through which the mobile stations communicate. In some examples the mobile traffic network includes network elements that support mobile station media content transfer services such as mobile switching centers MSCs signal transfer points STP and an application server App. Server . The network can also include other elements that support functionality other than media content transfer services such as messaging service messages and voice communications. Examples of other network elements that may be used in support of messaging service message communications include but are not limited to message centers MCs home location registries HLRs simple messaging service point to point SMPP gateway and other network elements such as wireless internet gateways WIGs and visitor location registers VLRs not shown . Other individual elements such as switches and or routers forming the traffic network are omitted here form simplicity. It will be understood that the various network elements can communicate with each other and other aspects of the mobile communications network and other networks e.g. the public switched telephone network PSTN and the Internet either directly or indirectly.

The mobile switching center MSC is responsible for managing communications between the mobile station and the other elements of the network . In addition the MSC is responsible for handling voice calls and messaging service message requests as well as other services such as conference calls FAX and circuit switched data messaging service communications Internet access etc. . The MSC sets up and releases the end to end connection or session and handles mobility and hand over requirements during the call. The MSC also routes messaging service messages to from the mobile stations typically from to an appropriate MC . The MSC is sometimes referred to as a switch . The MSC manages the cell sites the voice trunks voicemail and SS7 links.

The message center MC in some examples allows messaging service messages to be exchanged between mobile telephones and other networks. For SMS messaging for example the MC receives packet communications containing text messages from originating mobile stations and forwards the messages via the signaling resources and the signaling channels to the appropriate destination mobile stations. The MC may receive messages from external devices for similar delivery to mobile stations and the MC may receive similar messages from the mobile devices and forward them to servers or terminal devices in either case via an Internet Protocol IP packet data network.

In some examples the MC can also be considered or include functionality that may be considered that of a Short Messaging Service Message Center SMSC or a Message Register MR . Wireless carriers developed the short message service SMS to transmit text messages for display on the mobile stations. In many existing network architectures the SMS traffic uses the signaling portion of the network to carry message traffic between a Short Message Service Center SMSC and the mobile stations. The SMSC supports mobile station to mobile station delivery of text messages. However the SMSC also supports communication of messages between the mobile stations and devices coupled to other networks. For example the SMSC may receive incoming IP message packets from the Internet for delivery via the network one of the base stations and a signaling channel over the air link to a destination mobile station. For this later type of SMS related communications the network also includes one or more Short Message Peer to Peer SMPP protocol gateways .

In other examples the MC can include functionality related to the Enhanced Messaging Service EMS or Multimedia Messaging service MMS . An EMS message can have special text formatting e.g. such as bold or italic animations pictures icons sound effects and special ring tones. MMS messages support the sending and receiving of multimedia messages e.g. images audio video and their combinations to or from MMS enabled mobile stations. In some examples the MC can be considered in whole or in part a multimedia messaging service center MMSC .

Although a single MC is shown a network can have many geographically dispersed MCs . The MCs can include destination routing tables DRTs . In essence the DRTs are databases within the MCs . A DRT contains a list of the MDNs which are associated with the various MCs . For example a first MDN is associated with a MC in Minn. while a second MDN is associated with a MC in Va. The DRTs are used to determine which MC should attempt to deliver an incoming messaging service message to the destination MDN. For example if a user associated with the MC in Minn. sends a SMS to a user associated with the MC in Va. the Minn. MC sends the SMS to the Va. MC for delivery to the destination MDN. The communication among the MCs occurs using know protocols such SMPP and the like.

The HLR in some examples stores a subscriber profile for each of the wireless subscribers and their associated mobile stations and . The HLR may reside in an MSC or in a centralized service control point that communicates with the MSC s via an out of band signaling system such as an SS network. The HLR stores for each mobile subscriber the subscriber s mobile directory number MDN the mobile identification number MIN and information specifying the wireless services subscribed to by the mobile subscriber such as numeric paging or text based paging data communication services etc. Of course the HLR can also be a stand alone device. The HLR also tracks the current point of attachment of the mobile station to the network e.g. the identification of the MSC with which the mobile station is currently registered to receive service.

The visitor location register VLR not shown is in some examples a temporary database of the mobile stations that have roamed into the particular area which it serves. The VLRs for a region often are implemented in or in association with a MSC . Each base station in the network is served by a single VLR hence a subscriber cannot be present in more than one VLR at a time. The data stored in the VLR has either been received from the HLR or collected from the mobile station.

The SMPP gateway provides functionality to transport messaging service messages to other mobile communication networks and also receive messaging service messages from other networks. The SMPP gateway supports communications using the SMPP protocol. SMPP gateways are Short Message Peer to Peer SMPP gateways used to connect the wireless communication network such as an Internal Protocol IP network on the left of the SMPP Gateway in to another network such as a public Internet network on the right of the SMPP Gateway in . The SMPP Gateway allows the MC to receive and send messages in IP packet format. The SMPP Gateway is an entity within the wireless network that acts as an intermediary between the wireless service provider network and other networks. For example the SMPP Gateway converts messages in protocol s used by other applications and devices e.g. Extensible Markup Language XML Hypertext Mail Protocol HTMP etc. to and from the SMPP protocol. The SMPP messages ride on IP transport e.g. between the SMPP Gateway and the MC .

In addition the traffic network portion of the mobile communications network connects to a private data network . The private data network connects to the traffic network portion via a gateway not shown . The gateway can provide protocol conversions between the protocols used by the traffic network and the protocols used by the private data network .

The private data network can be in communication with various auxiliary services servers e.g. such as those providing additional services to the users of the network and or to operations support personnel of the service provider or carrier that operates the network . For example the carrier can also offer its subscribers on line access to a variety of functions related to the subscribers accounts such as review of billing statements and usage data on line payment subscription changes password control or the like. For that purpose the carrier can operate a customer account web server offering a MyAccount type subscriber interface via the Internet e.g. a My Verizon page for a user having a Verizon Wireless account. Hence a user s terminal such as PC may be used to access on line information about a subscriber s account which the mobile carrier makes available via the carrier s MyAccount web site accessible through the Internet .

In addition a group provisioning manager device GPMD a zone provisioning device ZPD and a service creation manager device SCMD can be provided in communication with the private data network media content transfer functions e.g. downloading of media content. The GPMD can also be referred to as a group provisioning manager network device. For discussion purposes each of the GPMD ZPD and SCMD can be a stand alone computing device such as a server. The functionality described below with respect to each of the GPMD ZPD and SCMD can however be provided by one or multiple different computing devices. In other words the GPMD ZPD and SCMD need not be stand alone computing devices in various configurations.

The SCMD maintains provisioning information e.g. previously purchased media content for a particular end user and mobile station . The SCMD can also maintain information about the prices for various media content. For example previously purchased media content can have a catalog price set to zero dollars 0 to reflect the user already having purchased such media content. The SCMD can communicate the provisioning information to the GPMD and vice versa. Prices can vary according to mobile station make model and operating system. Of course other parameters can affect pricing.

During the media transfer process for a mobile device the GPMD coordinates and controls various actions within the process. For example the GPMD communicates with the SCMD via the private network to gather and confirm various provisioning information e.g. information about previously purchased media content for a particular end user and mobile station . For example GPMD can perform or control an authorization accounting AAA check e.g. at a LDAP server not shown to ensure that a given user is authorized to receive media content before download or provisioning occurs.

Based on the confirmed results the GPMD transmits provisioning information related to the user s mobile station to the ZPD . The provisioning information can include previously purchased media content for the particular end user and mobile station . In turn the ZPD prepares by communicating with the application server the various versions of the replacement media content for transmission to the mobile station. The provisioning information can include items such as the price of the media content the network address of the application server and other information. After completing the provisioning of the replacement media content e.g. application s and or media the ZPD notifies the GPMD .

In response the GPMD cooperates with the network elements of the mobile traffic network to transmit a SMS message with download instructions to the user. Of course an EMS or MMS message can also be used. The end user of the mobile station can then execute the download instructions to download the media content to the particular mobile station from the application server .

As outlined above the example utilizes SMS type messaging transport through the network to instruct a user on how to download previously purchased media content to a new mobile station e.g. to a certified like new replacement device or an upgraded device. A SMS message includes source and destination address fields. For messages from a user device the source address is the MDN of the sending customer s mobile station. For example a SMS message sent from a mobile station includes the MDN of the mobile station as the identifier of the source of the message. The destination address may be a MDN of a destination station or some other form of recognizable address. Of note for purposes of this discussion of media content transfer one type of alternative address is a short code typically four five six eight or twelve digits. The network routes a SMS message with a MDN destination address all the way through to the addressed mobile station however the network routes a SMS message with a short code destination address to a service provider application corresponding to the short code.

SMS routing thus allows use of short codes as a mechanism to route messages to from a service provider as opposed to communication of messages between end user devices. For this purpose the short code is recognized by a control application in the network as being a message to a service provider as opposed to a message between SMS user devices and the control application translates the short code to direct the message to the appropriate service provider platform. Depending on the service the application may process the message e.g. to count votes or the network application may translate the short code to a destination address e.g. an IP address of an external customer s server such as the ESME server of a VASP.

For examples in accordance with the group provisioning manager device would have an assigned terminated or short code. Hence the SMSC routes outgoing messages received through the mobile network from mobile stations like which have a short code for the message destination address of the group provisioning manager device through the network to that device . Each such incoming message would include the MDN of an identified mobile station and the SMSC and other elements of the network would deliver the SMS message to the appropriate station based on the MDN as the message destination address.

With reference to a method of enabling an end user of a mobile station e.g. a cell phone customer to transfer their already purchased media content to another mobile station such as a replacement or upgraded mobile station is shown and described. The method begins with the user signing on to the user s account as accessed through connection with the customer account web server and selecting the media content to be transferred to a new mobile station e.g. as indicated at S1. For example a user could sign on to Web site associated with the user s mobile station account e.g. a My Verizon page for a Verizon Wireless account and then select My Media Retrieval. In response the SCMD can capture provisioning events along with user information corresponding to the user and mobile station and send such to the GPMD e.g. as indicated at S2 for provisioning for the user s new mobile station . The provisioning data can include a zero dollar 0 catalog price for already provisioned media content.

The GPMD after receiving the provisioning information from the SCMD can query a network server such as a LDAP server as part of an authentication authorization accounting AAA process e.g. as indicated at S3 to confirm or deny the user s authorization to access the selected media content e.g. as indicated at S4. A query to a LDAP server can include a MDN MIN information about billing e.g. pre paid and or the type of environment or platform the media content is configured to run on e.g. BREW. A failure notification can be sent by the GPMD in instances where there is inquiry error e.g. LDAP response error.

In response to user confirmation the GPMD can send instructions e.g. SID ItemID PH for provisioning selected mobile station media content e.g. the user s selected previously purchased media content as selected in S1 to the ZPD e.g. as a folder indicated in a network database accessible through the user s account to access and download e.g. as indicated at S5. The ZPD can communicate with one or more zone servers not shown such as zone Web User Interface WebUI server and zone application servers and or application server . Results of the provisioning e.g. success or failures notices can also be sent to the user by way of the user s MyAccount on PC e.g. as indicated at S6.

Once the newly provisioned media content has been sent to the user s folder in the network database e.g. a zone server . the GPMD can send a SMS message to the user s mobile station with instructions for downloading the media content to the user s mobile station e.g. as indicated at S7.

The user can then download the media content e.g. by launching an appropriate program from the mobile station or otherwise querying the application download server ADS e.g. as indicated at S8. Other actions can be taken as well. For example one or more download acknowledgements can be sent from the ADS server to the user s mobile station and or PC .

The hardware elements operating systems and programming languages of such computers are conventional in nature and it is presumed that those skilled in the art are adequately familiar therewith. Of course the server functions may be implemented in a distributed fashion on a number of similar platforms to distribute the processing load.

Hence aspects of the methods of media content transfer can be executed on or facilitated with a mobile station and on a network element such as a server. Program aspects of the technology may be thought of as products or articles of manufacture typically in the form of executable code and or associated data that is carried on or embodied in a type of machine readable medium. Storage type media include any or all of the memory of the mobile stations computers processors or the like or associated modules thereof such as various semiconductor memories tape drives disk drives and the like which may provide storage at any time for the software programming. All or portions of the software may at times be communicated through the Internet or various other telecommunication networks. Such communications for example may enable loading of the software from one computer or processor into another computer or processor. For example previously purchased media content e.g. an application for backing up contact information or a ringtone etc. can be communicated to a user s mobile station or other mobile station. Thus another type of media that may bear the software elements includes optical electrical and electromagnetic waves such as used across physical interfaces between local devices through wired and optical landline networks and over various air links. The physical elements that carry such waves such as wired or wireless links optical links or the like also may be considered as media bearing the software. As used herein unless restricted to tangible non transitory storage media terms such as computer or machine readable medium refer to any medium that participates in providing instructions to a processor for execution.

Hence a machine readable medium may take many forms including but not limited to a tangible storage medium a carrier wave medium or physical transmission medium. Non volatile storage media include for example optical or magnetic disks such as any of the storage devices in any computer s or the like such as may be used to implement the data aggregator the customer communication system etc. shown in the drawings. Volatile storage media include dynamic memory such as main memory of such a computer platform. Tangible transmission media include coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including the wires that comprise a bus within a computer system. Carrier wave transmission media can take the form of electric or electromagnetic signals or acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio frequency RF and infrared IR data communications. Common forms of computer readable media therefore include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM DVD or DVD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical storage medium with patterns of holes a RAM a PROM and EPROM a FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave transporting data or instructions cables or links transporting such a carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read programming code and or data. Many of these forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying one or more sequences of one or more instructions to a processor for execution

Those skilled in the art will recognize that the present teachings are amenable to a variety of modifications and or enhancements. For example although some aspects of the present disclosure describe downloading media content from a network to a mobile station the downloaded media content can also be downloaded from a PC while the end user is accessing their mobile account information via the customer account web server .

While the foregoing has described what are considered to be the best mode and or other examples it is understood that various modifications may be made therein and that the subject matter disclosed herein may be implemented in various forms and examples and that the teachings may be applied in numerous applications only some of which have been described herein. It is intended by the following claims to claim any and all applications modifications and variations that fall within the true scope of the present teachings.

The description above has used a large number of acronyms to refer to various services messages and system components. Although generally known use of several of these acronyms is not strictly standardized in the art. For the convenience of the reader the following list correlates terms to acronyms as used by way of example in the detailed description above.

