---

title: System and method for selecting a Wi-Fi access point for position determination
abstract: Methods, systems, computer-readable media, and apparatuses for position determination are presented. In some embodiments, a method for position determination includes selecting at least one of a plurality of access points based on a measure of response time variability associated with the at least one access point. The method further includes sending, from a device, a communication to the selected at least one access point. The method also includes receiving, from the selected at least one access point, a response to the communication. The method additionally includes calculating a distance from the device to the selected at least one access point based on a round trip time associated with the response to the communication.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09538330&OS=09538330&RS=09538330
owner: QUALLCOMM Incorporated
number: 09538330
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130821
---
Aspects of the disclosure relate to wireless communication. More specifically aspects of the disclosure relate to Wi Fi access point AP positioning and navigation systems.

Modern navigation systems have typically used satellite based global positioning system GPS for position determination. However the recent proliferation of Wi Fi access points has made it possible for navigation systems to use these access points for position determination especially in urban areas where there is usually large concentration of Wi Fi access points. WLAN navigation systems can be advantageous over GPS navigation systems because of limitations of GPS signal coverage. For example while GPS signals may not be readily available inside a shopping mall wireless signals generated by Wi Fi access points inside the shopping mall would be more readily detectable by a mobile communication device.

More specifically for WLAN navigation systems the locations of the Wi Fi access points are used as reference points from which well known trilateration techniques can determine the location of a mobile device e.g. a Wi Fi enabled cell phone laptop or tablet computer . The mobile device can use the round trip time RTT of signals transmitted to and from the access points to calculate the distances between the mobile device and the access points. Once these distances are calculated the location of the mobile device can be estimated using trilateration techniques.

When using RTT techniques to determine the distances between the mobile device and the visible Wi Fi access points the geographic locations e.g. latitude and longitude of the access points need to be known. A number of online databases can be used to determine the locations of large numbers of actively deployed Wi Fi access points according to their unique basic service set identifier BSSID values. For example companies including Google Skyhook Devicescape and WiGLE have built databases of BSSID values and the geographic locations of the corresponding access points.

However such WLAN navigation systems are inherently imprecise because different make and models of Wi Fi access points typically have different RTT characteristics. For example different access point products even those manufactured by the same company may have different response times associated with transmitting a beacon signal in response to a probe signal generated by the mobile device. Not knowing the exact response time of a particular access point introduces inaccuracies in the measured RTT. Thus because of the relatively short broadcast range of Wi Fi access points e.g. typically less than 30 meters in relation to the propagation speed of the Wi Fi signals inaccuracies in the calculated RTT resulting from unknown variations in the access points response times can lead to large errors in the calculated position of the mobile device.

Conventional WLAN navigation and positioning systems typically assume the same estimated RTT characteristics for all APs irrespective of their make and model. Thus because distance calculations using RTT techniques depend upon processing delays that are specific to individual access points which in turn typically vary between devices manufactured by different companies and even between different products produced by the same company such conventional WLAN navigation systems are prone to errors that hinder their accuracy.

Accordingly there is a need for a system that can consider the varying RTT delay characteristics of a variety of different Wi Fi access point devices when determining position information of a mobile device using Wi Fi access points.

In some embodiments a method for position determination includes selecting at least one of a plurality of access points based on a measure of response time variability associated with the at least one access point. The method further includes sending from a device a communication to the selected at least one access point. The method also includes receiving from the selected at least one access point a response to the communication. The method additionally includes calculating a distance from the device to the selected at least one access point based on a round trip time associated with the response to the communication.

In some embodiments the method further includes querying a database comprising a weight assigned to the at least one access point.

In some embodiments the weight is based at least in part on the measure of response time variability.

In some embodiments the weight is based at least in part on a media access control address of the at least one access point.

In some embodiments the response time comprises a signal time and a processing time and wherein the response time variability is attributed to a variance in the processing time.

In some embodiments the variance in the processing time is determined using a standard deviation calculation.

In some embodiments the method further includes determining a position of the device based at least in part on the calculating.

In some embodiments an apparatus for position determination includes a transceiver configured to send and receive a communication and a processor coupled to the transceiver. The processor is configured to select at least one of a plurality of access points based on a measure of response time variability associated with the at least one access point. The processor is further configured to send via the transceiver the communication to the selected at least one access point. The processor is also configured to receive via the transceiver from the selected at least one access point a response to the communication. The processor is additionally configured to calculate a distance from the device to the selected at least one access point based on a round trip time associated with the response to the communication.

In some embodiments an apparatus for position determination includes means for selecting at least one of a plurality of access points based on a measure of response time variability associated with the at least one access point. The apparatus further includes means for sending from a device a communication to the selected at least one access point. The apparatus also includes means for receiving from the selected at least one access point a response to the communication. The apparatus additionally includes means for calculating a distance from the device to the selected at least one access point based on a round trip time associated with the response to the communication.

In some embodiments a processor readable medium includes processor readable instructions configured to cause a processor to select at least one of a plurality of access points based on a measure of response time variability associated with the at least one access point. In some embodiments the instructions are further configured to cause the processor to send from a device the communication to the selected at least one access point. In some embodiments the instructions are further configured to cause the processor to receive from the selected at least one access point a response to the communication. In some embodiments the instructions are further configured to cause the processor to calculate a distance from the device to the selected at least one access point based on a round trip time associated with the response to the communication.

Several illustrative embodiments will now be described with respect to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof. While particular embodiments in which one or more aspects of the disclosure may be implemented are described below other embodiments may be used and various modifications may be made without departing from the scope of the disclosure or the spirit of the appended claims.

A method and apparatus for ranking and or assigning weight to an AP based on a measure of response time variability to a RTT communication are disclosed that improves accuracy of WLAN navigation and positioning systems. In the following description numerous specific details are set forth such as examples of specific components circuits and processes to provide a thorough understanding of the present disclosure. Also in the following description and for purposes of explanation specific nomenclature is set forth to provide a thorough understanding of the present embodiments. However it will be apparent to one skilled in the art that these specific details may not be required to practice the present embodiments. In other instances well known circuits and devices are shown in block diagram form to avoid obscuring the present disclosure. The term coupled as used herein means connected directly to or connected through one or more intervening components of circuits. Any of the signals provided over various buses described herein may be time multiplexed with other signals and provided over one or more common buses. Additionally the interconnection between circuit elements or software blocks may be shown as buses or as single signal lines. Each of the buses may alternatively be a single signal line and each of the single signal lines may alternatively be buses and a single line or bus might represent any one or more of myriad physical or logical mechanisms for communication between components. The present embodiments are not to be construed as limited to specific examples described herein but rather to include within their scopes all embodiments defined by the appended claims.

In accordance with present embodiments a Wi Fi AP database accessible by mobile communication devices may be configured to store rank and or weight characteristics assigned to a plurality of actively deployed Wi Fi APs of various makes and models. The rank and or weight characteristics may be assigned to the Wi Fi APs based on a measure of variability in response time to a RTT communication initiated by the mobile communication device. An AP s response time to a RTT communication may include but is not limited to a signal time and a processing time. The signal time may be the over the air time of the signal. That is the time that the RTT communication takes to travel from the mobile communication device to the AP and from the AP back to the communication device excluding any processing time. The processing time may be the time that the AP takes to the process the received RTT communication and send a response back to the mobile communication device. In some embodiments the processing time may also include the processing time at the mobile communication device both before sending the RTT communication and after receiving a response to the RTT communication. However for purposes of this disclosure processing time may refer only to the processing time at the AP. Typically the processing times and ultimately response times as a result thereof for each AP have an amount of variability. APs from some manufacturers or specific AP models may have less response time variability than APs from other manufacturers or other AP models. In some cases different APs of the same manufacturer and model may also have response time variability.

In some embodiments the response time variability may be determined by placing a mobile communication device at a known specific location within a Wi Fi geospace. The mobile communication device may be used to send multiple RTT communications or ping requests to a target AP. The response time variability may be determined by calculating the processing time at the AP of the RTT communication. That is the time between after the AP receives the RTT communication and prior to sending a response to the RTT communication. The processing time excludes any over the air time or signal time of the RTT communication. The response time variability of the AP may be determined based on the variability of the processing times for each of the multiple RTT communications or ping requests sent to the AP from the mobile communication device. The variability may be calculated using a standard deviation calculation. A rank and or weight may be assigned to the AP based on the amount of response time variability determined for the AP. For example an AP having low response time variability may be assigned a higher rank and or a higher weight. Similarly an AP having high response time variability may be assigned a lower rank and or a lower weight.

In some embodiments the rank and or weight assigned to the Wi Fi APs may be based on an AP s media access control MAC address. Some AP manufacturers may inherently have less response time variability with their APs than those of other manufacturers. By determining the manufacturer of an AP by decoding the manufacturer field in an AP s MAC address a rank and or weight may be assigned to the AP based on information previously known about the response time variability of APs from that manufacturer. For example an AP from a manufacturer known to have low response time variability may be assigned a higher rank and or a higher weight. Similarly an AP from a manufacturer having high response time variability may be assigned a lower rank and or a lower weight.

In some embodiments more than one AP may be used for determining a position of the mobile communication device. As such RTT communications may be sent to more than one AP within the Wi Fi geospace. In such cases the number of APs out of the total number of currently deployed APs within the Wi Fi geospace that may need to be used for accurate position determination may be based on the assigned weights of each of the APs. For example if 10 APs exist within the Wi Fi geospace only 3 APs having high weights low response time variability assigned to them may be needed to obtain an accurate position determination using RTT communications.

Processor may be any general purpose processor operable to carry out instructions on the mobile communication device . The processor is coupled to other units of the mobile device including display input device speaker memory wireless transceiver and computer readable medium .

Display may be any device that displays information to a user. Examples may include an LCD screen CRT monitor or seven segment display.

Input device may be any device that accepts input from a user. Examples may include a keyboard keypad or mouse.

Speaker may be any device that outputs sound to a user. Examples may include a built in speaker or any other device that produces sound in response to an electrical audio signal.

Memory may be any magnetic electronic or optical memory. Memory includes two memory modules module and module . It can be appreciated that memory may include any number of memory modules. An example of memory may be dynamic random access memory DRAM .

Wireless transceiver may be any transmitter receiver configured to send and receive wireless signals. The wireless transceiver may be operable to send and receive the wireless signals in a format specified by a wireless specification e.g. Wi Fi. In some embodiments wireless transceiver may be used for sending an RTT communication to an AP and for receiving a response to the RTT communication from the AP.

Computer readable medium may be any magnetic electronic optical or other computer readable storage medium. Computer readable storage medium includes database access module and RTT module .

Database access module is configured to access a Wi Fi AP database. The Wi Fi AP database may include information about currently deployed APs within a Wi Fi geospace. The information may include but is not limited to AP number AP MAC address make model of the AP RTT response time variability of the AP AP rank and AP weight. The mobile communication device may select one or more APs from the Wi Fi AP database for position determination using RTT communications based on the information in the Wi Fi AP database.

RTT module is configured to send and receive RTT communications. The RTT module may send and receive the RTT communications via wireless transceiver as described above. RTT module may be responsible for all facets of the RTT communication including generation of the packet used for the RTT communication and analyzing the received response to the RTT communication.

AP Selection module is configured to select an access point based on rank and or weight information about the access point. AP selection module may interface with database access module to receive the database contents retrieved by the database access module . AP selection module may select the APs having higher rank and or weight attributes to be used for position determination using RTT communications.

Distance calculation module is configured to calculate a distance between the mobile communication device and an AP within a Wi Fi geospace. The calculated distance may be based on a response time to the RTT communication initiated by RTT module . For example the distance between the mobile communication device and an AP may be based on the AP s response time to the RTT communication and the speed of the light.

Position determination module is configured to determine a position of the mobile communication device . The position determination module may determine the device s position based on the distance calculation by distance calculation module . Since the locations of the APs are known and accessible by database access module position determination module may determine the position since the device s distance from the AP is also known as determined by distance calculation module .

The APs which are well known wireless access points e.g. operating according to the IEEE 802.11 family of standards are each assigned a unique MAC address that is programmed therein by the manufacturer of the AP. Each MAC address which is also commonly referred to as the burned in address or the organizationally unique identifier OUI typically includes six bytes of data. The first three bytes of the MAC address identify which organization manufactured the AP device e.g. whether the AP made by Qualcomm Inc. by Cisco Systems Inc. etc. and are assigned to organizations by IEEE. As described below the manufacturer information obtained from the AP s MAC address may be used to determine to assign a rank and or weight to each AP within the Wi Fi geospace .

It can be appreciated that any of the APs or a combination of more than one AP within the Wi Fi geospace may be used for position determination of the mobile communication device . The position may be determined using RTT communication methods described above. In order to determine which of the APs may be used for providing the most accurate position determination the Wi Fi AP database may be queried to obtain information about the APs within the Wi Fi geospace . The information may include but is not limited to AP number AP MAC address make model of the AP RTT response time variability of the AP AP rank and AP weight.

As described above each AP has an RTT response time variability attributed to processing time variability. Not knowing the RTT response time variability of the APs undesirably leads to inaccuracies in determining the exact location of the mobile communication device using WLAN positioning systems because of variations in the RTT response time variability of different make and models of APs .

Thus in accordance with present embodiments the Wi Fi AP database is populated with RTT response time variability information about the APs. The Wi Fi AP database is also populated with a rank and or weight assigned to each AP based on the RTT response time variability. The RTT response time variability may be predetermined based on manufacturer information obtainable from the MAC address also stored within the Wi Fi AP database of the AP or may be measured.

Population of the Wi Fi AP database with RTT response time variability information a plurality of different APs can be performed by individually measuring the RTT response time variability of a selected number of such APs . In some embodiments the response time variability may be determined by placing the mobile communication device at a known specific location within a Wi Fi geospace . The mobile communication device may be used to send multiple RTT communications or ping requests to a target AP . The response time variability may be determined by calculating the processing time at the AP of the RTT communication. That is the time between after the AP receives the RTT communication and prior to sending a response to the RTT communication. The processing time excludes any over the air time or signal time of the RTT communication. The response time variability of the AP may be determined based on the variability of the processing times for each of the multiple RTT communications or ping requests sent to the AP from the mobile communication device. The variability may be calculated using a standard deviation calculation. A rank and or weight may be assigned to the AP based on the amount of response time variability determined for the AP . For example an AP having low response time variability may be assigned a higher rank and or a higher weight. Similarly an AP having high response time variability may be assigned a lower rank and or a lower weight.

Once the Wi Fi AP database is sufficiently populated with entries the RTT response time variability rank and or weight can be retrieved by the mobile communication device for a selected AP by performing a look up within the Wi Fi AP database . The lookup value may be based on the MAC address of the AP or a specific AP number of the AP . For example the plurality of APs within the Wi Fi geospace of have the following AP numbers AP 1 AP 2 AP 3 AP 4 and AP 5. Once the mobile communication device retrieves the information about the AP from the Wi Fi AP database the mobile communication device can select one or more APs to use for WLAN positioning using RTT communications. The selection may be based on the rank and or weight assigned to the specific APs . The mobile communication device may select the APs that would provide the most accuracy for location determination.

For example to determine the location of mobile device within the Wi Fi geospace via trilateration techniques using the locations of the APs as fixed position references the mobile communication device first detects the presence of the APs within the Wi Fi geospace. The mobile communication device may then use the MAC addresses of the APs or the AP numbers to retrieve the geographic locations of the access points from the location database . As mentioned above the location database can be provided be companies such as Google Skyhook Devicescape and WiGLE or can be stored within the mobile communication device . Then in accordance with present embodiments mobile communication device uses the MAC addresses of the APs or the AP numbers to retrieve previously measured or previously known from manufacturer information RTT response time variability information assigned rank and or weight of the APs from the Wi Fi AP database . Once the exact locations and the RTT response time variability information assigned rank and or weight of the APs are known the mobile communication device can select one or more APs from the Wi Fi geospace that would provide the most accuracy for determining the distance between itself and each of the APs using RTT communications.

For example when using RTT communications to calculate distances between the mobile communication device and APs the RTT associated with each AP includes a signal propagation time or over the air time t and a processing delay time t where RTT t t. The signal propagation time tis the summation of the travel time of a request signal transmitted from the mobile communication device to the access point and the travel time of a response signal transmitted from the access point back to the mobile communication device . The distance d between the mobile communication device and the selected AP can be expressed as 2 RTT b 1 where c is the speed of light. For some embodiments the value of RTT can be measured by the mobile communication device a plurality of times to generate an average RTT value RTT in which case the value of RTT is used in Equation 1 instead of a single measured value RTT.

In accordance with present embodiments the value for the processing delay time t which is specific to the make and model of the selected AP typically varies between various make and models of APs . Furthermore the processing delay time tmay have some degree of variability meaning that the value of tmay not be consistent for every RTT communication. Some APs may have less RTT response time variability than others. Due to the RTT response time variability the distance d between the mobile communication device and the selected access points may not be accurate. By querying the Wi Fi AP database as described above the mobile communication device may select the APs having lower RTT response time variability to obtain a more accurate distance d determination and ultimately location determination.

Each entry is shown to include an AP number a MAC address field a make and model field an RTT response time variability field a rank field and a weight field . For other embodiments each entry can include other fields to store additional information about the corresponding AP and or a corresponding group of APs having similar if not identical characteristics. For some embodiments the Wi Fi AP database can provide its services through a website or one or more application programming interfaces APIs to interested third parties e.g. mobile communication devices .

The AP number field contains the number of the AP within the Wi Fi geospace. The AP number may be unique to each specific AP within the Wi Fi geospace and dynamically assigned by the WLAN system.

The MAC address field contains either the MAC address corresponding to a specific AP or a range of MAC addresses corresponding to a group of APs estimated to have similar characteristics.

The make and model field can include information identifying the corresponding AP or groups of APs e.g. the manufacturer the particular type or product name of the AP and so on .

The RTT response time variability field contains either measured values or predetermined values based on manufacturer and product information of RTT response time variability of a specific AP. The RTT response time variability may be expressed in terms of standard deviations. As described above the RTT response time variability may be measured by a mobile communication device. More specifically the processing delay time tfor a selected make and model of access point can be calculated from a measured value of RTT if the exact distance d between the mobile communication device and the selected AP is known where RTT 2 2 

The rank field can include ranking information about the corresponding AP or group of APs. The rank may indicate the accuracy of WLAN positioning when using the AP and may be based on the RTT response time variability. For example APs having less RTT response time variability may be assigned a higher rank and vice versa. An AP may be selected for WLAN positioning based on its assigned rank.

The weight field can include an assigned weight for a specific AP. The weight may also indicate the accuracy of the WLAN positioning when using the AP and may be based on the RTT response time variability. For example APs having less RTT response time variability may be assigned a higher weight and vice versa. An AP may be selected for WLAN positioning based on its assigned weight. In some embodiments the weight may be on a scale of 1 10.

The second entry shows information about AP number 2 including a single MAC address that corresponds to product B the RTT response time variability value of 3 a rank of 3 and a weight of 6. This indicates that product B has a mediocre RTT response time variability 3 standard deviations and thereby has a medium rank and medium weight. AP Number 2 may only be a likely candidate for selection if no other higher ranked weighted candidate is available for selection by the mobile communication device for WLAN positioning using RTT communications.

The third entry shows information about AP number 3 including a single MAC address that corresponds to product A the RTT response time variability value of 1 a rank of 2 and a weight of 9. This indicates that product A has a low RTT response time variability 1 standard deviation and thereby has a high rank and high weight. AP Number 1 may be a likely candidate for selection by the mobile communication device for WLAN positioning using RTT communications. AP Number 3 is also the same product product A as AP number 1 and therefore it is not surprising that the RTT response time variability is low.

The fourth entry shows information about AP number 4 including a single MAC address that corresponds to product C the RTT response time variability value of 6 a rank of 4 and a weight of 3. This indicates that product C has a high RTT response time variability 6 standard deviations and thereby has a low rank and low weight. AP Number 4 may not be a likely candidate for selection by the mobile communication device for WLAN positioning using RTT communications due to its low rank and low weight.

The fifth entry shows information about AP number 5 including a single MAC address that corresponds to product D the RTT response time variability value of 8 a rank of 5 and a weight of 1. This indicates that product D has a very high RTT response time variability 8 standard deviations and thereby has a lower rank and lower weight. AP Number 5 may not be a likely candidate for selection by the mobile communication device for WLAN positioning using RTT communications due to its low rank and low weight.

As mentioned above for some embodiments the Wi Fi AP database can be dynamically updated with new entries new entries generated by a mobile communication device of the type described above with respect to . In this manner users of the Wi Fi AP database can continuously scan the Wi Fi geospace for access points and update the Wi Fi AP database with additional and or refined entries.

In other embodiments the Wi Fi AP database can use the MAC addresses and or make and model information stored therein to obtain additional information related to corresponding access points from other databases e.g. location database of or a manufacturer s website . The additional information may include boot up time channel specification such as 1 1 2 2 or 3 3 channels and the 802.11 standard specification such as a b g or n.

It can be appreciated that while shows three APs being selected and used for WLAN positioning a single AP or any number of APs may be used for WLAN positioning using RTT communications within the Wi Fi geospace . In some embodiments the number of APs used for WLAN positioning may be based on the weights assigned to the APs . For example if several APs having higher weights assigned to them are available within the Wi Fi geospace a lower number of APs may be needed for accurate WLAN positioning and vice versa. A formula incorporating the weights assigned to the APs to determine how many APs may be needed for WLAN positioning may be used in making the selections. Additionally the weights may be assigned to the APs according to a predetermined formula.

The mobile communication device may send RTT communications to AP Numbers 1 2 and 3. In response AP Numbers 1 2 and 3 may send a response to the RTT communication back to the mobile communication device . Based on the RTT of the RTT communication mobile communication device may determine its position within the Wi Fi geospace using the methods described above. Since the locations of the APs are known and stored within location database mobile communication device may determine its position using the RTT of the RTT communication.

For example in three APs within the Wi Fi geospace are selected. The selection is made based on an assigned rank and weight of each AP which in turn are based on the response time variability associated with each AP. The rank weight and response time variability of each AP may be retrieved by the device from a Wi Fi AP database.

In block a communication is sent from a device to the selected at least one access point. The communication may be a RTT communication where a ping request is sent to from the device to access point. For example in the mobile communication device sends a RTT communication to three of the five access points within the Wi Fi geospace.

In block a response to the communication from the selected at least one access point is received. The response to the communication may be a response to the RTT communication sent by the device to the access point. The response may be sent by the access point after it has processed the received the RTT communication sent by the device. For example in the mobile communication device receives a response to the RTT communication from three of the five access points within the Wi Fi geospace.

In block a distance from the device to the selected at least one access point is calculated based on a round trip time associated with the response to the communication. In some embodiments the locations of the access point s are stored within a location database. The mobile communication device can query the location database to obtain the access point location information. After receiving a response to the RTT communication the mobile communication device may determine the RTT. As described above using the RTT speed of light and known locations of the access point s the mobile device communication device may calculate its distance to the access point s . In some embodiments the method further includes determining a position of the device based at least in part on the calculating. For example in the mobile communication device may determine its position within the Wi Fi geospace based on a RTT to three of the five APs within the Wi Fi geospace.

In some embodiments selecting the access point includes querying a database including at least one of information about the at least one access point an assigned weight of the access point and the variance in response time. The access point may be queried via the database access module of .

In some embodiments the response time includes a signal time and a processing time and the variance in response time is attributed to a variance in the processing time.

In block a response to the communication is sent to the mobile device wherein the mobile device is configured to calculate a distance from the mobile device to the access point based on a round trip time associated with the response to the communication. The mobile device may receive the communication via the RTT module of .

In block a response for each of the plurality of communications is received from the access point. The response may be received by the RTT module of .

In block a variance in response time of the access point is determined wherein the variance in response time is based on a variance of time between the sending step and the receiving step.

In block a weight is assigned to the access point based at least in part on the variance in response time.

In block a database is populated with at least one of information about the access point the assigned weight and the variance in response time. The database may be populated using the database access module of .

In some embodiments the variance in response time is determined using a standard deviation calculation.

In some embodiments the response time includes a signal time and a processing time and the response time variability is attributed to a variance in the processing time.

In some embodiments the information includes at least of an identifier corresponding to the access point a MAC address corresponding to the access point and manufacturer information corresponding to the access point.

The computer system is shown comprising hardware elements that can be electrically coupled via a bus or may otherwise be in communication as appropriate . The hardware elements may include one or more processors including without limitation one or more general purpose processors and or one or more special purpose processors such as digital signal processing chips graphics acceleration processors and or the like one or more input devices which can include without limitation one or more cameras sensors a mouse a keyboard a microphone configured to detect ultrasound or other sounds and or the like and one or more output devices which can include without limitation a display unit such as the device used in embodiments of the invention a printer and or the like.

In some implementations of the embodiments of the invention various input devices and output devices may be embedded into interfaces such as display devices tables floors walls and window screens. Furthermore input devices and output devices coupled to the processors may form multi dimensional tracking systems.

The computer system may further include and or be in communication with one or more non transitory storage devices which can comprise without limitation local and or network accessible storage and or can include without limitation a disk drive a drive array an optical storage device a solid state storage device such as a random access memory RAM and or a read only memory ROM which can be programmable flash updateable and or the like. Such storage devices may be configured to implement any appropriate data storage including without limitation various file systems database structures and or the like.

The computer system might also include a communications subsystem which can include without limitation a modem a network card wireless or wired an infrared communication device a wireless communication device and or chipset such as a Bluetooth device an 802.11 device a Wi Fi device a WiMax device cellular communication facilities etc. and or the like. The communications subsystem may permit data to be exchanged with a network other computer systems and or any other devices described herein. In many embodiments the computer system will further comprise a non transitory working memory which can include a RAM or ROM device as described above.

The computer system also can comprise software elements shown as being currently located within the working memory including an operating system device drivers executable libraries and or other code such as one or more application programs which may comprise computer programs provided by various embodiments and or may be designed to implement methods and or configure systems provided by other embodiments as described herein. Merely by way of example one or more procedures described with respect to the method s discussed above might be implemented as code and or instructions executable by a computer and or a processor within a computer in an aspect then such code and or instructions can be used to configure and or adapt a general purpose computer or other device to perform one or more operations in accordance with the described methods.

A set of these instructions and or code might be stored on a computer readable storage medium such as the storage device s described above. In some cases the storage medium might be incorporated within a computer system such as computer system . In other embodiments the storage medium might be separate from a computer system e.g. a removable medium such as a compact disc and or provided in an installation package such that the storage medium can be used to program configure and or adapt a general purpose computer with the instructions code stored thereon. These instructions might take the form of executable code which is executable by the computer system and or might take the form of source and or installable code which upon compilation and or installation on the computer system e.g. using any of a variety of generally available compilers installation programs compression decompression utilities etc. then takes the form of executable code.

Substantial variations may be made in accordance with specific requirements. For example customized hardware might also be used and or particular elements might be implemented in hardware software including portable software such as applets etc. or both. Further connection to other computing devices such as network input output devices may be employed. In some embodiments one or more elements of the computer system may be omitted or may be implemented separate from the illustrated system. For example the processor and or other elements may be implemented separate from the input device . In one embodiment the processor is configured to receive images from one or more cameras that are separately implemented. In some embodiments elements in addition to those illustrated in may be included in the computer system .

Some embodiments may employ a computer system such as the computer system to perform methods in accordance with the disclosure. For example some or all of the procedures of the described methods may be performed by the computer system in response to processor executing one or more sequences of one or more instructions which might be incorporated into the operating system and or other code such as an application program contained in the working memory . Such instructions may be read into the working memory from another computer readable medium such as one or more of the storage device s . Merely by way of example execution of the sequences of instructions contained in the working memory might cause the processor s to perform one or more procedures of the methods described herein.

The terms machine readable medium and computer readable medium as used herein refer to any medium that participates in providing data that causes a machine to operate in a specific fashion. In some embodiments implemented using the computer system various computer readable media might be involved in providing instructions code to processor s for execution and or might be used to store and or carry such instructions code e.g. as signals . In many implementations a computer readable medium is a physical and or tangible storage medium. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media include for example optical and or magnetic disks such as the storage device s . Volatile media include without limitation dynamic memory such as the working memory . Transmission media include without limitation coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including the wires that comprise the bus as well as the various components of the communications subsystem and or the media by which the communications subsystem provides communication with other devices . Hence transmission media can also take the form of waves including without limitation radio acoustic and or light waves such as those generated during radio wave and infrared data communications .

Common forms of physical and or tangible computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape or any other magnetic medium a CD ROM any other optical medium punchcards papertape any other physical medium with patterns of holes a RAM a PROM EPROM a FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave as described hereinafter or any other medium from which a computer can read instructions and or code.

Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying one or more sequences of one or more instructions to the processor s for execution. Merely by way of example the instructions may initially be carried on a magnetic disk and or optical disc of a remote computer. A remote computer might load the instructions into its dynamic memory and send the instructions as signals over a transmission medium to be received and or executed by the computer system . These signals which might be in the form of electromagnetic signals acoustic signals optical signals and or the like are all examples of carrier waves on which instructions can be encoded in accordance with various embodiments of the invention.

The communications subsystem and or components thereof generally will receive the signals and the bus then might carry the signals and or the data instructions etc. carried by the signals to the working memory from which the processor s retrieves and executes the instructions. The instructions received by the working memory may optionally be stored on a non transitory storage device either before or after execution by the processor s .

The methods systems and devices discussed above are examples. Various embodiments may omit substitute or add various procedures or components as appropriate. For instance in alternative configurations the methods described may be performed in an order different from that described and or various stages may be added omitted and or combined. Also features described with respect to certain embodiments may be combined in various other embodiments. Different aspects and elements of the embodiments may be combined in a similar manner Also technology evolves and thus many of the elements are examples that do not limit the scope of the disclosure to those specific examples.

Specific details are given in the description to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments. However embodiments may be practiced without these specific details. For example well known circuits processes algorithms structures and techniques have been shown without unnecessary detail in order to avoid obscuring the embodiments. This description provides example embodiments only and is not intended to limit the scope applicability or configuration of the invention. Rather the preceding description of the embodiments will provide those skilled in the art with an enabling description for implementing embodiments of the invention. Various changes may be made in the function and arrangement of elements without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

Also some embodiments are described as processes depicted as flow diagrams or block diagrams. Although each may describe the operations as a sequential process many of the operations can be performed in parallel or concurrently. In addition the order of the operations may be rearranged. A process may have additional steps not included in the figures. Furthermore embodiments of the methods may be implemented by hardware software firmware middleware microcode hardware description languages or any combination thereof. When implemented in software firmware middleware or microcode the program code or code segments to perform the associated tasks may be stored in a computer readable medium such as a storage medium. Processors may perform the associated tasks. Thus in the description above functions or methods that are described as being performed by the computer system may be performed by a processor for example the processor configured to perform the functions or methods. Further such functions or methods may be performed by a processor executing instructions stored on one or more computer readable media.

Having described several embodiments various modifications alternative constructions and equivalents may be used without departing from the spirit of the disclosure. For example the above elements may merely be a component of a larger system wherein other rules may take precedence over or otherwise modify the application of the invention. Also a number of steps may be undertaken before during or after the above elements are considered. Accordingly the above description does not limit the scope of the disclosure.

Various examples have been described. These and other examples are within the scope of the following claims.

