---

title: Power-free apparatus for hydrogen generation from alcohol
abstract: An apparatus and method for generating low pressure hydrogen gas from fuel solutions (i.e., alcohols) without the use of an external power source or external heat source. The apparatus comprises (a) a first chamber for fuel storage having an aperture, (b) a second chamber for the temporary storage of hydrogen gas generated having an aperture, (c) a first electrochemical cell (Cell-1) and (d) a second electrochemical cell (Cell-2). Cell-2 is disposed between the first chamber and the second chamber so that its anode is in fluid communication with the first chamber and its cathode is in fluid communication with the second chamber. Cell-1 is disposed on the opposite side of the first chamber from Cell-2 so that the anode therein is in fluid communication with the first chamber, and the cathode therein is in fluid communication with an oxidizing agent. The first chamber is sandwiched between Cell-1 and Cell-2. An air convection window or like device making ambient air available to the apparatus via Cell-1 is positioned on the side of Cell-1 opposite the fuel chamber. In operation, fuel is provided to the first chamber, the anode of Cell-1 is connected to the cathode of Cell-2, and the cathode of Cell-1 is connected to the anode of Cell-2, and hydrogen gas is continuously generated from the hydrogen chamber. The present invention may be used at room temperature.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09127370&OS=09127370&RS=09127370
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 09127370
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130918
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the United States Government without the payment of royalties.

The present invention relates to the field of electrochemistry and in particular to a power free apparatus suitable for continuous generation of hydrogen gas in the presence of a fuel such as an alcohol water solution.

Hydrogen is considered to be the most promising clean fuel for various applications such as for use in hydrogen air fuel cells electric vehicles using such hydrogen fuel cells as the power generator and chemical synthesis.

Hydrogen gas production has traditionally been achieved via two primary methodologies 1 fuel reformation and 2 water electrolysis each of which have drawbacks.

Fuel reformation such as steam reformation and plasma reformation requires the use of high temperatures i.e. 300 C. 800 C. using for example coal petroleum and natural gas. This technique has low energy efficiency involves complex chemical reactions has a short life produces toxic chemical gases has a low hydrogen conversion percentage and generates hydrogen that is impure. P. K. Cheekatamarla and C. M. Finnerty Reforming catalysts for hydrogen generation in fuel cell applications Journal of Power Sources 160 1 2006 490 C. C. Su C. Y. Huang Y. M. Sun et al. Performance of catalysts CuO ZnO Al 2O 3 CuO ZnO Al 2O 3 Pt Rh and Pt Rh in a small reformer for hydrogen generation Journal of Power Sources 166 2 2007 450. 

While water electrolysis results in pure hydrogen gas it requires the use of an external energy source such as an electric energy source or a battery to operate causing additional power consumption. Moreover water electrolysis often exhibits low energy efficiency. Methods of generating hydrogen via electrolysis of organic chemical and water solutions are taught for example in U.S. Pat. No. 6 432 284 U.S. Pat. No. 7 056 428 U.S. Pat. No. 8 133 464 and U.S. Pat. No. 7 399 392. The teachings of these patents are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

In addition to these drawbacks once hydrogen gas is generated containerization and transportation of hydrogen is a barrier for its practical application. In an effort to overcome this barrier efforts in finding suitable materials that may be used to store and transport hydrogen are being explored. Materials such as metal alanates hydrides amides imides and carbon based materials for hydrogen storage are being evaluated. Jain I. P. Jain P. Jain A. 503 2010 303 339 and Meregalli V. Parrinello M. 72 2001 143 146 These materials however are either corrosive toxic unstable or have very low capacity for hydrogen storage.

The hydrogen generation apparatus of the present invention remedies these limitations in that it does not require high temperature heating an external energy source to operate or containerization.

The present invention relates to an apparatus and method for generating hydrogen for use in a variety of applications such as for example purposes only providing hydrogen for fuel cells and providing hydrogen for use in industrial applications such as the synthesis of ammonia and hydrochloric acid. In particular the present invention provides an environmentally friendly apparatus for the automatic generation of hydrogen wherein hydrogen generation is accomplished without the use of an external power source electric or battery or the use of an external heat source.

Disclosed herein is an apparatus for the automatic and continuous generation of hydrogen gas using a fuel solution wherein the apparatus may be operated at room temperature. The apparatus uses self generated electric power for electrolysis of for example an alcohol water solution to generate hydrogen.

The apparatus comprises a a first chamber for fuel storage also referred to herein as fuel chamber comprising an aperture b a second chamber for temporary hydrogen storage also referred to herein as hydrogen chamber comprising an aperture c a first electrochemical cell Cell 1 and d a second electrochemical cell Cell 2 wherein Cell 2 is disposed between and in contact with the first chamber and the second chamber Cell 1 is disposed at the opposite side of and in contact with the first chamber. The first chamber is sandwiched between Cell 1 and Cell 2. Cell 1 and Cell 2 are present in the apparatus such that the anode of each are in fluid communication with the first chamber and hence would be in fluid communication with fuel provided to the first chamber. The cathode of Cell 2 is in fluid communication with the second chamber while the cathode of Cell 1 is exposed to ambient air oxidizer supply via for example an air convection window.

Cell 1 and Cell 2 each comprises a membrane electrode assembly MEA having an electrolyte membrane sandwiched between an anode and a cathode. The MEA is disposed between a cathode current collector and an anode current collector a first gas diffusion layer is disposed between the MEA and the cathode current collector and a second gas diffusion layer is disposed between the MEA and the anode current collector.

In operation the anode of Cell 1 is connected to the cathode of Cell 2 and the cathode of Cell 1 is connected to the anode of Cell 2. Fuel is provided to the first chamber through an aperture therein fuel inlet port hydrogen is then generated into the second chamber and the hydrogen generated exits from the second chamber through an aperture therein hydrogen outlet port for use. Fuel oxidation occurs at the two anodes. Oxygen reduction occurs at the cathode of Cell 1 to generate water and proton reduction occurs at the cathode of Cell 2 to generate hydrogen. Protons needed by the cathode of Cell 2 are generated from its anode via fuel oxidation.

In some embodiments the first chamber and the second chamber of the apparatus are defined by two separate housings. The first chamber is defined by a first housing having a first open side and a second open side and having at least one aperture and the second chamber is defined by a second housing having one open side and at least one aperture.

In other embodiments the apparatus comprises a housing defining both the first chamber having an aperture and the second chamber having an aperture. The housing has one opening exposed to an oxidizing agent and a wall opposite said opening. Cell 1 and Cell 2 are each disposed in separate spaced apart locations within the housing and partition the housing to create a first chamber and a second chamber therein.

In further embodiments the apparatus comprises a housing defining both the first chamber having an aperture and the second chamber having an aperture where the housing has one opening exposed to an oxidizing agent and a wall opposite said opening and Cell 1 is disposed at the one opening and Cell 2 is disposed at a location within the housing. Cell 1 and Cell 2 partition the housing to create a first chamber and a second chamber therein.

In still a further embodiment the apparatus is a modular apparatus comprising a plurality of components assembled as described and illustrated herein.

The embodiments described are provided for example purposes only. The invention is not intended to be limited thereto.

An apparatus for generating hydrogen without the use of an external energy source or heat source and a method of using the apparatus are claimed herein.

The figures are provided for use in describing the present invention. While specific embodiments of the present invention are illustrated and described the invention is not intended to be limited to the embodiments set forth therein. Other embodiments of the present invention are also contemplated as noted in the description set forth herein. Applicants submit that other modifications and embodiments can be devised by those skilled in the art which fall within the scope and spirit of the principles of the present invention.

As used herein the phrase power free means without the use of an external electric energy source or an external heat source. In particular it is used with reference to the apparatus of the present invention and its use in generating hydrogen wherein no external energy source or heat source is employed therein.

The terms second electrochemical cell and Cell 2 are used interchangeably herein and refer to the electrochemical cell disposed between the fuel chamber and the hydrogen chamber as described and illustrated.

The terms first electrochemical cell and Cell 1 are used interchangeably herein and refer to the electrochemical cell present on the opposite side of the fuel chamber from Cell 2 as described. Ambient air is provided to the apparatus to facilitate the generation of electricity via the cathode of Cell 1 as described and illustrated.

The term aperture as used herein refers to a port present in a housing defining the first chamber and or the second chamber. When used with reference to the first chamber fuel is provided to the chamber therethrough fuel inlet port and or carbon dioxide generated exits therethrough COoutlet port . When used with reference to the second chamber hydrogen gas generated exits therethrough Houtlet port .

The present invention is directed to a method for generating hydrogen without the use of an external electric energy source or external heating source and an apparatus for accomplishing the same. The invention may be described with reference to the figures. Reference numerals are used consistently throughout the figures to represent the same element.

In general the apparatus comprises a a first chamber for fuel storage having at least one aperture b a second chamber for temporary hydrogen storage having at least one aperture c a first electrochemical cell Cell 1 and d a second electrochemical cell Cell 2 wherein Cell 2 is disposed between and in contact with the first chamber and the second chamber Cell 1 is disposed at the opposite side of the first chamber from Cell 2. The first chamber is sandwiched between Cell 1 and Cell 2. Cell 1 and Cell 2 are present in the apparatus such that the anode of each are in fluid communication with the first chamber and hence would be in fluid communication with fuel provided to the first chamber. The cathode of Cell 2 is in fluid communication with the second chamber while the cathode of Cell 1 is exposed to ambient air oxidizer supply via for example an air convection window.

Embodiments wherein the first chamber and the second chamber within the apparatus are each defined by a separate housing are illustrated and described herein with reference to and . In such embodiments the first chamber is defined by a first housing and the second chamber is defined by a second housing.

Embodiments wherein the first chamber and the second chamber of the apparatus are together defined by a single shared housing are illustrated and described with reference to .

Cell 2 is disposed between first chamber and second chamber Cell 1 is disposed on the opposite side of said first chamber from Cell 2 . First chamber is sandwiched between Cell 1 and Cell 2 . The anode not shown of Cell 1 and the anode not shown of Cell 2 are in fluid communication with said first chamber . The cathode not shown of Cell 2 is in fluid communication with the second chamber and the cathode not shown of Cell 1 is in fluid communication with an oxidizing agent i.e. air via air convection window .

As illustrated the first chamber is defined by a first housing having a first open side and a second open side represented by dashed lines in where the first open side and second open side are in spaced apart relationship. First housing further comprises two apertures one through which fuel is introduced to the first chamber and one through which carbon dioxide generated exits during use. The second chamber is physically defined by a second housing having one open side represented by dashed lines in and having one aperture through which hydrogen gas produced during operation exits from the second chamber for use thereof. Cell 1 is disposed at the first open side of the first housing in a fashion such that the anode therein is in fluid communication with said first open side of the first housing Cell 2 is disposed at the second open side of the first housing in such a fashion such that the anode therein is also in fluid communication with said second open side of the first housing . The anode of Cell 1 and the anode of Cell 2 are each in fluid communication with the respective open side of the first housing and hence would be in fluid communication with fuel presented into the fuel chamber . In addition to being disposed at the second open side of the first housing Cell 2 is also disposed at the one open side of second housing so that its cathode is in fluid communication with the one open side and hence second chamber as illustrated. The cathode of Cell 1 faces and is in fluid communication with an oxidizing agent i.e. air via convection window defined by housing .

As illustrated Cell 1 is disposed in a first slot and Cell 2 is disposed in a second slot . Slot and slot each have one opening through which an electrochemical cell may be inserted therein. The opening of each slot is illustrated as being on the upper side of housing .

Slots and may each be described as a channel or groove into which an electrochemical cell may be inserted. Each slot may serve to guide the insertion of an electrochemical cell therein and may further assist in sealing the first chamber and the second chamber from leakage once an electrochemical cell has been inserted therein. Cell 1 and Cell 2 are disposed in the slots and respectively so as to form a seal with the housing so that there is no leakage of fuel presented into first chamber or hydrogen generated into second chamber from each respective chamber.

A further embodiment though not specifically illustrated can be described with reference to as it is a variation of the embodiment illustrated therein. In this embodiment the apparatus comprises a single housing having one opening exposed to an oxidizing agent i.e. ambient air illustrated by an arrow a wall opposite said opening Cell 1 disposed at the one opening of housing as opposed to within housing as illustrated and Cell 2 disposed at a location within the housing in spaced apart relationship to and between the one opening and wall opposite said opening. First chamber is sandwiched between Cell 1 and Cell 2 . The anode of Cell 1 and the anode of Cell 2 are both in fluid communication with the first chamber . The cathode of Cell 1 is in fluid communication with an oxidizing agent while the cathode of Cell 2 is in fluid communication with the second chamber . Cell 2 is disposed in slot . Slot set forth in is not present in this embodiment. Apertures and are present in housing as illustrated. An air convection window not illustrated but similar to that illustrated in as would be disposed against the cathode side of Cell 1 .

As illustrated in the embodiment set forth in the housing comprises slots having one opening through which an electrochemical cell may be inserted. The invention is not intended to be so limited as the invention does not require the use of slots as other methods may be used to facilitate positioning of the cells within the housing. One having ordinary skill in the art will recognize alternate methods that may be employed for accomplishing the same. Moreover where slots are present in the housing more than one slot opening may be provided through which an electrochemical cell may be inserted. For example a slot may have two slot openings on opposite sides of a housing. In addition other embodiments are envisioned wherein the apparatus may be made in such a fashion such that the electrochemical cells and the housing are a single integrated unit from which the electrochemical cells may not be removed i.e. wherein the electrochemical cells are molded into and along with the housing. When slots are employed they may be composed of sealing materials such as Teflon plastic and rubber frames or other materials suitable for the purposes described herein.

In the Figures herein the first chamber is illustrated as having two apertures and the second chamber as having one aperture . Although having these numbers of apertures is preferred the invention is not intended to be so limited. When the first chamber has two apertures for example fuel may be continuously provided into the first chamber via one of the apertures one designated aperture for fuel inlet port while carbon dioxide would exit from the other one designated COoutlet port . First chamber may alternatively for example have one aperture through which fuel may be introduced and carbon dioxide may exit. In addition the second chamber may have more than one aperture as well.

First housing second housing air convection window housing and single housing may be composed of one or more insulating materials such as for example purposes only plastic ceramic and glass. These housings may also be fabricated from an electrically conducting material provided that an electrically resistive coating is disposed thereon. One having ordinary skill in the art with knowledge of the present invention and its operation will be able to select a suitable material to use for the housing for the purpose intended.

Each of Cell 1 and Cell 2 comprises a membrane electrode assembly MEA a cathode current collector an anode current collector a first gas diffusion layer and a second gas diffusion layer. Cell 1 may further comprise a hydrophobic air filter. The components of Cell 1 and Cell 2 may be described with reference to .

Cell 1 comprises membrane electrode assembly 1 MEA 1 disposed between cathode current collector and anode current collector . Cathode current collector is present on the cathode side of MEA 1 and is in electrical contact with the cathode not shown of MEA 1 anode current collector is disposed on the anode side of MEA 1 and is in electrical contact with the anode not shown of MEA 1 . First gas diffusion layer which is present therein for air diffusion is disposed between MEA 1 and cathode current collector . Second gas diffusion layer which is present therein for fuel diffusion is disposed between MEA 1 and anode current collector . Cell 1 may further comprise a hydrophobic air filter disposed adjacent cathode current collector . For illustration purposes only MEA 1 may be made with a proton exchange membrane such as Nafion 117 DuPont Co. having a catalyst layer coated on both its sides. First gas diffusion layer and air filter may comprise a carbon cloth coated with a mixture of carbon powder and Teflon polytetrafluoroethylene by DuPont Co. having a Teflon content of greater than approximately 20 wt. but less than approximately 40 wt. Second gas diffusion layer for example may comprise a carbon cloth coated with a mixture of carbon powder and Teflon having a Teflon content of less than approximately 10 wt. but greater than approximately 2 wt. Current collectors and have small holes therein for passing fuel and air respectively.

Cell 2 illustrated at comprises membrane electrode assembly 2 MEA 2 disposed between cathode current collector and anode current collector . Cathode current collector is present on the cathode side of MEA 2 and is in electrical contact with the cathode not shown of MEA 2 anode current collector is present on the anode side of MEA 2 and is in electrical contact with the anode not shown of MEA 2 . First gas diffusion layer which is present therein for hydrogen evolution is disposed between MEA 2 and cathode current collector second gas diffusion layer which is present therein for fuel diffusion is disposed between MEA 2 and anode current collector . For illustration purposes only MEA 2 may be made with a proton exchange membrane such as Nafion 117 DuPont Co. having a catalyst layer coated on both its sides. First gas diffusion layer for example may comprise a carbon cloth coated with a mixture of carbon powder and Teflon having a Teflon content of greater than approximately 20 wt. but less than approximately 40 wt. and second gas diffusion layer for example may comprise a carbon cloth coated with a mixture of carbon powder and Teflon having a Teflon content of less than approximately 10 wt. but greater than approximately 2 wt. Current collectors and have small holes therein for passing hydrogen gas and fuel respectively.

In operation the cathode of Cell 1 positive electrode of Cell 1 is connected to the anode of Cell 2 positive electrode of Cell 2 and the anode of Cell 1 negative electrode of Cell 1 is connected to the cathode of Cell 2 negative electrode of Cell 2 . The electrodes are connected via cathode current collectors and anode current collectors present in each cell. This is illustrated in wherein the cathode of Cell 1 is connected to the anode of Cell 2 via cathode lead of the cathode current collector of Cell 1 and anode lead of the anode current collector of Cell 2 via electric wire . The anode of Cell 1 is connected to the cathode of Cell 2 via anode lead of the anode current collector of Cell 1 and the cathode lead of the cathode current collector of Cell 2 via electric wire . Metal conductive wires such as copper and the like may be used to connect the respective electrodes.

The apparatus may be modular therefore for ease in identifying the order in which these components are to be assembled relative component numbers may be assigned to each component as follows 1 air window as defined by housing may be identified as the first component 2 Cell 1 as the second component 3 first chamber as defined by first housing as the third component 4 Cell 2 as the fourth component and 5 second chamber as defined by second housing as the fifth component. The components are assembled in that order.

In use fuel solution is added to the fuel chamber via aperture and the electrodes of Cell 1 and Cell 2 connected as illustrated in . The fuel solution may be added either before or after the electrodes of Cell 1 and Cell 2 are connected. In the preferred embodiment fuel is added to fuel chamber prior to connecting the electrodes. Ambient air is supplied to the apparatus via the cathode of Cell 1 by spontaneous convection through for example a convection window . Cell 1 generates electric power which power is used by Cell 2 to continuously generate hydrogen gas by electrolysis of the fuel solution present in the fuel chamber . Hydrogen gas is continuously generated into the hydrogen chamber and the hydrogen gas generated exits through the aperture of hydrogen chamber for use thereof. Fuel oxidation occurs at the two anodes anode of Cell 1 and anode of Cell 2 . Oxygen reduction occurs at the cathode of Cell 1 to generate water and proton reduction occurs at the cathode of Cell 2 to generate hydrogen. The protons needed by the cathode of Cell 2 are generated from its anode by the reaction of fuel oxidation.

MEAs comprise an electrolyte membrane sandwiched between an anode and a cathode. MEA 1 and MEA 2 the MEA present in Cell 1 and Cell 2 respectively may be the same or different. For example they may each employ the same or different electrolyte membranes and or catalysts for the electrodes. MEA 1 may be a proton exchange membrane MEA PEM MEA or an anion exchange membrane MEA AEM MEA while MEA 2 may be a PEM MEA an AEM MEA or a bipolar MEA.

PEM MEAs employ proton exchange membranes such as for example purposes only Nafion membranes DuPont Co. XUS membranes Dow Chemical zirconium hydrogen phosphate modified Nafion silica and molybdophosphoric acid modified Nafion organic inorganic composite membranes and polybenzimidazole based membranes. Examples of other types of membrane materials that may be used and the process of converting these materials into suitable proton exchange membranes are set forth for example in U.S. Pat. No. 6 432 284 Narayanan et al. Hydrogen Generation by Electrolysis of Aqueous Organic Solutions issued 13 Aug. 2002 the teachings of which are incorporated herein by reference.

Although stable anion exchange membranes are not yet commercially available it is believed that AEM MEAs that employ stable anion exchange membranes such as those described in U.S. Pat. No. 8 436 057 Verkade et al. Anion Exchange Membrane issued 7 May 2013 U.S. Pat. No. 8 440 366 Fukuta et al. Solid Polymer Electrolyte Fuel Cell Membrane with Anion Exchange Membrane issued 14 May 2013 and U.S. Pat. No. 8 476 323 Martinent et al. Fluorocarbon Polymer Material and Method for Synthesizing issued 2 Jul. 2013 may be employed as well. The teachings of these United States patents are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

A bipolar MEA employs a bipolar electrolyte membrane which is a membrane having two layers one for cation exchange and the other for anion exchange. In MEA 2 the cation exchange layer would be in contact with the anode therein which faces towards the fuel chamber and the anion exchange layer would be in contact with the cathode therein which faces the hydrogen chamber. Applicants believe that the use of bipolar membrane in MEA 2 would enhance hydrogen production efficiency. Suitable bipolar electrolyte membranes include those taught for example in U.S. Pat. No. 7 344 801 Cheng et al. High Voltage Duel Electrolyte Electrochemical Power Sources issued 18 Mar. 2008 U.S. Pat. No. 6 596 137 Nago et al. Bipolar Membrane issued 22 Jul. 2003 and U.S. Pat. No. 6 924 318 Mischi et al. Method for Making a Bipolar Membrane and Use of Resulting Bipolar Membrane issued 2 Aug. 2005. The teachings of these patents are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

The thickness of the electrolyte membrane that may be employed in MEA 1 and MEA 2 may range for example from approximately 80 to approximately 300 micrometers and from approximately 25.4 to approximately 180 micrometers respectively. The invention however is not limited thereto. Of note is that more than one electrolyte membrane may be pressed together to vary the thickness of the electrolyte membrane employed. One having ordinary skill in the art with knowledge of the present invention will be able to select suitable electrolyte membranes that may be employed herein as well as suitable thicknesses to employ.

Catalysts for example purposes only such as platinum or a platinum ruthenium PtRu alloy coated directly onto carbon cloth and pressed to opposite sides of the electrolyte membrane may serve as the anode and cathode of the MEAs. One side of the MEA would serve as the anode and the other as the cathode. As an alternative the catalysts may be coated directly onto opposite sides of the electrolyte membrane and serve as the respective electrodes. Coating the catalyst directly onto the electrolyte membrane is preferred and provides a better interface with the membrane. Catalyst loading may range for example from approximately 1.0 mg cmto approximately 4.0 mg cm. Conventional methods of preparing MEAs and MEAs prepared using conventional methods may be employed herein.

Suitable anode and cathode current collectors that may be employed herein are those that provide for passage of fuel and gas therethrough and have a tab lead portion or the like to facilitate electrical connections. Anode and cathode current collectors may for example be perforated have holes therein see for example the current collectors illustrated and described in U.S. Pat. No. 8 383 290 Jiang et al. Fuel Cell Assembly issued 26 Feb. 2013 the teachings of which are incorporated herein by reference. Metals or metal alloys that are electrically conductive and resistant to chemical and electrochemical corrosion are suitable for use as the current collectors herein. Suitable materials that may be used include titanium stainless steel nickel gold coated stainless steel and the like.

Each of Cell 1 and Cell 2 has a first gas diffusion layer and a second gas diffusion layer. The first gas diffusion layer in each of Cell 1 and Cell 2 is disposed between the MEA and the cathode current collector therein illustrated as in Cell 1 and 208 in Cell 2. The second gas diffusion layer in each of Cell 1 and Cell 2 is disposed between the MEA and the anode current collector therein illustrated as in Cell 1 and in Cell 2. Cell 1 may optionally have an air filter disposed adjacent the cathode current collector on the side opposite the first gas diffusion layer illustrated as .

In operation oxidizing agent i.e. air enters the apparatus through Cell 1 while water is to be rejected. The first gas diffusion layer of Cell 1 and or the optional air filter of Cell 1 are present to facilitate this. Therefore the level of hydrophobicity of at least one of the first gas diffusion layer in Cell 1 or the air filter if present is such as to be suitable for diffusion of oxygen while rejecting diffusion of water therethrough. The first gas diffusion layer of Cell 2 is for diffusion of hydrogen while rejecting diffusion of water therefore the level of hydrophobicity for it is such as to be suitable for said purpose. The second gas diffusion layer in each cell is for the diffusion of fuel and water. The level of hydrophobicity for the second gas diffusion layers therefore is such as to facilitate diffusion of fuel and water. The gas diffusion layers and air filter employed herein all have some level of hydrophobicity. One having ordinary skill in the art will be able to identify suitable materials that may be employed for the gas diffusion layers and air filter herein.

Carbon cloth coated with carbon powder and Teflon a polytetrafluoroethylene by DuPont Co. for example may be used for the gas diffusion layers and the air filter. The hydrophobicity of such materials depends on the Teflon content therein. In some embodiments the first gas diffusion layers may comprise carbon cloth coated with a mixture of carbon powder and Teflon where the Teflon content is greater than approximately 20 wt. but less than approximately 40 wt. for diffusion of hydrogen and oxygen while rejecting diffusion of water i.e. E TEK Elat carbon cloth 2.20 and the second gas diffusion layer comprises carbon cloth coated with a mixture of carbon powder and Teflon where the Teflon content is less than approximately 10 wt. but greater than approximately 2 wt. for diffusion of fuel i.e. E TEK Elat carbon cloth 2.02 . In the preferred embodiment gas diffusion layers and may be carbon cloth coated with a mixture of carbon powder and Teflon having a Teflon content between approximately 2 and 10 and gas diffusion layers and and air filter may be carbon cloth coated with a mixture of carbon powder and Teflon having a Teflon content between approximately 20 and 40 . Carbon cloth coated with carbon powder and Teflon having specified properties are commercially available or may be prepared using conventional techniques. Selection of a suitable material to employ as the first gas diffusion layer second gas diffusion layer and air filter for the purpose intended herein is well within the skill of the art.

Fuels that may be employed in the present invention include for example purposes only methanol 2 propanol ethanol and other alcohols. Although the invention is described with reference to the use of alcohol as the fuel the invention is not so limited as other fuels that are water soluble may be suitable for use herein as well. Such other fuels include for example purposes only formic acid metal hydride glucose and hydrazine. Suitable concentrations of fuels that may be used in the apparatus and method described may range for example from approximately 0.4M to approximately 4.0M.

Cell 1 Overall Reaction CHOH 3 2O CO 2HO E 1.21V 3 Due to over potentials the actual open circuit voltage of Cell 1 is about 0.7V and operational at 0.4V.

Hydrogen generation rate using the apparatus of the present invention was determined using different concentrations of methanol as the fuel. The yield of fuel conversion to hydrogen was determined to range from approximately 30 to approximately 90 . Theoretically two molecules of methanol can generate three molecules of hydrogen. Without wishing to be bound by theory using the present invention 100 g of pure methanol can generate approximately 9.38 g or 105 liters of hydrogen gas.

Nafion 117 DuPont Co. was pretreated in boiling water with 3 HOfor two hours then boiled in 1 M HSOfor two hours. After each treatment it was thoroughly washed with water. It was then stored in water for membrane electrode assembly MEA preparation.

Platinum black Johnson Matthey Company and 5 Nafion solution Aldrich Company were purchased and used to prepare a catalyst ink having 90 by weight platinum black and 10 by weight dry Nafion. The catalyst ink was coated on 0.2 mm thick carbon cloth E Tek and dried at 80 C. Catalyst loading was 2 mg cm. The coated carbon cloth was used as the cathode for Cell 1 and Cell 2.

PtRu black Johnson Matthey Company and 5 Nafion solution Aldrich Company were purchased and used to prepare a catalyst ink containing 85 by weight PtRu and 15 by weight dry Nafion. The PtRu ink was coated on 0.2 mm thick carbon cloth E Tek and dried at 80 C. Catalyst loading was 2 mg cm. The PtRu coated carbon cloth was used for the anode for both Cell 1 and Cell 2.

The Pt coated carbon cloth and the PtRu coated carbon cloth prepared were hot pressed at 120 125 C. to the pretreated Nafion 117 to form the MEA for each cell. The area of each MEA prepared was 9 cm. A titanium sheet having a thickness of 0.5 mm was used as the cathode and anode current collectors. ELat V2.20 E TEK was used as the first gas diffusion layers ELat V2.02 E TEK was used as the second diffusion layers. The housings of the fuel storage chamber hydrogen storage chamber and air window were made with plastic materials. The fuel storage chamber and the hydrogen chamber each had a volume of approximately 8 ml. The components of the apparatus were assembled as shown in using screws. Teflon thin film was used as a gasket for sealing between the components.

Electrochemical evaluation of the apparatus was carried out using a conventional battery test station. All electrochemical measurements were conducted at 30 C. The fuel used in evaluation of the apparatus was 8 ml methanol at various concentrations 0.5M 1.0M 2.0M and 4.0M or 8 ml of 4.0M 2 propanol. Air was provided by air convection.

The performance of Cell 1 and Cell 2 in the apparatus was evaluated by discharging Cell 1 at 0.4V and charging Cell 2 at 0.4V. The two cells shared the same 8 ml 2M methanol present in the fuel chamber and operated at the same time. As shown in the discharge current of Cell 1 at 0.4V is approximately equal to the charge current of Cell 2 at 0.4V. Cell 1 has full capability to generate electric power to charge Cell 2. Shown is that Cell 2 will generate the same equivalent hydrogen as that of the consumed methanol in Cell 1 see Eq. 5 . Hydrogen is generated from the empty hydrogen storage chamber to which Cell 2 is disposed.

Experiments were conducted using the power free apparatus and different concentrations of methanol to generate hydrogen. Methanol was first supplied to the fuel chamber and the electrodes then connected. The cathode positive electrode of Cell 1 was connected with the anode positive electrode of Cell 2 and the anode negative electrode of Cell 1 was connected with the cathode negative electrode of Cell 2. Electric current between the cells was measured via a conventional battery test station as shown in .

Current time curves of the power free apparatus obtained by supplying 8 ml methanol having concentrations of 0.5M 1.0M 20M and 4.0M respectively are set forth in . Higher methanol concentration was found to provide increased operation time and generate greater amounts of hydrogen. The rate of hydrogen generation calculated using the data in is set forth in . The hydrogen generation rates for the various methanol concentrations used are almost the same at the plateau time range in about 50 55 ml hr.

Percent hydrogen yield calculated using the data in is set forth in . Shown is that the lower concentrations of methanol generated a greater percentage of hydrogen yield as compared to higher concentrations. The percent hydrogen yield decreased with increasing methanol concentration. Methanol concentration of 0.5M generated a hydrogen yield of approximately 90 . Based on these findings 100 g of pure methanol is expected to generate approximately 8.4 g of hydrogen.

The experiment of Example 2 was conducted using 8 ml of 4.0M 2 propanol as the fuel. shows a current time curve and the calculated hydrogen generation rate using 4.0M 2 propanol. The hydrogen generation rate using 4.0M 2 propanol was found to be greater than the rate using methanol. The hydrogen generation rate reached 130 ml hr and decreased with time due to fuel consumption.

The invention may be used to support hydrogen fuel cells lab scale hydrogen generation and the like. In particular it may be used as a low pressure hydrogen generating source for hydrogen air fuel cells. The invention provides an environmentally friendly hydrogen generating apparatus that does not use metal i.e. zinc and aluminum and acid to generate hydrogen gas. The present invention may further find application in providing low cost hydrogen for industrial application such as the synthesis of ammonia and hydrochloric acid and for providing hydrogen gas for glass shops for processing quartz parts and use as a reducing reagent for chemical pharmaceutical and catalyst synthesis.

The apparatus herein which generates low pressure hydrogen gas may be directly coupled with a hydrogen fuel cell and other equipment that require a source of low pressure hydrogen. Coupling may be accomplished for example via use of tubing wherein one end of the tubing is attached to the aperture of the hydrogen chamber from which hydrogen gas produced exits and the second end of the tubing is attached to for example a hydrogen fuel cell. One having ordinary skill in the art will be able to identify other suitable methods that may be used to couple the apparatus with equipment that require a source of low pressure hydrogen. Low pressure hydrogen gas generated using the apparatus may be pressurized for containerization and transportation using conventional methods well known to a person of ordinary skill in the art.

The apparatus operates at room temperature approximately 10 30 C. has an operating temperature of approximately 0 C. 100 C. generates relatively pure hydrogen gas displays high energy efficiency and results in a high hydrogen conversion percentage.

One having ordinary skill in the art will recognize that performance of the apparatus herein may be adjusted by varying the materials and properties of Cell 1 and Cell 2 herein. For example one may optimize the performance of the apparatus by varying catalyst type catalyst loading electrolyte membrane thickness the hydrophobicity of the gas diffusion layers i.e. via Teflon and carbon content hole distribution present in the current collectors and the pressure applied to the various component parts in making the apparatus herein. Of note is that MEA 1 and MEA 2 within the respective electrochemical cells may be the same or different. To optimize performance of the apparatus for example a thicker electrolyte membrane might be used in MEA 1 as compared to that used in MEA 2 so as to reduce fuel crossover into the air convection area.

While particular embodiments of the present invention have been shown and described it will be obvious to those skilled in the art that changes and modifications may be made without departing from this invention. Therefore it is intended that the claims herein are to include all such obvious changes and modifications as fall within the true spirit and scope of this invention.

