---

title: System and method for aggregating feedback
abstract: Systems, servers, methods, media, and programs for managing meeting ratings in a distributed system are provided. A feedback application generates a calendar invitation for a meeting to a meeting leader and meeting attendees, hosts the meeting, provides a request for feedback to the meeting attendees, generates a summary of the feedback or a recommendation for the meeting leader based on the feedback and provides the meeting leader with the summary of the feedback or the recommendation. The feedback application can also determine that the meeting leader is eligible for a reward.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09270711&OS=09270711&RS=09270711
owner: 
number: 09270711
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20130410
---
This application claims priority under 35 USC 119 e to U.S. Application No. 61 622 243 entitled Integrated Systems for Cultivating Consistent Culture of Quality Meetings and Meeting Leaders in a Distributed Processing Environment filed Apr. 10 2012 which is hereby incorporated by this reference.

The specification generally relates to a distributed method and system that provide for evaluating meetings and meeting leaders and to systems and methods for facilitating the collection of feedback from events via a shared online application.

It is often times desirable to evaluate meetings and or meeting leaders based on feedback solicited from attendees of a meeting or event. Such evaluation information is useful to meeting leaders in that they may review the information and learn what areas of the meeting were well received and what areas of the evaluated meeting were not. Further meeting leaders can review evaluations of their own meeting performance in order to learn from them and identify respective strengths and weaknesses.

The disclosure through one or more of its various aspects embodiments and or specific features or sub components provides various systems servers methods media and programs for interfacing compiled codes such as for example JavaScript scripts.

The disclosure generally relates to a distributed method and system that provides for evaluation of meetings and meeting leaders and to systems and methods for facilitating the collection of feedback from meeting attendees via a shared online application aggregating the feedback of the meeting attendees and providing the aggregated feedback to meeting leaders. In one embodiment the method includes generating a calendar invitation for a meeting to a meeting leader and meeting attendees hosting the meeting providing a request for feedback generating a summary of the feedback or a recommendation for the meeting leader based on the feedback and providing the meeting leader with the summary of the feedback or the recommendation.

According to the disclosure a computer implemented method is provided for managing meeting ratings in a distributed system that includes at least one memory and at least one processor. The method includes generating a meeting rating input area for presentation to a user. The meeting rating input area is integrated into an electronic scheduling application and is associated with a meeting on the electronic scheduling application of the user. A selection by the user is received in the meeting rating input area by the user in which the selection represents user feedback of the meeting. Then the user feedback of the meeting is aggregated with other feedback from at least one other party into aggregated feedback. Then the aggregated feedback is stored for presentation to a leader of the meeting.

According to another embodiment an online reward may be generated when the aggregated feedback meets or exceeds a predetermined threshold. In another aspect the online reward may include a post to a social media application. In still another aspect the method may also include generating questions in the meeting rating input area for the user to answer. In yet another aspect a rating field may be generated in the meeting rating input area that includes blank indicators such that the selection of any of the blank indicators by the user causes the selected indicator to change appearance. That is a greater number of indicators that are selected by the user provide an indication of a higher favorability rating for the meeting.

According to another embodiment a text input area is generated in which the user can indicate textual feedback regarding the event. The text input area may be displayed in response to the user selecting an option indicating a desire to input textual feedback. In yet another embodiment the electronic scheduling application is a calendar application. In still another embodiment the meeting rating input area is configured for display as a sidebar in the electronic scheduling application of the user. In another embodiment the event rating input is configured for display in a pane of the electronic scheduling application that includes information associated with the meeting. In one embodiment the information associated with the meeting includes a scheduled beginning and ending time for the meeting.

In another embodiment historical aggregated feedback information associated with multiple meetings of the leader is generated. In one embodiment the feedback is received anonymously. In yet another embodiment the aggregated feedback is generated for public distribution. In still another embodiment the feedback is generated for private distribution.

According to another embodiment of the disclosure a non transitory computer readable medium that stores a computer program to manage meeting ratings in a distributed system is provided. The program is executable by processor to generate a meeting rating input area for presentation to a user. The meeting rating input area is integrated into an electronic scheduling application and is associated with a meeting on the electronic scheduling application of the user. The program is executable by the processor to receive at least one selection in the meeting rating input area by the user. The selection includes user feedback of the meeting. The program is executable by the processor to aggregate the user feedback of the meeting with other feedback from at least one other party into aggregated feedback.

According to another embodiment the program is executable by the processor to generate an online reward when the aggregated feedback meets or exceeds a predetermined threshold. According to still another embodiment the online reward is a post to a social media application. The program is executable by the processor to generate multiple questions in the meeting rating input area for the user to answer. The program is executable by the processor to generate a rating field in the meeting rating input area including multiple blank indicators in which the selection on any one of the blank indicators by the user causes the selected indicator to change appearance. In this case the greater the number of indicators selected by the user indicates a higher favorability rating for the meeting.

According to yet another embodiment of the disclosure the program is executable by the processor to generate a text input area for the user to indicate textual feedback concerning the meeting. The text input area is configured for display in response to the user selecting an option indicating a desire to input textual feedback. According to another embodiment the electronic scheduling application includes a calendar application. According to still another embodiment the meeting rating input area is configured for display as a sidebar in the electronic scheduling application of the user. According to yet another embodiment the meeting rating input area is configured for display in a pane of the electronic scheduling application that includes information associated with the meeting. In one embodiment the information associated with the meeting includes a scheduled beginning and ending time for the meeting.

According to another embodiment of the disclosure the program is executable by the processor to generate historical aggregated feedback information associated with multiple meetings of the leader. According to another embodiment the user feedback is received anonymously. According to another embodiment the program is executable by the processor to generate aggregated feedback for public distribution. According to another embodiment the program is executable by the processor to generate aggregated feedback for private distribution.

According to another embodiment of the disclosure a computer implemented system for managing meeting ratings in a distributed computing environment is provided. The system includes at least one memory that stores meeting information of a user at least one processor that generates a meeting rating input area for presentation to a user in which the meeting rating input area is integrated into an electronic scheduling application and is associated with a meeting on the electronic scheduling application of the user. The at least one processor also receives at least one selection in the meeting rating input area by the user in which the selection includes user feedback of the meeting. The at least one processor also aggregates the user feedback of the meeting with other feedback from at least one other party into aggregated feedback and stores the aggregated feedback for presentation to a leader of the meeting. The at least one processor also generates multiple questions in the meeting rating input area for the user to answer and generates a rating field in the meeting rating input area including multiple blank indicators in which the selection of any one of the blank indicators by the user causes the selected indicator to change appearance. The greater the number of indicators selected by the user indicates a higher favorability rating for the meeting.

According to another embodiment the meeting rating input area is configured for display as a sidebar in the electronic scheduling application of the user. According to another embodiment the meeting rating input area is configured for display in a pane of the electronic scheduling application that includes information associated with the meeting. According to another embodiment of the disclosure the information associated with the meeting includes a scheduled beginning and ending time for the meeting. According to another embodiment the feedback is received anonymously. According to another embodiment the aggregated feedback is prepared for public distribution. According to another embodiment the aggregated feedback is prepared for private distribution.

The specification through one or more of its various aspects embodiments and or specific features or sub components is thus intended to bring out one or more of the advantages as specifically noted below.

In one embodiment the feedback application is operable on the server which is coupled to the network via signal line . The server can be a hardware server that includes a processor and a memory. The server sends and receives data to and from one or more of the user devices via the network .

The feedback application may be operable on the user device which is coupled to the network via signal line . The user device or portions thereof may be implemented as or incorporated into various devices such as a personal computer a tablet computer a set top box a personal digital assistant a mobile device a palmtop computer a laptop computer a desktop computer a communications device a wireless telephone a personal trusted device a web appliance or any other machine capable of executing a set of instructions sequential or otherwise that specify actions to be taken by that device. In some embodiments the v application acts in part as a thin client application that may be stored in part on the user device and in part on the server . For example the user device runs a calendar component and generates user interfaces for receiving user feedback. The server receives the user feedback from user devices and aggregates the feedback. In some embodiments the feedback application is a browser plug in.

As shown in the user device may include a computer display such as a liquid crystal display an organic light emitting diode a flat panel display a solid state display a cathode ray tube a plasma display or any other known display.

The user device may include at least one computer input device such as a keyboard a remote control device having a wireless keypad a microphone coupled to a speech recognition engine a camera such as a video camera or still camera a cursor control device or any combination thereof. Those skilled in the art appreciate that various embodiments of the user device may include multiple input devices. Moreover those skilled in the art further appreciate that the above listed exemplary input devices are not meant to be exhaustive and that the user device may include any additional or alternative input devices.

The user device may also include a medium reader and a network interface. Furthermore the user device may include any additional devices components parts peripherals hardware software or any combination thereof which are commonly known and understood as being included with or within a computer system such as but not limited to an output device. The output device may be but is not limited to a speaker an audio out a video out a remote control output or any combination thereof.

The network can be a conventional type wired or wireless and may have numerous different configurations including a star configuration token ring configuration or other configurations. The network may be but is not limited to a local area network a wide area network the Internet a telephony network or any other network commonly known and understood in the art. The network may also be coupled to or includes portions of a telecommunications network for sending data in a variety of different communication protocols. In some instances the network includes Bluetooth communication networks or a cellular communications network for sending and receiving data including via short messaging service SMS multimedia messaging service MMS hypertext transfer protocol HTTP direct data connection WAP email etc. The network is shown in as a wireless network. However those skilled in the art appreciate that the network may also be a wired network.

Of course those skilled in the art appreciate that the above listed components of the system are merely meant to be exemplary and are not intended to be exhaustive and or inclusive. Furthermore the examples of the components listed above are also meant to be exemplary and similarly are not meant to be exhaustive and or inclusive.

In the specification the terms event and meeting are used interchangeably. Similarly the terms scheduling application and calendar application are used interchangeably.

The processor includes an arithmetic logic unit a microprocessor a general purpose controller or some other processor array to perform computations and provide electronic display signals to a display device. The processor is coupled to the bus for communication with the other components via signal line . Processor processes data signals and may include various computing architectures including a complex instruction set computer CISC architecture a reduced instruction set computer RISC architecture or an architecture implementing a combination of instruction sets. Although includes a single processor multiple processors may be included. Other processors operating systems sensors displays and physical configurations are possible.

The memory stores instructions and or data that may be executed by the processor . The memory is coupled to the bus for communication with the other components via signal line . The instructions and or data may include code for performing the techniques described herein. The memory may be a dynamic random access memory DRAM device a static random access memory SRAM device flash memory or some other memory device. In some instances the memory also includes a non volatile memory or similar permanent storage device and media including a hard disk drive a floppy disk drive a CD ROM device a DVD ROM device a DVD RAM device a DVD RW device a flash memory device or some other mass storage device for storing information on a more permanent basis.

The communication unit transmits and receives data to and from at least one of the server and the user device depending upon where the electronic scheduling application may be stored. The communication unit is coupled to the bus via signal line . In some instances the communication unit includes a port for direct physical connection to the network or to another communication channel. For example the communication unit includes a USB SD CAT 5 or similar port for wired communication. In some instances the communication unit includes a wireless transceiver for exchanging data or other communication channels using one or more wireless communication methods including IEEE 802.11 IEEE 802.16 BLUETOOTH or another suitable wireless communication method.

In some instances the communication unit includes a cellular communications transceiver for sending and receiving data over a cellular communications network including via short messaging service SMS multimedia messaging service MMS hypertext transfer protocol HTTP direct data connection WAP e mail or another suitable type of electronic communication. In some instances the communication unit includes a wired port and a wireless transceiver. The communication unit also provides other conventional connections to the network for distribution of files and or media objects using standard network protocols including TCP IP HTTP HTTPS and SMTP etc.

The storage device can be a non transitory memory that stores data for providing the functionality described herein. The storage device may be a dynamic random access memory DRAM device a static random access memory SRAM device flash memory or some other memory devices. In some instances the storage device also includes a non volatile memory or similar permanent storage device and media including a hard disk drive a floppy disk drive a CD ROM device a DVD ROM device a DVD RAM device a DVD RW device a flash memory device or some other mass storage device for storing information on a more permanent basis.

The storage device stores calendar information for example the time for meeting the list of recipients etc. The storage device also stores the rating information. For example the storage device includes the rating information from all users that attended a meeting and provided feedback. The storage device also stores the aggregate feedback information. In the illustrated embodiment the storage device is communicatively coupled to the bus via signal line .

The feedback application comprises an electronic scheduling application calendar application a meeting engine a feedback engine a user interface module and a social media application.

The electronic scheduling engine can be software including routines for scheduling a meeting directly or working with a user device to schedule a meeting. In some embodiments the electronic scheduling engine can be a set of instructions executable by the processor to provide the functionality describes below for scheduling a meeting. In other embodiments the electronic scheduling engine can be stored in the memory of the computing device and can be accessible and executable by the processor .

The electronic scheduling engine instructs the user interface module to generate graphical data for displaying a user interface for configuring the meeting. The electronic scheduling engine receives user input and generates the details for the meeting. For example the electronic scheduling engine generates a list of attendees a time a location a title for the meeting etc. In one embodiment the electronic scheduling engine instructs the user interface module to generate calendar invitations for the meeting attendees. The electronic scheduling engine generates a calendar item in the user s calendar with the meeting details.

In one embodiment the user device includes a standalone calendar application and the user does not use the electronic scheduling engine to generate meetings. In this embodiment the electronic scheduling engine uses an application programming interface API to exchange information with the calendar application on the user device . The API is a specification that may be called or invoked by the various software components of the feedback application . The electronic scheduling engine can include a JavaScript file that communicates with the API to retrieve information about a user s upcoming meetings past meetings meeting attendees meeting leaders title identification information etc. This information may also be sent to the meeting engine and the feedback engine .

The meeting engine can be software including routines for hosting the meeting. In some embodiments the meeting engine can be a set of instructions executable by the processor to provide the functionality describes below for hosting a meeting. In other embodiments the meeting engine can be stored in the memory of the computing device and can be accessible and executable by the processor .

In one embodiment the meeting engine is a platform as a service PaaS cloud computing platform for hosting a web based meeting that is integrated with the meeting specifics generated by the electronic scheduling engine . The meeting engine hosts the meeting. The meeting engine may be configured to dynamically create or build the meeting. In embodiments where the meeting engine generates a video conference the meeting engine instructs the user interface module to generate a user interface for displaying meeting participants and meeting materials such as presentations. The dynamic creation may also include server side scripting database query look ups and or merging files into one or more user interfaces.

In one embodiment the user may already have access to a calendar application on their user device either locally in a client server setting or in a cloud based environment in which case the calendar application did not originate from the electronic scheduling engine . In this regard the meeting is loaded onto the user device by the meeting engine and is integrated with the user s calendar application. In particular in one embodiment the meeting is loaded by an external meeting application but may also be handled by the meeting engine . In an alternate embodiment the electronic scheduling engine may be loaded onto the user device from the meeting engine . Then the meeting application is loaded onto the user device by the meeting engine and is integrated with the user s calendar application. In any event once the integration takes place it will allow the user to provide feedback with regard to a meeting and or meeting leader. The meeting leader is a user that organizes the meeting. This user could be different from the presentor s . For example the meeting leader could be the head of a department that wants to measure how well the other people in the department contribute to a presentation.

In one embodiment the user device has both an independent calendar application and an independent meeting application. In these instances the electronic scheduling engine interacts with the user device to schedule the meeting. The electronic scheduling engine shares information between applications for example an email application a browser application a shared electronic document application or other applications within a distributed system. The meeting engine transmits a specification with the meeting information for example in the form of an XML document such as meeting.xml. Alternatively the specification could be based on an HTML CSS and or a script platform. Additionally other implementations may be employed including a stand alone application an applet a plug in module etc. for use in a user interface.

The XML document includes a link to a script such as JavaScript ECMA Script or other suitable alternative that is part of the meeting engine . An exemplary JavaScript source file as used herein is meeting gadgetjs. By virtue of the JavaScript the specification links to the internal meeting application to load and integrate the meeting application with a user interface generated by the user interface module . The user interface includes a pane in which the user is able to provide meeting feedback i.e. rate a meeting and or meeting leader. Further the pane includes scoring information in which a meeting leader can see how they were rated in a meeting see aggregated feedback how they have been rated over time and whether they have received any rewards or recognition for a meeting performance or performances.

The JavaScript communicates with and requests information from the feedback engine . The feedback engine stores meeting feedback from the user in the storage including an association for example an identifier between a particular meeting and feedback from the user as well as historical feedback information provided by the user and other users of the system. The feedback engine also stores aggregated feedback of users of the system scoring feedback information administrator preferences reward information etc.

In one embodiment the meeting engine is stored in part on the server and in part on the user device . The meeting engine on the user device can access information from the server using for example an application programming interface API with the JavaScript in order that access be restricted to entitled users for example users of a particular organization users having a particular domain name etc.

The feedback engine can be software including routines for managing user feedback from the meeting. In some embodiments the feedback engine can be a set of instructions executable by the processor to provide the functionality describes below for managing user feedback. In other embodiments the feedback engine can be stored in the memory of the computing device and can be accessible and executable by the processor .

The feedback engine may be any combination of servers document management systems databases and processors and may be implemented as software hardware and or firmware. The feedback engine instructs the user interface module to generate graphical data for displaying a user interface for collecting feedback during a meeting. In one embodiment where the feedback engine is not stored on the user device the feedback engine uses an extensible markup language XML document or suitable equivalent. The feedback engine can also include a link to a script for example a JavaScript source file. Additionally the feedback engine can communicate with components of the user device using an API. In one embodiment the API ensures that the user is not attempting to rate a meeting to which they were not invited did not attend etc. That is the feedback engine instructs the user interface module to generate a user interface for providing feedback such as ranking a particular meeting to users that were invited to the meeting and to which the users accepted the invitation to the meeting. In instances where the user interface module is stored on the user device the feedback engine sends instructions to the user interface module using the JavaScript and the specification. An overall flow of the processing with regard to is described below with reference to .

In one embodiment the feedback engine generates a request for feedback for the meeting attendees that the feedback engine keeps anonymous. In some embodiments the feedback engine stores the feedback for each user but anonymizes the data before transmitting it to the meeting leader. That is the meeting leader will see overall feedback or scores and or a breakdown of scores without any information identifying what attendees provided what feedback.

In one embodiment the feedback engine provides the meeting leader with the feedback in real time during the meeting. This can be helpful for example for letting the meeting leader know when the meeting is going poorly. However depending on the preferences of the meeting leader this information could be too distracting to receive in real time. As a result in another embodiment the feedback engine provides the feedback after the meeting.

In one embodiment the feedback engine time stamps the feedback so that feedback received during a meeting could be associated with a particular portion of the meeting. For example the feedback engine divides the meeting into segments and shows how various portions i.e. beginning middle end were rated by the attendees. This would be useful for instance in changing the presentation for future meetings. For instance the meeting leader learns to make the middle of the presentation more interesting if an abundance of low scores were received during the middle of the meeting. In a similar fashion the beginning or end of the meeting could also be changed based upon the feedback received.

In one embodiment the feedback engine prepares the feedback for publication by the social media application . The feedback engine can prepare the feedback for public and or private distribution i.e. publication . For example the feedback engine generates aggregated feedback about the meeting leader s performance that is anonymous. In another example the feedback engine can publish certain feedback from users. For example Bob said This is the best presentation Sam has ever given 

In embodiments where the user interface module is stored on the server the feedback engine communicates with the meeting engine to display a user interface for the user to provide feedback on the user device . For example the feedback engine and the meeting engine exchange information including user feedback ratings scores aggregated feedback ratings scores textual input of the users meeting schedules and web content that is displayed to the user. This exchange includes updating this information on the feedback engine and well as retrieving this information from the feedback engine as it is requested. Additionally the feedback engine stores user feedback ratings scores aggregated feedback ratings scores textual input of the users and meeting schedules in the storage . The feedback engine also performs computations on the feedback received from the user. For example the feedback engine aggregates the feedback by calculating average scores computes percentages of attendees who responded in a certain manner etc.

The user interface module can be software including routines for generating graphical data for displaying a user interface on the user device . In some embodiments the user interface module can be a set of instructions executable by the processor to provide the functionality describes below for generating a user interface. In other embodiments the user interface module can be stored in the memory of the computing device and can be accessible and executable by the processor .

In some embodiments the user interface module receives instructions from the electronic scheduling engine to generate graphical data for displaying calendar information. For example the user interface module generates calendar invitations a calendar that includes the meetings a user interface for configuring a calendar invitation etc. In some other embodiments the user interface module receives instructions from the meeting engine to generate graphical data for displaying the meeting. For example the user interface module generates graphical data for displaying a document that is used during the meeting.

The user interface module receives instructions from the feedback engine to generate graphical data for displaying a user interface on the user device for providing feedback. In one embodiment the user interface displayable on device may include a primary pane and at least one secondary pane i.e. a sidebar . The sidebar is typically but not necessarily and extension or adjunct of the primary pane and can appear as a side panel of the primary pane.

In one embodiment the user interface module generates a user interface for the meeting leader to configure the settings for the feedback engine . For example a meeting leader can specify the types of questions posed by the feedback engine to the meeting attendees. The meeting leader can also specify how the user wants to view the feedback. For example the meeting leader can specify whether the feedback is aggregated for the entire meeting divided into segments displayed at specified time periods etc. In one embodiment where the meeting includes multiple presenters the meeting leader could configure the feedback engine to aggregate feedback for each presenter for example based on the time that the feedback was received corresponding to the time that each person presented.

By incorporating the meeting feedback and scoring features into an application that includes an electronic scheduling feature and a meeting feature it is more likely that meeting attendees will participate in the rating process by providing feedback. That is users will not have to navigate to other applications in order to rate a meeting and or meeting leader. Further the feedback application is easy to use. That is by combining an electronic scheduling engine a meeting engine and a feedback engine together the user does not have to open another application send a text message send an email etc. in order to rate a meeting. Thus a user frequently checking their calendar or keeping their calendar active may readily avail themselves of the advantageous features described herein.

The social media application can be software including routines for registering a user and generating a social network. In some instances the social media application can be a set of instructions executable by the processor to provide the functionality described below for registering a user. In some other instances the social media application can be stored in the memory of the computing device and can be accessible and executable by the processor .

The social media application registers users generates a social graph and generates a social network for the users based on the social graph. For example the social media engine generates a social network where users can post content comment generate groups etc. Although the social media application is illustrated as being a component of the feedback application in some embodiments the social media application is a standalone application that could be stored on a separate server.

The social media application receives information from the feedback engine to be published in the social network. For example the feedback engine transmits a reward such as a notification that the meeting leader received a 90 approval rating in a meeting that the leader organized. The notification can be published as being associated with a user or anonymous. For example the social media application can identify a user in the social network that is associated with a particular comment subject to that user providing approval . In another example the notification is anonymous or generalized so that it represents results from aggregated feedback.

The electronic scheduling engine receives a specification from the server . The specification may be an XML document. The meeting engine identifies from the specification a link to a script file for example a JavaScript file on the server . The meeting engine loads a meeting interface. The meeting interface is surfaced to the user through the specification.

The electronic scheduling engine and the meeting engine receive instructions from the JavaScript file to communicate with the server . In doing so the electronic scheduling engine and the meeting engine retrieves data from the server . The data includes information regarding events feedback aggregated feedback user preferences administrator preferences etc. Additionally the server stores an association for example an identifier between a particular meeting and feedback. Thus when the feedback scores are aggregated and later presented they are linked with the appropriate meeting and meeting leader. In some embodiments the electronic scheduling engine and the meeting engine communicate with an API on the server to request and receive information concerning a user s upcoming events past events attendees of particular meetings titles of meetings meeting identification information e.g. identifier etc.

The user interface module generates graphical data for displaying a user interface to the user that includes the data. The displayed data includes the user s calendar information data concerning how many events the user has rated how many events the user has yet to rate the user s overall meeting score etc.

As shown in the sidebar includes a list of meetings that the user has attended or has yet to attend. The user may navigate about the application by selecting the meeting manager icon in pane . An overall meeting score 4 of the user is provided in pane . Pane indicates that the user has 13 events meetings that need to be rates. For example the user has attended but not yet rated meetings. Information concerning the details of meetings with Joe and Tom may be accessed by the user by selecting in panes and respectively. Pane indicates events that are owned by the user.

Pane includes stars which serve as indications of approval. Although stars are illustrated persons of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that other indicators can be used such as such as circles and squares numbers checkmarks etc. The user may elect to rate the meeting and or meeting leader according to a star rating system. That is the user may click use the user device to indicate one star for an extraordinarily poor performance two stars for a below average performance three stars for an average performance four stars for an above average performance and five stars for an excellent performance. While performance has been used it is noted that the feedback could also consider content clarity and or be based on an overall impression or other salient factors. Persons of ordinary skill in the other will also realize that other scales are possible such as from 1 10 1 3 1 100 etc. Further any suitable criteria for scoring may be established in advance. In addition to or in lieu of the aforementioned star rating system the user may provide feedback based on criteria determined by management or an administrator.

The rating fields shown in panes include certain criteria upon which the user may rank the meeting and or meeting presenter. Of course other criteria may be provided within the spirit of the invention other than what is explicitly shown.

In the illustrated example the user may provide additional types of feedback indicating whether the meeting was necessary by selecting by a known input method a box in pane . In this example the user selects on of the boxes but other methods are possible such as providing an x or a checkmark. The user may provide feedback indicating whether the meeting had a clear objective by selecting a box in pane . Similarly the user may provide feedback indicating whether the meeting had a useful agenda by selecting a box in pane . Similarly the user may provide feedback indicating whether the meeting started on time by selecting a box in pane .

Similar to the rating fields shown in panes include certain criteria upon which the user may rank the meeting and or meeting presenter. Of course other criteria may be provided within the spirit of the specification other than what is explicitly shown. In the example illustrated the user may provide feedback indicating whether the meeting was necessary by selecting by a known input method a box in pane . Similarly the user may provide feedback indicating whether the meeting had a clear objective by selecting a box in pane . The user may provide feedback indicating whether the meeting had a useful agenda by selecting a box in pane . The user may provide feedback indicating whether the meeting commenced on time by selecting a box in pane . Of course for any or all of the questions other suitable selectable answer choices such as a checkmark or an x may be used.

By clicking on the add comments button in pane or other suitable activator the user can optionally input free text regarding comments about the meeting or meeting leader as will be shown in below. That is selecting button will display a text input area to the user allowing the user to provide comments regarding the meeting and or meeting leader. It is noted that the add comments option is also possible within the display of . Further in one embodiment the text input area may always be displayed to the user and is not dependent upon user action to click the button .

The user device receives a meeting selection from the user. The selection of a meeting by a user can be done contemporaneously or can be done after the meeting has been completed. The user device displays a request for feedback for the selected meeting. In one embodiment the request for feedback is automatically displayed during the time when the meeting is scheduled. That is if a meeting is scheduled for 12 pm 2 30 pm then the request for feedback would be automatically displayed to the user during that time. According to one embodiment of the disclosure if a user has attended a meeting but has not provided a rating after a predetermined period of time e.g. 72 hours the user would receive a reminder via email text or other suitable notification method. At a rating system such as those shown in or is displayed. The rating system may be displayed within a calendar view of the user or within a separate sidebar depending upon user and or administrator preference.

The user device receives ratings from the user. For example the user enters ratings in a manner discussed above with respect to . The user device determines whether the user inputs text. For example if the user selects the add comments option then a text input area such as that shown in is displayed to the user. The user device receives text from the user. If the user does not select the add comments option after a predetermined period of time by the use of a known counter routine or selects an optional no text button then the process flows to .

Once the user is done providing feedback the user device transmits the feedback to the server where it is aggregated for later display to the meeting leader. In one example when the user has completed entering text the user can select the submit button .

The feedback engine instructs the user interface module to provide a request for feedback to the meeting attendees. For example the request is a user interface that includes a primary calendar pane and a sidebar such as the examples illustrated in . The feedback can include ratings yes no not applicable answers comments etc. such as the ones illustrated in . When the user has completed entering text the user can select the submit button . The feedback engine receives feedback from the meeting attendees. In one embodiment the user may instruct that the data entered by the user be sent to the feedback engine by clicking submit or another suitable indicator. Otherwise the data entered by the user may be automatically sent to the feedback engine. In any event the data entered by the user is sent to the feedback engine via the JavaScript where it is aggregated with all of the feedback received from other users with respect to the same meeting and or meeting leader.

The feedback engine aggregates feedback that includes a first score for the meeting or a second score for the meeting leader. For example the feedback engine aggregates an overall rating of the meeting ratings for each question in the request necessary clear objective useful agenda started on time etc. . The aggregation process includes taking data from the users and applying a process to create summary statistics based upon the user data. The aggregation of feedback of multiple users may be an arithmetic mean sum percentage of attendees selecting a particular answer option or other known mathematical computation based upon data entered by multiple users.

The feedback engine generates a summary of the feedback including the first score or the second score. For instance a meeting given by meeting leader Bob may have been given an average of three stars by the attendees that provided feedback. Thus a summary is generated for Bob and optionally for his supervisors to view. Over time Bob can monitor his progress in future meetings in order to assess his performances.

In one embodiment a more granular score breakdown is provided which is prepared by the feedback engine and sent via JavaScript to the meeting leader. As an example 60 of the meeting respondents indicated that Bob s meeting did not have a clear objective while 96 of the meeting respondents indicated that Bob s meeting started on time. In one embodiment the overall score and score breakdown are provided on the calendar application of the meeting leader. However the overall score and score breakdown may also be provided in other suitable manners e.g. sent by email uploaded to a password protected website etc.

The feedback engine generates a recommendation for the user based on the feedback. For example if the feedback includes a threshold percentage of users e.g. 25 50 etc. that stated that the meeting did not start on time the feedback engine generates a recommendation for starting the meeting on time. In another example the feedback engine generates a recommendation based on the feedback with a poorest e.g. lowest worst etc. score. For example if the meeting leader receives perfect marks on all aspects of the meeting except the necessity of having the meeting which receives 80 the feedback engine recommends that the meeting leader create meetings that are more necessary in the future. The feedback engine instructs the user interface module to generate graphical data for providing the meeting leader with the summary of the feedback or the recommendation.

In some embodiments the feedback may exceed a threshold where the meeting leader qualifies for a reward. The feedback engine determines that the meeting leader qualifies for a reward and provides the meeting leader with an indication as to the eligibility of a reward. The award may consist of an online award badge social recognition on a blog or post to social media etc. The determination of reward eligibility is based upon criteria established by a system administrator or other suitable method. For instance a reward may be provided when a meeting leader receives increasing scores in three consecutive meetings or when receiving scores above 90 .

Additionally 60 of respondents provided feedback that the meeting was necessary row 76 of respondents provided feedback that the meeting had a clear objective row 80 of respondents provided feedback that the meeting had a useful agenda row and 88 of the respondents provided feedback that the meeting started on time row . Of course not all attendees may answer the questions in which case the percentages provided are of percentages of those who answered the respective questions. In one embodiment all or at least some text input entered by users may be shown in the display as well. For example the feedback engine may generate a list of all of the text feedback received from user and include the textual feedback in the example display of .

Alternatively the feedback engine may using known text recognition software and systems including optical character recognition OCR extrapolate those textual comments containing the most frequently used words used by the users in the text feedback for a particular meeting and display those textual comments. For example if 75 of users providing textual feedback concerning a particular meeting used the term interesting in their textual comments then user textual comments using the word interesting would be displayed in the example display of . In one embodiment for example if the number of textual comments using the word interesting exceeded a predetermined amount then the feedback engine would select representative textual comments using the word interesting for display. The representative textual comments may be determined based upon word count number of textual comments etc.

In this example the feedback engine also instructed the user interface module to display a recommendation. The feedback engine selected the item with the lowest score to serve as the recommendation. In this case because 80 of the voters said that the meetings did not start on time the feedback engine recommends that the meeting leader be sure to start the meetings on time.

According to an embodiment of the non transitory computer readable media the non transitory computer readable medium includes an executable program for generating meeting ratings in a distributed system. The executable program when executed causes a computer to generate a meeting rating input area for presentation to a user. The meeting input rating area is integrated into an electronic scheduling application associated with a meeting on the electronic scheduling application of a user. The executable program further causes the computer to receive at least one selection in the meeting rating input area by the user in which the selection includes user feedback of the meeting. The executable program further causes the computer to aggregate user feedback of the meeting with other feedback from at least one other party into aggregated feedback. The executable program further causes the computer to store the aggregated feedback for presentation to a leader of the meeting.

In the above description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the specification. It will be apparent however to one skilled in the art that the invention can be practiced without these specific details. In other instances structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid obscuring the description. For example the present embodiment is described in one embodiment below primarily with reference to user interfaces and particular hardware. However the present embodiment applies to any type of computing device that can receive data and commands and any peripheral devices providing services.

Reference in the specification to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the description. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

Some portions of the detailed descriptions that follow are presented in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on data bits within a computer memory. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are the means used by those skilled in the data processing arts to most effectively convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. An algorithm is here and generally conceived to be a self consistent sequence of steps leading to a desired result. The steps are those requiring physical manipulations of physical quantities. Usually though not necessarily these quantities take the form of electrical or magnetic signals capable of being stored transferred combined compared and otherwise manipulated. It has proven convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to these signals as bits values elements symbols characters terms numbers or the like.

It should be borne in mind however that all of these and similar terms are to be associated with the appropriate physical quantities and are merely convenient labels applied to these quantities. Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the following discussion it is appreciated that throughout the description discussions utilizing terms including processing or computing or calculating or determining or displaying or the like refer to the action and processes of a computer system or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and transforms data represented as physical electronic quantities within the computer system s registers and memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the computer system memories or registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices.

The present embodiment of the specification also relates to an apparatus for performing the operations herein. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purposes or it may comprise a general purpose computer selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored in the computer. Such a computer program may be stored in a computer readable storage medium including but is not limited to any type of disk including floppy disks optical disks CD ROMs and magnetic disks read only memories ROMs random access memories RAMs EPROMs EEPROMs magnetic or optical cards flash memories including USB keys with non volatile memory or any type of media suitable for storing electronic instructions each coupled to a computer system bus.

The specification can take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment or an embodiment containing both hardware and software elements. In a preferred embodiment the specification is implemented in software which includes but is not limited to firmware resident software microcode etc.

Furthermore the description can take the form of a computer program product accessible from a computer usable or computer readable medium providing program code for use by or in connection with a computer or any instruction execution system. For the purposes of this description a computer usable or computer readable medium can be any apparatus that can contain store communicate propagate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device.

A data processing system suitable for storing and or executing program code will include at least one processor coupled directly or indirectly to memory elements through a system bus. The memory elements can include local memory employed during actual execution of the program code bulk storage and cache memories which provide temporary storage of at least some program code in order to reduce the number of times code must be retrieved from bulk storage during execution.

Input output or I O devices including but not limited to keyboards displays pointing devices etc. can be coupled to the system either directly or through intervening I O controllers.

Network adapters may also be coupled to the system to enable the data processing system to become coupled to other data processing systems or remote printers or storage devices through intervening private or public networks. Modems cable modem and Ethernet cards are just a few of the currently available types of network adapters.

Finally the algorithms and displays presented herein are not inherently related to any particular computer or other apparatus. Various general purpose systems may be used with programs in accordance with the teachings herein or it may prove convenient to construct more specialized apparatus to perform the required method steps. The required structure for a variety of these systems will appear from the description below. In addition the specification is not described with reference to any particular programming language. It will be appreciated that a variety of programming languages may be used to implement the teachings of the specification as described herein.

The foregoing description of the embodiments of the specification has been presented for the purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the specification to the precise form disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teaching. It is intended that the scope of the disclosure be limited not by this detailed description but rather by the claims of this application. As will be understood by those familiar with the art the specification may be embodied in other specific forms without departing from the spirit or essential characteristics thereof. Likewise the particular naming and division of the modules routines features attributes methodologies and other aspects are not mandatory or significant and the mechanisms that implement the specification or its features may have different names divisions and or formats. Furthermore as will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the relevant art the modules routines features attributes methodologies and other aspects of the disclosure can be implemented as software hardware firmware or any combination of the three. Also wherever a component an example of which is a module of the specification is implemented as software the component can be implemented as a standalone program as part of a larger program as a plurality of separate programs as a statically or dynamically linked library as a kernel loadable module as a device driver and or in every and any other way known now or in the future to those of ordinary skill in the art of computer programming. Additionally the disclosure is in no way limited to implementation in any specific programming language or for any specific operating system or environment. Accordingly the disclosure is intended to be illustrative but not limiting of the scope of the specification which is set forth in the following claims.

