---

title: Apparatus for coherent beam combining in an array of laser collimators
abstract: A method and apparatus for coherent beam combining in an array of laser beam collimators. The array of laser beam collimators includes an array of a plurality collimating lenses, each lens intercepting a respective one of a plurality of divergent laser beams. Each collimating lens is joined with adjacent collimating lenses such that an output aperture is formed with a common vertex of the adjacently joined collimating lenses. A concave mirror is positioned a distance from the common vertex for receiving a fraction of each of the collimated laser beams that passed through a portion of each of the collimating lenses that are adjacent to the common vertex, and then providing reflected fractional collimated laser beams. A sensor intercepts the reflected fractional collimated laser beams so as to provide a signal that is applied to synchronize the phase of each of the collimated laser beams.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09454004&OS=09454004&RS=09454004
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 09454004
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130927
---
This application claims benefit of U.S. provisional patent application Ser. No. 61 709 209 filed Oct. 3 2012 which is herein incorporated by reference.

Governmental interest The invention described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the U.S. Government.

Embodiments of the present invention generally relate to coherent laser beam combining in an array of laser beam collimators and more particularly to a method and apparatus for phase locking of a plurality of laser beams in the array.

One known Coherent Beam Combining system CBC is based on a sparse multi aperture array of fiber optic collimators. As a metric for external active control of phase locking a technique called the power in the bucket PIB is used. The PIB technique uses the intensity of the photons returned from a target for feedback control of phase shifters that control the phase of the laser beam sources. illustrates such a system.

The travel time of the return photons from the target is variable due to reliance of target reflection and atmospheric conditions which may cause time delays that prevent optimization of the phase locking performance.

Preliminary phase locking of the source beams can solve these drawbacks using for instance beam splitters in the train of output laser beams as shown in . Here the CBC system with external phase locking uses portions of beamlets split from the power train by means of beam splitters placed in a near field of the laser beam power train. The overlapping of these beamlet portions near the focal plane of a focusing lens yields constructive interference spots at least one of which is selected by use of a pinhole. A photo sensor placed behind the pinhole is used to indicate an intensity for the selected spot which intensity is used as a metric for active feedback control of the phase of the source beams. However use of beam splitters which are external to the fiber collimators are disadvantageous in that they can cause wave front power aberrations in the laser beams they are bulky and delicate elements make the system heavy and non reliable especially for mobile applications.

A method and apparatus for coherent laser beam combining in an array of laser beam collimators as shown in and or described in connection with at least one of the figures as set forth more completely in the claims.

These and other features and advantages of the present disclosure may be appreciated from a review of the following detailed description of the present disclosure along with the accompanying figures in which like reference numerals refer to like parts throughout.

Embodiments of the present invention generally relate to coherent laser beam combining in an array of laser beam collimators and more particularly to a method and apparatus for coherent beam combining in an array by providing an array of a plurality of laser beams and an array of a corresponding plurality of adjacently joined collimating lenses each lens intercepting a respective laser beam so as to provide at an output side of the each collimating lens a collimated laser beam wherein each collimating lens is joined with adjacent collimating lenses such that an output aperture is formed with a common vertex of the adjacently joined collimating lenses. A concave mirror positioned a distance from the common vertex so as to receive a fraction of each of the collimated laser beams that passed through a portion of each of the collimating lenses that are adjacent to the common vertex and reflect said fractional collimated laser beams. A sensor intercepts the reflected fractional collimated laser beams so as to provide a signal that is applied to synchronize the phase of each of the collimated laser beams.

In a further embodiment parasitic radiation of the divergent beams are intercepted by a mask positioned before the collimating lenses the mask comprising a combination of Partially Reflecting Partially Absorbing PR PA plates which dissipate the intercepted parasitic radiation by means of external cooling.

In a further embodiment an optical sensor measures the photons returned from the target and a motorized displacement of the optical sensor aligns the non common path differences of wave fronts of the laser beams to modulo 2 . In one embodiment the optical sensor comprises a pin hole and a photodiode detector. In an alternative embodiment a two dimensional imager comprises the optical sensor and the size and position of the imaging area is adjusted so as to simulate the pin hole the photodiode detector and an X Y movement of the photodiode detector.

In an alternative embodiment the mask elements are not used and instead the array of collimating lenses are positioned so as to intercept the Gaussian profile of the divergent laser beam so as to have a substantial fill factor such as 90 or greater and preferably 95 or greater. In such an embodiment the parasitic radiation passing through the adjacent lenses is shielded by use of a heat dissipating tube surrounding the output aperture of the array and having a diameter slightly larger than output aperture of array.

Various embodiments of a method and apparatus for coherent laser beam combining in an array of laser beam collimators are described. In the following detailed description numerous specific details are set forth to provide a thorough understanding of claimed subject matter. However it will be understood by those skilled in the art that claimed subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances methods apparatuses or systems that would be known by one of ordinary skill have not been described in detail so as not to obscure claimed subject matter.

Some portions of the detailed description that follow are presented in terms of algorithms or symbolic representations of operations on binary digital signals stored within a memory of a specific apparatus or special purpose computing device or platform. In the context of this particular specification the term specific apparatus or the like includes a general purpose computer once it is programmed to perform particular functions pursuant to instructions from program software. Algorithmic descriptions or symbolic representations are examples of techniques used by those of ordinary skill in the signal processing or related arts to convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. An algorithm is here and is generally considered to be a self consistent sequence of operations or similar signal processing leading to a desired result. In this context operations or processing involve physical manipulation of physical quantities. Typically although not necessarily such quantities may take the form of electrical or magnetic signals capable of being stored transferred combined compared or otherwise manipulated. It has proven convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to such signals as bits data values elements symbols characters terms numbers numerals or the like. It should be understood however that all of these or similar terms are to be associated with appropriate physical quantities and are merely convenient labels. Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the following discussion it is appreciated that throughout this specification discussions utilizing terms such as processing computing calculating determining or the like refer to actions or processes of a specific apparatus such as a special purpose computer or a similar special purpose electronic computing device. In the context of this specification therefore a special purpose computer or a similar special purpose electronic computing device is capable of manipulating or transforming signals typically represented as physical electronic or magnetic quantities within memories registers or other information storage devices transmission devices or display devices of the special purpose computer or similar special purpose electronic computing device.

Three neighbor lasers are shown as illustrative of a scalable unit in an array having a hexagon arrangement of sub apertures. The scalable unit arrangement includes fiber lasers and and output collimator lenses and arranged so as to have in combination with mask clipping elements an approximately 100 fill factor thereby avoiding parasitic propagation of periphery areas of the beams. A vertex comprises an opening formed at the corners of the three adjacent lens and . The opening has a characteristic size d. A focusing micro lens having a diameter d is positioned in opening . In this embodiment a clipping mask is illustrated as useful for clipping the divergent beam supplied by laser to a shape which matches the shape of the corresponding collimator lens resulting in substantially 100 filling of lens . In practice a mask would be provided for each lens . A spherical concave mirror having a diameter D d is positioned outside of the array and in alignment with the opening in the vertex. A key part of these embodiments are sub areas C C C of lenses near the vertex which provide three collimated sub beams C C C sub beam C is not shown . Hereinafter the collimated sub beams C C C are also referred to as fractional beams C C and C. A spherical micro mirror re directs the sub beams C C and C to a sensor for developing a signal that is applied to synchronize the phase of each of the collimated laser beams. In this embodiment the micro mirror re directs the sub beams C C and C to the back of array via a focusing micro lens .

Micro mirror and micro lens essentially form a telescope that provides overlapping of sub beams C C C in between lasers preferably on a focal plane positioned behind the lasers and on which focal plane an interference pattern of sub beams C C and C occurs. In this embodiment a pinhole photodetector assembly is positioned for selecting the constructive interference spot of the interference pattern and providing a signal to control a processor such pinhole photodetector assembly and processors are well known to those of ordinary skill in this art which synchronizes phase locks the phases of the sources for the three output beams beam is not shown .

Note in an alternative embodiment to the arrangement such as shown in the sub beams C C and C are re directed outside of the array instead of through it.

It is also noted that in a further alternative embodiment to the arrangement because of the small angle between re directed sub beams C C and C small in comparison to the large angle between the reflected beamlets shown in the arrangement sensor could be a synthetic pinhole photodiode that is a plurality of photosensors formed electronically by computer control from an array of photosensitive pixels such as an array of CCD CMOS target micro bolometer etc elements . The shape and size of plurality of photosensitive elements that simulate the pinhole photodiode can be adjusted by the computer to optimize the performance of the phase locking. In the described embodiments having small angles between the re directed sub beams as compared with the large angles in embodiments such as shown by the characteristic size of the interference spot at the same dimensions of an array such as the overall dimensions of the array shown in the arrangement can be 10 times larger than in case of the arrangement. Thus instead of requiring use of a pinhole having a diameter as small as 10 15 microns the synthetic pinhole photodiode plurality of photosensors having an overall diameter 100 150 microns can be formed using a CCD target for example with a modest pixel size of 15 20 microns which allows for reliable computer control of the position of the selected plurality of elements. Such computer control of the plurality thereby provides for the electronic adjustment of the non common phase difference to modulo 2 between adjacent sub apertures. This particular alternative is not specifically shown in the Figures and element is representative thereof.

Thus as described above the output aperture in these embodiments are composed from densely packed hexagon lenses where lenses and are illustrative of a scalable unit with almost 100 fill factor. In an alternative embodiment square lenses can be used for rectangular packing of beamlets however the hexagon lenses and corresponding honeycomb arrangement of beamlets has better CBC performance. The collimating lenses can be attached together on a transparent superstate as described below in conjunction with or attached to each other via adhesion such as using glue or other bonding techniques along their respective edges.

The summarized output beam leaving the array is formed with densely packed collimated beams each having a hexagonal cross section.

The set of concave micro mirrors is placed outside of the output aperture with the center of each micro mirror coinciding with the common vertex of three adjacent collimator lenses such as lenses and . In a scaled arrangement the multiple micro mirrors can be attached to a second transparent superstate as also described below in conjunction with .

The corners of these of the three lenses and are cut so as to provide the opening d of vertex to be significantly less than the diameter D of micro mirror .

The micro lens is placed into the opening at a position so as to obtain the highest possible fill factor. In the illustrated embodiment the micro lens is considered as a round concave of convex spherical lens.

The micro mirror intercepts the fractions sub beams of the three collimated beams C C and C in the vicinity of the hole and reflects these three sub beams back to the micro lens.

The micro mirror is coupled optically with the micro lens and forms a telescopic system that provides focusing of the three sub beams behind the array preferably behind the laser sources. At the plane where these three sub beams are overlapping the constructive interference is formed.

The pinhole of the pinhole photodetector assembly selects the spot of the interference pattern and the photodetector behind of pinhole provides the signal for phase locking of the three output beams.

The pinhole photodetector assembly is placed on a movable platform. X Y displacement manual or computerized of the movable platform provides the control of the non common path difference between wave fronts of three sub apertures to tune this difference to modulo 2 .

In an embodiment having the fore mentioned synthetic pinhole photodiode the plurality of photosensor elements are selected by computer control so as to electronically move this plurality and thereby simulate the pinhole and fore noted X Y displacement so as to match the non common phase difference between the adjacent sub apertures to modulo 2 .

The mask positioned in between the laser sources and the output lenses provides the clipping of periphery areas of the respective divergent beams so as to avoid parasitic illumination of neighbor lenses. This mask intercepts and dissipates the parasitic power in these intercepted beam tails.

Loop mirror micro lens pinhole photodetector assembly provide the input signal for phase locking of beams beam not shown through the use of the phase shifter processor .

Loop photo receiver receives the photons returned by the target for providing the input for control of the X Y position of the pinhole photodetector assembly for optimization of non common path differences between wave fronts of beams and .

A mask assembly comprises nodes and corresponding to one embodiment of the masks of . Node comprises partly reflecting partly absorbing mirrors for intercepting periphery areas of the respective divergent beams from fiber lasers and . Part of the intercepted power is absorbed in node and part of the power is reflected to node which includes radiation traps . Nodes and are supplied with inside channels not shown which includes circulating gas or liquid for conducting and disposing the parasite heat generated by the trapping and reflection of the radiation to an area outside of the array not shown .

In a test bed for investigating the performance of coherent beam combining for arrays up to 19 channels the distance between output sub apertures was 37 mm. In an embodiment for 100 fill factor the lenses also had a hexagon shape with a size of 37 mm. The mode field diameter of the operating fiber lasers was about 7 m and the optimum focal length of lenses was 174 mm.

Evaluation of power conditions for micro mirror embodiments is now described in conjunction with illustrating mirror and microlens . The full power incident on a micro mirror having a diameter D 8 mm was determined at distance L 174 mm to be equal to 0.16 mW. If the effective diameter d of the vertex shown in is equal to 4 mm the effective power on the mirror is reduced by 0.04 mW and is equal 0.16 0.04 0.12 mW. this is a small fraction of total power 19 mW 0.12 mW 19 mW 0.6 . At a power of 1 kW per fiber laser channel the full power at the mirror will be 3 kW. The fraction of power which will hit the micro mirror can be estimated as 19 W which power needs to be dissipated for example by cooling of the micro mirror.

Considering a small decrease of the diameter of the micro mirror to D 6 mm the intercepted power decreases to about two times less and is estimated to be as low as 9 W. Considering a gold reflective coating the absorbed power will be only about 2 that is heating with about 200 mW is expected which can be easily handled with a modest cooling of the micro mirror.

Another solution would be to use a semitransparent reflecting coating for the micro mirrors for instance a dielectric mirror having a small reflecting coefficient or a very thin semi transparent metal film. The excess radiation will pass though the mirror and will be dissipated outside of the array. The dissipated radiation of the passed beam will be on the order of units of Watt and is not focused or collimated and is not a significant threat to ambient at distances of tens of meters from array. For security a simple blending tube positioned around the power beam will totally solve the problem of this parasitic scattering.

The foregoing description for purpose of explanation has been described with reference to specific embodiments. However the illustrative discussions above are not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in view of the above teachings as noted several places in the above descriptions. The embodiments were chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the present disclosure and its practical applications to thereby enable others skilled in the art to best utilize the invention and various embodiments with various modifications as may be suited to the particular use contemplated.

The methods described herein may be implemented in software hardware or a combination thereof in different embodiments. In addition the order of methods may be changed and various elements may be added reordered combined omitted modified etc. All examples described herein are presented in a non limiting manner. Various modifications and changes may be made as would be obvious to a person skilled in the art having benefit of this disclosure. Realizations in accordance with embodiments have been described in the context of particular embodiments. These embodiments are meant to be illustrative and not limiting. Many variations modifications additions and improvements are possible. Accordingly plural instances may be provided for components described herein as a single instance. Boundaries between various components operations and data stores are somewhat arbitrary and particular operations are illustrated in the context of specific illustrative configurations. Other allocations of functionality are envisioned and may fall within the scope of claims that follow. Finally structures and functionality presented as discrete components in the example configurations may be implemented as a combined structure or component. These and other variations modifications additions and improvements may fall within the scope of embodiments as defined in the claims that follow.

Various elements devices modules and circuits are described above in associated with their respective functions. These elements devices modules and circuits are considered means for performing their respective functions as described herein. While the foregoing is directed to embodiments of the present invention other and further embodiments of the invention may be devised without departing from the basic scope thereof and the scope thereof is determined by the claims that follow.

