---

title: Using metaphors to present concepts across different intellectual domains
abstract: A method, system, and computer program product for generating content of a topic for an intended audience are described. Topic information regarding a topic to be presented to an intended audience is obtained, as well as knowledge information regarding the intended audience. One or more metaphors relating to the topic and understood by the intended audience can be determined based at least in part on the topic information and the knowledge information. Content can be generated for the topic information based on a comparative analysis of the topic information to at least one of the one or more metaphors.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09367592&OS=09367592&RS=09367592
owner: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION
number: 09367592
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131108
---
This patent application is a continuation of copending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 747 702 filed on Jan. 23 2013 and entitled USING METAPHORS TO PRESENT CONCEPTS ACROSS DIFFERENT INTELLECUTAL DOMAINS the entirety of which is hereby incorporated by reference as if set forth verbatim herein and relied upon for all purposes.

In many scenarios a person may have difficulty explaining or presenting a concept to another person where the other person is not skilled on the topic or otherwise possesses a different knowledge base. Visual presentation tools for computers can assist in explaining and presenting concepts but such tools alone may not allow for generating presentations that effectively bridge knowledge gaps between the presenter and intended audience.

Some example embodiments may provide a method for generating content of a topic for an intended audience. The method can include obtaining topic information regarding a topic to be presented to an intended audience and obtaining knowledge information regarding the intended audience. The method can further include determining one or more metaphors relating to the topic and potentially understood by the intended audience based at least in part on the topic information and the knowledge information and generating content for the topic information based on a comparative analysis of the topic information to at least one of the one or more metaphors.

Additional aspects relate to a system for generating content of a topic for an intended audience. The system can include a metaphor determining module configured to select one or more metaphors based at least in part on topic information and knowledge domain information regarding an intended audience a term correlating module configured to determine one or more terms related to at least one metaphor of the one or more metaphors that correlate to one or more terms of the topic information and a content generating module configured to prepare content for the topic information targeted to the intended audience based at least in part on the one or more terms related to the metaphor.

Other aspects relate to a computer program product comprising a computer readable storage medium having computer executable program code instructions stored therein. The computer executable program code instructions include program code instructions for obtaining topic information regarding a topic to be presented to an intended audience obtaining knowledge information regarding the intended audience determining one or more metaphors relating to the topic and understood by the intended audience based at least in part on the topic information and the knowledge information and generating content for the topic information based on a comparative analysis of the topic information to at least one of the one or more metaphors.

Some example embodiments now will be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which some but not all example embodiments are shown. Indeed the examples described and pictured herein should not be construed as being limiting as to the scope applicability or configuration of the present disclosure. Rather these example embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will satisfy applicable legal requirements. Like reference numerals refer to like elements throughout.

People may sometimes find it hard to explain a concept to others having a different knowledge domain or background even though there may be some overlapping concepts or similarities between their respective domains. For example it may be difficult for a computer savvy user to example email to a novice user however since there are certain similarities between an email system and postal mail of which the novice user may have knowledge the user can relate terms of the email system to postal mail in effect using postal mail as a metaphor in an effort to explain the concept. For example the term email can correlate to the term mail the term inbox can correlate to the term mailbox the terms subject and recipients can correlate to the term envelope the term HUB or server can correlate to the term post office etc. Thus the presenter can substitute these terms or otherwise augment an explanation of email using these terms to assist the novice user in understanding the concept of email.

Various examples described herein present aspects for determining a metaphor associated with a topic for presenting and a knowledge domain of an intended audience. Using the metaphor various terms can be correlated across domains and used in an effort to explain or present the topic to the intended audience. Selection of the metaphor can be based on various inputs specified by a user for example such as information regarding the topic for presentation information regarding the intended audience and or information regarding the knowledge domain of the intended audience etc. One or more metaphors can be determined based on the information by searching repositories lists of previous metaphors used for the topic or a similar topic preferred terminologies or types of metaphors preferred by the presenter etc. The metaphors can be presented for selection in one example and in any case at least one of the metaphors is used to determine correlations between terms of the topic and terms understood by the intended audience. The correlated terms are then used to generate a presentation or other explanation of the topic for the intended audience. In one example members of the intended audience and or the presenter can be polled to determine whether the presentation was effective in explaining the topic e.g. and or whether the selected metaphor allowed for understanding the topic and responses to the polling can be used in determining whether to recommend the metaphor in future presentations on the topic and or for other topics to intended audiences having a similar knowledge domain.

According to an example metaphor determining module can obtain input data regarding a topic for presenting to an intended audience and or additional input data regarding a knowledge domain of the intended audience. In one example metaphor determining module may receive the input data regarding the topic via interface module which presents an interface prompting for the information. Interface module can provide an interface that prompts for the topic itself information regarding the topic such as certain sub topics or related terms or concepts to be presented to the intended audience etc. In addition metaphor determining module may receive the input data regarding the knowledge domain of the intended audience by providing an interface explicitly requesting or otherwise allowing input of knowledge domain parameters such as an age reading level knowledge level regarding the topic subject expertise area s or business area s and or the like. In another example metaphor determining module may receive or infer such parameters in a survey or questionnaire presented to the intended audience by interface module . For example this can be substantially any type of questionnaire such as to assess IQ generation lifestyle preferences etc. of the member of the intended audience and the interface module can present the questionnaire to the member based on subscribing to or otherwise interacting with system in response to an indicated desired to present the topic to the intended audience etc. In any case the interface module may obtain the topic information and information regarding the knowledge domain of the intended audience. Whether by interface module or otherwise metaphor determining module can obtain sufficient information to allow for selecting one or more metaphors that facilitate explaining the topic to the intended audience based on the knowledge domain of the intended audience.

In an example metaphor determining module can use the input data regarding the topic and knowledge domain of the intended audience to search repository for one or more such metaphors associated with both the topic and the knowledge domain. Metaphor determining module can use various methods of search and or correlation to determine the appropriate metaphor s from repository such as web based search engines to locate phrases documents or other information associating the metaphors to the topic information and or knowledge domain mechanisms that mine and or collect information e.g. topic detection and tracking TDT tasks such as KeyGraph etc. text analysis statistical data pattern processing comparative studies image comparison and or substantially any mechanism that can be used to map metaphors to concepts. Thus repository can include the World Wide Web one or more pre populated databases and or substantially any repository. Metaphor determining module can further rank metaphors based on relevancy to the topic information knowledge domain etc. and or based on an effectiveness rating that can be assigned to the metaphor for the topic or other topics as described herein in one example.

In addition in an example metaphor determining module can use the input data to determine a relationship or other commonality between the topic and the knowledge domain such as one or more different types of terminologies familiar in the knowledge domain that may be used to explain the topic. Metaphor determining module can similarly acquire the types of terminologies based at least in part on searching mining or otherwise leveraging repository to obtain the terminologies based on information regarding the knowledge domain of the intended audience and or topic information. In this example the metaphor determining module can present the different types of terminologies using interface module to obtain further input regarding which type of terminology is to be used in determining the appropriate metaphor s . Thus metaphor determining module can further utilize input data received regarding the different types of terminologies in obtaining the one or more metaphors from repository .

In one example metaphor determining module determines the one or more metaphors and provides the metaphor s to term correlating module . In another example metaphor determining module can present the one or more metaphors using interface module for approval and or selection. In this example metaphor determining module can provide conceptual linguistic logical metonymic and or other metaphors related to the topic and or knowledge domain of the intended audience to interface module . Interface module can display the metaphors for approval or selection by a user or other entity using the interface. In this example interface module can provide metaphor determining module with the approved or selected metaphor s and the metaphor determining module communicates the approved or selected metaphor s to term correlating module . Where one or more of the metaphors are rejected in one example the metaphor determining module can determine additional metaphors for presenting via interface module .

Thus in an example term correlating module can receive the one or more metaphors from metaphor determining module . In addition metaphor determining module and or interface module can provide at least some of the input data to term correlating module as well such as certain topic information to be presented. In this regard term correlating module can perform a comparative analysis between the topic information and the metaphor s from which content generating module can generate the content. In one example term correlating module performs the comparative analysis at least in part by associating certain terms of the topic with terms related to the one or more metaphors. Term correlating module in various examples can determine such associations based on preconfigured mappings of terms between topics and metaphors e.g. which can have associated data to allow for ranking of the terms such as an effectiveness rating etc. inferences regarding relationships between the terms of the topic information and metaphors e.g. based on analysis of search results or other data mining based on terms in the topic information and terms of the metaphor associations specified as part of a previous association between the topic and the metaphor and or the topic with a previous metaphor having a predetermined inferred etc. association with the current metaphor and or the like as described further in examples presented herein.

Content generating module for example can create a presentation explanation or other content regarding the topic that is targeted for the intended audience using the correlated terms. In this example content generating module generates the content to explain the concept by using terms associated with the metaphor in place of or as a supplement to terms of the topic. The content can include substantially any graphical textual audible etc. content and content generating module can generate the content of a specific type based on a configured preference for example. In additional examples the content can include other visual representations such as an augmented reality or other multi dimensional presentation.

In one example content generating module can provide output of the content to interface module to allow for modification of the content e.g. by a presenter . In this example content generating module may determine such modifications and can accordingly update the generated content and or associations between the terms of the topic and terms of the metaphor for subsequent content generation e.g. which can be stored in repository or other data store used by term correlating module metaphor determining module etc. . The generated content can be presented to the intended audience to explain the topic. This can include a computerized graphical presentation which the content generating module can have generated an explanation which can be a document generated by the content generating module or other content such as an oration given by the presenter based on visual cues generated by the content generating module etc. In addition for example content generating module can format the content based on a formatting preference delivery preference etc. specified by a user e.g. via interface module .

Moreover in an example polling module can obtain data regarding efficacy of the content. This can include a survey or poll solicited to the presenter of the topic the intended audience etc. regarding the quality of the content or related materials a quiz on the topic for the intended audience and or the like. Polling module can provide the results to the repository or can otherwise modify associations between the topic information and the metaphor between the terms of the topic and the correlated terms of the metaphor and or the like based on the results of the poll. For example where members of the intended audience respond to the poll that a certain term was not well explained or understood polling module can provide this information to the repository e.g. as an indication that the metaphor or term is not effective or has a certain effectiveness rating and metaphor determining module can rank metaphors or term correlating module can determine a set of terms to utilize that may not include the term. Moreover whether or not polling module is present selection or non selection of certain metaphors and or terms by a user e.g. via interface module as described can similarly result in metaphor determining module term correlating module etc. updating related parameters in the repository such as providing efficacy information e.g. effectiveness rating for the metaphors and or terms associated with the topic.

In one specific example a presenter is to present a topic regarding molecular structures in organic chemistry to an elementary school class. In this example interface module can generate and or present an interface requesting topic information information regarding an intended audience etc. The presenter can use the interface to enter information regarding the topic of molecular structures in organic chemistry and information specifying the intended audience as school age elementary students. In one example interface module can infer or otherwise prompt for information regarding the students such as the sorts of toys they play with their study environment their class schedule etc. This information can be obtained via an interface inferred based on information previously received for similarly aged children etc. Interface module can provide the topic information and information regarding the audience to metaphor determining module .

Metaphor determining module may search repository for a commonality between molecular structures or more generally chemical engineering and terminologies within the knowledge domain of school age elementary students. In an example as described metaphor determining module may first provide information regarding types of terminologies to search via interface module e.g. toys school subjects TV shows etc. and can receive a selection of one or more types of terminologies via interface module e.g. toys in this example . Thus metaphor determining module can first search repository for concepts related to molecular structures such as molecules elements chemical bonds etc. and can then search for commonality between the concepts and type of terminologies e.g. toys understood by the school age elementary students. For example metaphor determining module may encounter e.g. in a web search or other data mining a phrase the chemical bond can be represented by Lego building blocks. 

In this example metaphor determining module can determine that Lego building blocks are understood by school age elementary students and can thus determine Lego building blocks as one of one or more possible metaphors for explaining chemical bonds. As described metaphor determining module can use this metaphor for determining correlated terms between molecular structures and Lego building blocks and or can present the metaphor to the presenter e.g. via interface module for approval. In any case where metaphor determining module associates the Lego building block metaphor with molecular structures it can provide the metaphor to term correlating module . Term correlating module can determine correlations between terms used to describe chemical bonds and terms used in Lego building blocks. As described this can be based on information in repository which can include predefined mappings between terms e.g. acquired from similar phrases from a similar source as the phrase relating chemical bonds to Lego building blocks inferred associations based on information regarding Lego building blocks e.g. such as description of Lego building block assembly and or other topics for which Lego building blocks are a metaphor etc.

In this specific example term correlating module can correlate the topic term element and or chemical e.g. referring to periodic elements such as carbon hydrogen etc. with Lego blocks and topic term bond with a connection between Lego blocks. Using these correlated terms content generating module can create a presentation explanation etc. of molecular structure using terms of Lego building block assembly in place of or as a way to define the terms of the molecular structure topic. In one example content generating module can generate a guide for explaining molecular structure for the presenter which can specify the correlated terms and or how an association can be expressed using the terms of the metaphor. In another example term correlating module can use image comparison between an image of a molecular bond and an image of a Lego building block assembly to infer an association between elements and Lego blocks and between bonds and Lego block connections etc. In this example content generating module can display images of molecular structures and Lego building block assemblies showing pictorial associations between the items correlated by term correlating module . It is to be appreciated that content generating module can generate the content based on multiple parameters such as a provided or located presentation for molecular structure which content generating module can modify based on the correlated terms content located e.g. in repository regarding using the metaphor to explain the topic and or the like.

Various example topical explanations are possible. In another specific example metaphor determining module can determine a metaphor for explaining topics that are closely related but use slightly different terminology. In one such example the topic information can relate to one software package while the knowledge domain of the intended audience relates to another software package. In this example metaphor determining module determines a metaphor as the knowledge domain software package and term correlating module can correlate the terms of the topic software package with the terms of the metaphor. For instance term correlating module may associate a feature Check In Files of a topic source control software package with functionality called Submit Files in a knowledge domain source control software package. In this regard content generating module can generate a manual presentation quick reference sheet etc. for the knowledge domain source control software package based on the topic source control software package and the correlated terms with the metaphor as described. In one specific example term correlating module can determine correlation between terms based on data obtained for the terms e.g. term correlating module can match a description of Check In Files of the topic source control software package with a description of Submit Files in the knowledge domain source control software package based on comparing manuals or other documents located in repository for the software packages .

The clients may in some cases each be computing devices associated with different individuals locations or entities within an organization. For example among the clients one client may be associated with a first facility or location of a first organization. Meanwhile a second client may be associated with a second facility or location of the first organization. However in some embodiments each of the clients may be associated with individuals locations or entities associated with different organizations. As such for example some of the clients may be associated with the first organization while other ones of the clients are associated with a second organization. Thus for example the clients may be remotely located from each other collocated or combinations thereof.

Each one of the clients may include or otherwise be embodied as a computing device e.g. a computer a network access terminal a personal digital assistant PDA cellular phone smart phone or the like capable of communication with a network . As such for example each one of the clients may include or otherwise have access to memory for storing instructions or applications for the performance of various functions and a corresponding processor for executing stored instructions or applications and a corresponding processor or processing circuitry. Each one of the clients may also include software and or corresponding hardware for enabling the performance of the respective functions of the clients as described below. In an example embodiment one or more of the clients may include a client application including software for enabling a respective one of the clients to communicate with the network for requesting and or receiving information and or services via the network . The information or services receivable at the client applications may include deliverable components e.g. downloadable software to configure the clients or information for consumption or utilization at the clients .

The network may be a data network such as a local area network LAN a metropolitan area network MAN a wide area network WAN e.g. the Internet and or the like which may couple the clients to devices such as processing elements e.g. personal computers server computers or the like and or databases. Communication between the network the clients and the devices or databases e.g. servers to which the clients are coupled may be accomplished by either wireline or wireless communication mechanisms and corresponding communication protocols. As such for example the network may form a cloud computing environment.

Cloud computing is a model of service delivery for enabling convenient on demand network access to a shared pool of configurable computing resources e.g. networks network bandwidth servers processing memory storage applications virtual machines and services that can be rapidly provisioned and released with minimal management effort or interaction with a provider of a service. The cloud model may include at least five characteristics at least three service models and at least four deployment models.

On demand self service a cloud consumer can unilaterally provision computing capabilities such as server time and network storage as needed automatically without requiring human interaction with the service s provider.

Broad network access capabilities are available over a network and accessed through standard mechanisms that promote use by heterogeneous thin or thick client platforms e.g. mobile phones laptops and PDAs .

Resource pooling the provider s computing resources are pooled to serve multiple consumers using a multi tenant model with different physical and virtual resources dynamically assigned and reassigned according to demand. There is a sense of location independence in that the consumer generally has no control or knowledge over the exact location of the provided resources but may be able to specify location at a higher level of abstraction e.g. country state or datacenter .

Rapid elasticity capabilities can be rapidly and elastically provisioned in some cases automatically to quickly scale out and rapidly released to quickly scale in. To the consumer the capabilities available for provisioning often appear to be unlimited and can be purchased in any quantity at any time.

Measured service cloud systems automatically control and optimize resource use by leveraging a metering capability at some level of abstraction appropriate to the type of service e.g. storage processing bandwidth and active user accounts . Resource usage can be monitored controlled and reported providing transparency for both the provider and consumer of the utilized service.

Software as a Service SaaS the capability provided to the consumer is to use the provider s applications running on a cloud infrastructure. The applications are accessible from various client devices through a thin client interface such as a web browser e.g. web based email . The consumer does not manage or control the underlying cloud infrastructure including network servers operating systems storage or even individual application capabilities with the possible exception of limited user specific application configuration settings.

Platform as a Service PaaS the capability provided to the consumer is to deploy onto the cloud infrastructure consumer created or acquired applications created using programming languages and tools supported by the provider. The consumer does not manage or control the underlying cloud infrastructure including networks servers operating systems or storage but has control over the deployed applications and possibly application hosting environment configurations.

Infrastructure as a Service IaaS the capability provided to the consumer is to provision processing storage networks and other fundamental computing resources where the consumer is able to deploy and run arbitrary software which can include operating systems and applications. The consumer does not manage or control the underlying cloud infrastructure but has control over operating systems storage deployed applications and possibly limited control of select networking components e.g. host firewalls .

Private cloud the cloud infrastructure is operated solely for an organization. It may be managed by the organization or a third party and may exist on premises or off premises.

Community cloud the cloud infrastructure is shared by several organizations and supports a specific community that has shared concerns e.g. mission security requirements policy and compliance considerations . It may be managed by the organizations or a third party and may exist on premises or off premises.

Public cloud the cloud infrastructure is made available to the general public or a large industry group and is owned by an organization selling cloud services.

Hybrid cloud the cloud infrastructure is a composition of two or more clouds private community or public that remain unique entities but are bound together by standardized or proprietary technology that enables data and application portability e.g. cloud bursting for load balancing between clouds .

A cloud computing environment is service oriented with a focus on statelessness low coupling modularity and semantic interoperability. At the heart of cloud computing is an infrastructure comprising a network of interconnected nodes.

In an example embodiment devices to which the clients may be coupled via the network may include a server network including one or more application servers e.g. application server and or a database server which together may form respective elements of a server network . Although the application server and the database server are each referred to as servers this does not necessarily imply that they are embodied on separate servers or devices. As such for example a single server or device may include both entities and the database server could merely be represented by a database or group of databases physically located on the same server or device as the application server . The application server and the database server may each include hardware and or software for configuring the application server and the database server respectively to perform various functions. As such for example the application server may include processing logic and memory enabling the application server to access and or execute stored computer readable instructions for performing various functions.

In an example embodiment one function that may be provided by the application server may include one or more of the modules shown and described in such as a metaphor determining module term correlating module content generating module repository interface module polling module etc. As an example the application server may be configured to provide clients with access to the one or more of the modules for generating content related to a topic and knowledge domain of an intended audience as described above by executing the modules from the cloud. In another example client application can include or receive certain functions of the modules or the modules themselves.

In an example embodiment the application server may include or have access to memory e.g. internal memory or the database server for storing instructions or applications for the performance of various functions and a corresponding processor for executing stored instructions or applications or information of repository . For example the memory may store an instance of one or more of the metaphor determining module term correlating module content generating module interface module polling module etc. configured to operate in accordance with an example embodiment. In this regard for example the metaphor determining module term correlating module content generating module repository interface module polling module etc. may include software for enabling the application server to communicate with the network and or the clients for the provision and or receipt of information associated with performing activities as described herein.

Referring now to an apparatus for providing content related to a topic and a knowledge domain of an intended audience as described herein is provided. The apparatus may be a cloud computing node in some embodiments. However since not all embodiments are necessarily practiced in a cloud computing environment it should be appreciated that the apparatus is not necessarily a cloud computing node in all example embodiments. The apparatus may be or may provide an embodiment of one or more or a collection of described modules or other components such as metaphor determining module term correlating module content generating module repository interface module polling module etc. In some embodiments the apparatus may be a personal computer system server computer system thin client thick client handheld or laptop device multiprocessor system microprocessor based system set top box programmable consumer electronic device network PC minicomputer system mainframe computer system distributed cloud computing environment that includes and of the above systems or devices and or the like e.g. one of the clients or a server of the server network . The apparatus may function according to its configuration as any of a number of different entities. As such configuration of the apparatus as described herein may transform the apparatus into one or more of metaphor determining module term correlating module content generating module repository interface module polling module etc. In some cases configuration of the apparatus may be accomplished via executable instructions such as program modules executed by a computer system. The program modules may include routines programs objects components logic data structures and so on that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types.

In an example embodiment the apparatus may include or otherwise be in communication with processing circuitry that is configured to perform data processing application execution and other processing and management services according to an example embodiment. In one embodiment the processing circuitry may include a storage device and a processor which may itself include one or more processors that may be in communication with or otherwise control a user interface and a device interface . As such the processing circuitry may be embodied as a circuit chip e.g. an integrated circuit chip configured e.g. with hardware software or a combination of hardware and software to perform at least a portion of operations described herein. However in some embodiments the processing circuitry may be embodied as a portion of a server computer laptop workstation or even one of various mobile computing devices. In situations where the processing circuitry is embodied as a server or at a remotely located computing device the user interface may be disposed at another device e.g. at a computer terminal or network access terminal that may be in communication with the processing circuitry via the device interface and or a network e.g. network .

Internal communication among components of the apparatus may be accomplished via a communication bus. Such a communication bus may represent one or more of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus an accelerated graphics port and a processor or local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. By way of example and not limitation such architectures may include Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus Enhanced ISA EISA bus Video Electronics Standards Association VESA local bus and Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus.

The user interface may be in communication with the processing circuitry to receive an indication of a user input at the user interface and or to provide an audible visual mechanical or other output to the user. As such the user interface may include for example a keyboard a mouse a joystick a display a touch screen a microphone a pointing device a speaker or other input output mechanisms. In embodiments where the apparatus is embodied at a server or other network entity the user interface may be limited or even eliminated in some cases. Alternatively as indicated above the user interface may be remotely located. The user interface can be similar to or can implement functionality described with respect to interface module .

The device interface may include one or more interface mechanisms for enabling communication with other devices and or networks. In some cases the device interface may be any means such as a device or circuitry embodied in either hardware software or a combination of hardware and software that is configured to receive and or transmit data from to a network and or any other device or module in communication with the processing circuitry . In this regard the device interface may include for example an antenna or multiple antennas and supporting hardware and or software for enabling communications with a wireless communication network and or a communication modem or other hardware software for supporting communication via cable digital subscriber line DSL universal serial bus USB Ethernet or other methods. In situations where the device interface communicates with a network the network may be any of various examples of wireless or wired communication networks such as for example data networks like a Local Area Network LAN a Metropolitan Area Network MAN and or a Wide Area Network WAN such as the Internet.

In an example embodiment the storage device may include one or more non transitory storage or memory devices such as for example volatile and or non volatile memory that may be either fixed or removable. As such the storage device may include random access memory RAM and or cache memory. In some embodiments the storage device may be a magnetic disk drive or an optical disk drive e.g. CD ROM DVD ROM and or the like . The storage device may be configured to store information data applications program modules instructions or the like for enabling the apparatus to carry out various functions in accordance with example embodiments described herein. For example the storage device could be configured to buffer input data for processing by the processor . Additionally or alternatively the storage device could be configured to store instructions for execution by the processor . As yet another alternative the storage device may include one of a plurality of databases that may store a variety of files contents or data sets. Among the contents of the storage device applications may be stored for execution by the processor in order to carry out the functionality associated with each respective application. Moreover for example storage device can be at least part of a repository .

The processor may be embodied in a number of different ways. For example the processor may be embodied as various processing means such as a microprocessor or other processing element a coprocessor a controller or various other computing or processing devices including integrated circuits such as for example an ASIC application specific integrated circuit an FPGA field programmable gate array a hardware accelerator or the like. In an example embodiment the processor may be configured to execute instructions stored in the storage device or otherwise accessible to the processor . As such whether configured by hardware or software methods or by a combination thereof the processor may represent an entity e.g. physically embodied in circuitry capable of performing operations according to example embodiments while configured accordingly. Thus for example when the processor is embodied as an ASIC FPGA or the like the processor may be specifically configured hardware for conducting the operations described herein. Alternatively as another example when the processor is embodied as an executor of software instructions the instructions may specifically configure the processor to perform the operations described herein.

In an example embodiment the processor or the processing circuitry may be embodied as include or otherwise control one or more modules or other components such as metaphor determining module term correlating module content generating module repository interface module polling module etc. which may be any means such as a device or circuitry operating in accordance with software or otherwise embodied in hardware or a combination of hardware and software e.g. processor operating under software control the processor embodied as an ASIC or FPGA specifically configured to perform the operations described herein or a combination thereof thereby configuring the device or circuitry to perform the corresponding functions as described herein.

In some embodiments the apparatus may operate based on a set of functional abstraction layers including for example a hardware and software layer a virtualization layer a management layer and or a workload layer. In an example embodiment the hardware and software layer may be provided via a plurality of hardware and software components. Examples of hardware components include mainframes in one example IBM zSeries systems RISC Reduced Instruction Set Computer architecture based servers in one example IBM pSeries systems IBM xSeries systems IBM BladeCenter systems storage devices networks and networking components. Examples of software components include network application server software in one example IBM WebSphere application server software and database software in one example IBM DB2 database software. IBM zSeries pSeries xSeries BladeCenter WebSphere and DB2 are trademarks of International Business Machines Corporation registered in many jurisdictions worldwide . The virtualization layer may provide an abstraction layer from which the following examples of virtual entities may be provided virtual servers virtual storage virtual networks including virtual private networks virtual applications and operating systems and virtual clients. In one example the management layer may provide any of a number of functions including for example resource provisioning metering and pricing billing or invoicing security user portal provides access service level management Service Level Agreement SLA planning and fulfillment and or the like. The workloads layer may provide examples of functionality for which the cloud computing environment may be utilized. Examples of workloads and functions which may be provided from this layer include provision of a tool for discovery and realization of business measurement concepts using industry models.

From a technical perspective the apparatus described above may be configured accordingly to be used to support some or all of the operations described herein in relation to various modules such as metaphor determining module term correlating module content generating module repository interface module polling module etc. As such the platform described in may be used to facilitate the implementation of several computer program and or network communication based interactions.

As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art aspects described herein may be embodied as a system method or computer program product. Accordingly described aspects may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module or system. Furthermore described aspects may take the form of a computer program product embodied in one or more computer readable medium s having computer readable program code embodied thereon.

Any combination of one or more computer readable medium s may be utilized. The computer readable medium may be a computer readable signal medium or a computer readable storage medium. A computer readable storage medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable storage medium would include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM an optical storage device a magnetic storage device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. In the context of this document a computer readable storage medium may be any tangible medium that can contain or store a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

A computer readable signal medium may include a propagated data signal with computer readable program code embodied therein for example in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. Such a propagated signal may take any of a variety of forms including but not limited to electro magnetic optical or any suitable combination thereof. A computer readable signal medium may be any computer readable medium that is not a computer readable storage medium and that can communicate propagate or transport a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

Program code embodied on a computer readable medium may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to wireless wireline optical fiber cable RF etc. or any suitable combination of the foregoing.

Computer program code for carrying out operations for aspects of the described subject matter may be written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The program code may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

Certain aspects are described below with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products according to example embodiments. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable medium that can direct a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable medium produce an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer other programmable apparatus or other devices to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide processes for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

An example method according to one example embodiment will now be described in reference to . The method of may be executed by various modules described herein. The method may include obtaining topic information regarding a topic to be presented to an intended audience at operation . The method may further include obtaining knowledge information regarding the intended audience at operation . Both operations and can be performed by utilizing an interface that can facilitate obtaining the information based on one or more related prompts. The method may also include determining one or more metaphors related to the topic and potentially understood by the intended audience at operation . The one or more metaphors can be determined from a repository based on the topic information and knowledge information based on a specified type of terminology etc. as described. In addition determined metaphors can be presented for approval and or selection in one example. The method includes generating content for the topic information based on a comparative analysis thereof to the one or more metaphors at operation . The comparative analysis can include associating terms of the topic information with terms of the metaphor as described herein to allow for generation of the content based on the terms of the metaphor.

Another example method according to an embodiment will now be described in reference to . The method of may be executed by various modules as described herein. The method may include receiving topic information and knowledge information from an interface at operation . The method can also include searching a repository for a mapping between one or more metaphors related to the topic information and knowledge information at . As described the mapping can be generated before the searching occurs and can be based on previous associations of the metaphors for presenting the topic information and or for presenting to an audience with similar knowledge information. In another example the mapping can be searched and determined based at least in part on a commonality between the topic information and knowledge information using TDT tasks such as KeyGraph text analysis statistical data pattern processing comparative studies image comparison and or substantially any mechanism that can be used to map metaphors to concepts as explained above. The method also includes optionally determining one or more of the metaphors related to the topic information and knowledge information at operation . This can include determining a subset of the metaphors based on at least one of results of comparative analyses described above further analyses to determine most likely metaphors for describing the topic information e.g. based on similar terms between the topic information and metaphors a previous ranking for explaining the topic information and or for presenting to an audience with similar knowledge information and or the like. Metaphors can be further presented on an interface for selection or approval for example and the method also includes receiving selection or approval of the one or more metaphors at operation . The method further includes correlating terms of the topic information with terms of the one or more metaphors at operation . This can include searching for common aspects of the terms obtaining a mapping of metaphor terms to topic terms inferring relationships between the terms etc.

Moreover the method includes generating content for the topic information using the terms of the one or more metaphors at operation . The generated content can be a presentation explanation etc. as described where metaphor terms are used to describe the topic. The method further includes obtaining modification to the content at operation . Any modifications can be incorporated into the content and or can result in generation of information for subsequent metaphor and or term determination. The method optionally includes generating a poll to determine whether the metaphor was effective for presenting the topic information at operation and storing poll results for the metaphor and or topic information at . In this regard the poll results are used in subsequent determination of the metaphor for use with the topic or other topics e.g. if the poll indicates the metaphor was effective the metaphor can be recommended for further use with the topic or other topics .

Yet another example method according to an embodiment will now be described in reference to . The method of may be executed by various modules as described herein. The method can include obtaining topic information and knowledge information of the intended audience at operation . The method can also include searching for a relation or commonality between the topic information and knowledge information at operation . This can include searching a repository for mappings between the topic information and knowledge information performing web searches or other data mining to infer relations etc. as described. The method further includes suggesting different types of terminologies with which the intended audience is familiar at operation . For example this can be based on the determined relation or commonality and the terminologies can be presented for selection. Thus the method also includes receiving selection of at least one of the different types of terminology at operation . The method additionally includes suggesting a list of metaphors for associating with the topic information at operation . The metaphors can be suggested based on selected types of terminology.

The method includes receiving selection of at least one of the metaphors at operation where the metaphors can be listed on an interface to facilitate selection. It is to be appreciated that one or more metaphors can be rejected which can cause suggesting additional metaphors for selection until a metaphor is chosen. The method also includes prompting for additional information regarding the topic at operation . In this regard the additional information can be presented in the form of a presentation of the topic certain terms associated with the topic and or the like. The method includes performing a comparative analysis between the topic information and the metaphor at operation . This can include matching received or determined terms of the topic with terms of the metaphor. The method further includes creating a presentation of the topic information based on the comparative analysis at operation . This can include replacing terms of the topic in a provided presentation with terms of the metaphor augmenting the presentation to explain the topic terms using the metaphor terms generating a new presentation and or the like. The method also includes determining if modification is needed at operation . This can be based on providing the presentation via an interface component to allow interaction and possible modification. If modifications are indicated the method proceeds to operation to again prompt for additional information regarding the topic. If no modifications are needed the method includes finalizing the presentation at operation .

In an example embodiment an apparatus for performing the methods of above may comprise a processor e.g. the processor configured to perform some or each of the operations described above. The processor may for example be configured to perform the operations by performing hardware implemented logical functions executing stored instructions executing algorithms for performing each of the operations etc.

The flowchart and block diagrams in the Figures illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems methods and computer program products according to various embodiments. In this regard each block in the flowchart or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems that perform the specified functions or acts or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

Many modifications and other embodiments set forth herein will come to mind to one skilled in the art to which the described subject matter pertains having the benefit of the teachings presented in the foregoing descriptions and the associated drawings. Therefore it is to be understood that the subject matter described herein is not to be limited to the specific embodiments disclosed and that modifications and other embodiments are intended to be included within the scope of the appended claims. Moreover although the foregoing descriptions and the associated drawings describe exemplary embodiments in the context of certain exemplary combinations of elements and or functions it should be appreciated that different combinations of elements and or functions may be provided by alternative embodiments without departing from the scope of the appended claims. In this regard for example different combinations of elements and or functions than those explicitly described above are also contemplated as may be set forth in some of the appended claims. In cases where advantages benefits or solutions to problems are described herein it should be appreciated that such advantages benefits and or solutions may be applicable to some example embodiments but not necessarily all example embodiments. Thus any advantages benefits or solutions described herein should not be thought of as being critical required or essential to all embodiments or to that which is claimed herein. Although specific terms are employed herein they are used in a generic and descriptive sense only and not for purposes of limitation.

