---

title: User interface overlay application
abstract: A system and method to apply a first User Interface (UI) layout associated with a first system to a second UI associated with a second system. A user overlay interface application identifies the components and/or functionality of a target UI, such as the first UI, to information presented by a second system. In this way, the user may select the UI format desired for multiple systems and thus improve the user experience using multiple systems.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09361393&OS=09361393&RS=09361393
owner: PayPal, Inc.
number: 09361393
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130315
---
The present application relates generally to the technical field of user interface presentation and in one specific example to customizing the user interface layout format in a way desired by the user.

When a user accesses a web site via a network the user interface UI presented by the web site may not be a UI that is in a layout format that is satisfactory to a user. Using online shopping as only one example the user may like to shop online with a UI that is in the layout format presented by market system A because of its ease of use. When the user accesses market system B the layout format of the UI presented by market system B may be different and less easy to use than the layout format of the UI presented by market system A. The end result may be that the shopping experience at market system B is less desirable to the user than that of market system A and may lead to lesser satisfaction than the shopping experience when the user accesses market system A. Consequently the user may be less likely to conclude a transaction on market system B. Additionally this requires the user to learn multiple interfaces and processes which leads to confusion and possibly tedious time consuming commerce experience. Currently the user cannot customize their experience for similar type processes such as shopping banking networking advanced search and so forth. This may be ameliorated if the layout format of the UI presented to the user when accessing market system B were the same or very similar to the UI layout format presented by market system A. This may be accomplished by an app or widget that overlays a preferred UI layout format here that of market system A including look and feel plus organization to the UI of market system B. This may be done for all shopping sites shopping sites being only one example. The result is that all sites may appear consistent with the look feel and organization preferred by the user.

A user overlay interface application or widget that uses a preferred UI layout format to present information from a UI that is offered to a user in a non preferred UI layout format is disclosed. In one embodiment online shopping is used as an example. However the user overlay interface application may apply to any online activity. In operation the user overlay interface application may pull specific common functions selections presentations font color and or size layout format from a preferred web site or from a web site that is most commonly used by the user. The application then may be used to apply these features to other shopping sites when they present a UI to the user. In this way the other sites appear in a familiar layout making selections and other information easy to find by the user. As devices continue to become smaller more personal portable and continuously available the user experience is greatly diminished when the user is required to learn multiple different formats and layouts for a same activity. This is particularly true for activities having predictable steps such as shopping or search. In a shopping activity the user discovers products desires to see more specific information on a product selects the product answers questions about product feature selections such as size color inputs quantity inputs address information inputs billing information and completes the transaction and checkout. Some shopping sites provide short cuts and combine activities such as to remember address or shipping information preferences. Unfortunately for the consumer shopping sites lay the predictable steps and features as well as the short cuts out in a variety of ways layouts and formats. The consumer desires a more uniform and consistent means to interface and perform predictable steps or similar actions on multiple sites. Still further the consumer may desire to configure the layout to their specific preference which may not be offered by any site or service provider.

In one embodiment a user may like to shop at marketing system A and is comfortable with the layout format of the UI presented by marketing system A referred to herein as UI A . The user also shops at marketing system B but finds that the UI presented by system B referred to herein as UI B to be difficult to navigate or just prefers the marketing system A layout format. In the present embodiment a user overlay interface application is available to apply the UI A to the information presented by system B to form a new UI B and when the user accesses or shops on marketing system B the user overlay interface application may move or otherwise modify the components of the System B UI B so that it appears in a layout format similar to that of marketing system A UI A . The user overlay interface application uses the components and information provided and used by system B but presents these components and information in the layout of UI A .

In one embodiment illustrated below system A may have a navigation panel positioned vertically down the left hand side of the UI A . The user finds this layout format easy to navigate and prefers the layout of UI A . This preferred layout is referred to as L A and is the definition of placement and functionality as presented on UI A . Note that L A may refer to a single page of UI A or a full set of pages. For example L A may be the landing page for system A or may refer to the full set of pages that a user may navigate on system A. In some embodiments the user may specify a single page of UI A such as the checkout page. In some embodiments the user may specify multiple pages of UI A and use a user overlay interface application to apply the specified page s to other system pages such as to UI B . In this way the user may experience the full variety of pages but simplify their interactions as desired.

In some embodiments the user overlay interface application may combine elements on a single page that are otherwise presented on multiple pages. For example where the shipping and billing addresses entry forms are entered on separate pages the user overlay interface application may present both entry forms on one page. Alternate modifications may be made by the user or suggested by the user overlay interface application.

Returning to the example of marketing systems A and B the marketing system B in contrast to marketing system A may position a navigation panel horizontally across the top of the UI B . One of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that other features of a site s UI may be used to illustrate the user overlay interface application and the present example is provided merely for clarity and understanding. Given that the user overlay interface application pulled the various features from marketing system A UI A as discussed above those features may be applied to the information presented by marketing system B as UI B wherein the information is presented to the user in a layout format that is similar to the UI A presented by marketing system A. This may be viewed as a redesign of marketing system B s UI. This may be accomplished without changing the function of selectable icons or other functioning elements on the site in any substantial way.

A data exchange platform in an example form of a network based publisher may provide server side functionality via a network e.g. the Internet wireless network cellular network or a Wide Area Network WAN to one or more clients. The one or more clients may include users that utilize the network system and more specifically the network based publisher to exchange data over the network . These transactions may include transmitting receiving communicating and processing data to from and regarding content and users of the network system . The data may include but are not limited to content and user data such as feedback data user profiles user attributes product attributes product and service reviews product service manufacture and vendor recommendations and identifiers social network commentary product and service listings associated with buyers and sellers auction bids and transaction data among other things.

In various embodiments the data exchanges within the network system may be dependent upon user selected functions available through one or more client or user interfaces UIs . The UIs may be associated with a client device such as a client device using a web client . The web client may be in communication with the network based publisher via a web server . The UIs may also be associated with a client device using a programmatic client such as a client application. It can be appreciated in various embodiments the client devices may be associated with a buyer a seller a third party electronic commerce platform a payment service provider or a shipping service provider each in communication with the network based publisher and optionally each other. The buyers and sellers may be any one of individuals merchants or service providers among other things. The client devices and may comprise a mobile phone desktop computer laptop or any other communication device that a user may use to access the network based publisher .

Turning specifically to the network based publisher an application program interface API server and a web server are coupled to and provide programmatic and web interfaces respectively to one or more application servers . The application servers host one or more publication application s of publication system and one or more payment systems . The application server s are in turn shown to be coupled to one or more database server s that facilitate access to one or more database s .

In one embodiment the web server and the API server communicate and receive data pertaining to products listings transactions social network commentary and feedback among other things via various user input tools. For example the web server may send and receive data to and from a toolbar or webpage on a browser application e.g. web client operating on a client device e.g. client device . The API server may send and receive data to and from an application e.g. client application running on another client device e.g. client device .

The publication system publishes content on a network e.g. the Internet . As such the publication system provides a number of publication and marketplace functions and services to users that access the network based publisher . For example the publication application s of publication system may provide a number of services and functions to users for listing goods and or services for sale facilitating transactions and reviewing and providing feedback about transactions and associated users. Additionally the publication application s of publication system may track and store data and metadata relating to products listings transactions and user interaction with the network based publisher . The publication application s of publication system may aggregate the tracked data and metadata to perform data mining to identify trends or patterns in the data. While the publication system may be discussed in terms of a marketplace environment it may be noted that the publication system may be associated with a non marketplace environment.

The payment system provides a number of payment services and functions to users. The payment system allows users to accumulate value e.g. in a commercial currency such as the U.S. dollar or a proprietary currency such as points in accounts and then later to redeem the accumulated value for products e.g. goods or services that are made available via the publication system . The payment system also facilitates payments from a payment mechanism e.g. a bank account PayPal account or credit card for purchases of items via the network based marketplace. While the publication system and the payment system are shown in to both form part of the network based publisher it will be appreciated that in alternative embodiments the payment system may form part of a payment service that may be separate and distinct from the network based publisher .

The publication system are shown to include at least one or more auction application s which support auction format listing and price setting mechanisms e.g. English Dutch Vickrey Chinese Double Reverse auctions etc. . The auction application s may also provide a number of features in support of such auction format listings such as a reserve price feature whereby a seller may specify a reserve price in connection with a listing and a proxy bidding feature whereby a bidder may invoke automated proxy bidding. The auction format offer in any format may be published in any virtual or physical marketplace medium and may be considered the point of sale for the commerce transaction between a seller and a buyer or two users .

One or more fixed price application s support fixed price listing formats e.g. the traditional classified advertisement type listing or a catalogue listing and buyout type listings. Specifically buyout type listings e.g. including the Buy It Now BIN technology developed by eBay Inc. of San Jose Calif. may be offered in conjunction with auction format listings and allow a buyer to purchase goods or services which are also being offered for sale via an auction for a fixed price that may be typically higher than the starting price of the auction.

The application s of the application server s may include one or more store application s that allow a seller to group listings within a virtual store. The virtual store may be branded and otherwise personalized by and for the seller. Such a virtual store may also offer promotions incentives and features that are specific and personalized to a relevant seller.

Navigation of the online marketplace may be facilitated by one or more navigation application s . For example a search application as an example of a navigation application may enable key word searches of listings published via the network based publisher . A browse application may allow users to browse various category catalogue or inventory data structures according to which listings may be classified within the network based publisher . Various other navigation applications may be provided to supplement the search and browsing applications.

Merchandizing application s support various merchandising functions that are made available to sellers to enable sellers to increase sales via the network based publisher . The merchandizing application s also operate the various merchandising features that may be invoked by sellers and may monitor and track the success of merchandising strategies employed by sellers.

Personalization application s allow users of the network based publisher to personalize various aspects of their interactions with the network based publisher . For example a user may utilizing an appropriate personalization application create a personalized reference page at which information regarding transactions to which the user may be or has been a party may be viewed. Further the personalization application s may enable a third party to personalize products and other aspects of their interactions with the network based publisher and other parties or to provide other information such as relevant business information about themselves.

The publication system may include one or more internationalization application s . In one embodiment the network based publisher may support a number of marketplaces that are customized for example for specific geographic regions. A version of the network based publisher may be customized for the United Kingdom whereas another version of the network based publisher may be customized for the United States. Each of these versions may operate as an independent marketplace or may be customized or internationalized presentations of a common underlying marketplace. The network based publisher may accordingly include a number of internationalization application s that customize information and or the presentation of information by the network based publisher according to predetermined criteria e.g. geographic demographic or marketplace criteria . For example the internationalization application s may be used to support the customization of information for a number of regional websites that are operated by the network based publisher and that are accessible via respective web servers.

Reputation application s allow users that transact utilizing the network based publisher to establish build and maintain reputations which may be made available and published to potential trading partners. Consider that where for example the network based publisher supports person to person trading users may otherwise have no history or other reference information whereby the trustworthiness and credibility of potential trading partners may be assessed. The reputation application s allow a user for example through feedback provided by other transaction partners to establish a reputation within the network based publisher over time. Other potential trading partners may then reference such a reputation for the purposes of assessing credibility and trustworthiness.

In order to make listings available via the network based publisher as visually informing and attractive as possible the publication system may include one or more imaging application s utilizing which users may upload images for inclusion within listings. An imaging application also operates to incorporate images within viewed listings. The imaging application s may also support one or more promotional features such as image galleries that are presented to potential buyers. For example sellers may generally pay an additional fee to have an image included within a gallery of images for promoted items.

The publication system may include one or more offer creation application s . The offer creation application s allow sellers conveniently to author products pertaining to goods or services that they wish to transact via the network based publisher . Offer management application s allow sellers to manage offers such as goods services or donation opportunities. Specifically where a particular seller has authored and or published a large number of products the management of such products may present a challenge. The offer management application s provide a number of features e.g. auto reproduct inventory level monitors etc. to assist the seller in managing such products. One or more post offer management application s also assist sellers with a number of activities that typically occur post offer. For example upon completion of an auction facilitated by one or more auction application s a seller may wish to leave feedback regarding a particular buyer. To this end a post offer management application may provide an interface to one or more reputation application s so as to allow the seller conveniently to provide feedback regarding multiple buyers to the reputation application s .

The dispute resolution application s may provide mechanisms whereby disputes arising between transacting parties may be resolved. For example the dispute resolution application s may provide guided procedures whereby the parties are guided through a number of steps in an attempt to settle a dispute. In the event that the dispute cannot be settled via the guided procedures the dispute may be escalated to a mediator or arbitrator.

The fraud prevention application s may implement various fraud detection and prevention mechanisms to reduce the occurrence of fraud within the network based publisher . The fraud prevention application s may prevent fraud with respect to the third party and or the client user in relation to any part of the request payment information flows and or request fulfillment. Fraud may occur with respect to unauthorized use of financial instruments non delivery of goods and abuse of personal information.

Authentication application s may verify the identity of a user and may be used in conjunction with the fraud prevention application s . The user may be requested to submit verification of identity an identifier upon making the purchase request for example. Verification may be made by a code entered by the user a cookie retrieved from the device a phone number identification pair a username password pair handwriting and or biometric methods such as voice data face data iris data finger print data and hand data. In some embodiments the user may not be permitted to login without appropriate authentication. The system e.g. the FSP may automatically recognize the user based upon the particular network based device used and a retrieved cookie for example.

The network based publisher itself or one or more parties that transact via the network based publisher may operate loyalty programs and other types of promotions that are supported by one or more loyalty promotions application s . For example a buyer client user may earn loyalty or promotions points for each transaction established and or concluded with a particular seller third party and may be offered a reward for which accumulated loyalty points can be redeemed.

The application server s may include messaging application s . The messaging application s are responsible for the generation and delivery of messages to client users and third parties of the network based publisher . Information in these messages may be pertinent to services offered by and activities performed via the payment system . Such messages for example advise client users regarding the status of products e.g. providing out of stock or outbid notices to client users or payment status e.g. providing invoice for payment Notification of a Payment Received delivery status invoice notices . Third parties may be notified of a product order payment confirmation and or shipment information. Respective messaging application s may utilize any one of a number of message delivery networks and platforms to deliver messages to users. For example messaging application s may deliver electronic mail e mail instant message IM Short Message Service SMS text facsimile or voice e.g. Voice over IP VoIP messages via the wired e.g. the Internet Plain Old Telephone Service POTS or wireless e.g. mobile cellular WiFi WiMAX networks.

The payment system may include one or more payment processing application s . The payment processing application s may receive electronic invoices from the merchants and may receive payments associated with the electronic invoices. The payment system may also make use of functions performed by some applications included in the publication system .

The publication system may include one or more user interface overlay applications . The one or more user interface overlay applications may include information comprising a first user interface layout format and may be configured to enable a client machine to receive a user interface presented in a second user interface layout format and apply the user overlay interface application to the user interface to modify or change the second user interface layout format to the first layout format. The user interface overlay application may be created by the publication system for communication to a client machine for execution as described in more detail below. Alternatively a device manufacturer may create the user interface overlay application and embed the application in its devices in an attempt to provide an enhanced user experience. The device could be a desktop computer a laptop computer or a computer embedded in a car or in the wall of a home. In view of the increasing use of mobile communications the device could also be any mobile device such as a smart phone a personal digital assistant and the like. The device manufacturer may itself create the application or have a software manufacturer create the application for embedding in the device or alternatively for downloading into the device at or after the time of manufacture.

In some embodiments the overlay may access the API of various sites and identify similar information. For shopping sites such information may include the thumbnail images of products the size chart information the category information the color information and so forth. Each site may provide more or less information than another site. The mechanism of preparing the overlay then involves accessing such information and mapping to a template or desired layout.

The user overlay interface application may be implemented and operate in conjunction with client device . In one embodiment the user overlay interface application may be resident at client machine of . However one of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the application may be resident elsewhere. Further in one embodiment the user overlay interface application may originate with the network based publisher and be communicated to the client device or other device for use. This embodiment may hold advantages in that the network based publisher may install a cookie on the client device to which the application is communicated. In such an instance the network based publisher may then be notified when the client device accesses a competitor web site to operate the user overlay interface application and may also be notified of the articles the client device is querying. Some network based embodiments may then apply the user s selection and preferences to be applied as an overlay on multiple devices without storing cookies or other information on the individual devices. In this way the user s layout preferences travel with the user and may be applied any time the user accesses similar type sites. The network based publisher may then use this information to communicate an advertisement for its own products to the client device.

I O devices can include commonly known inputs such as side input elements e.g. rotary switches face mounted input elements such as buttons multi key keyboards or other manual input elements. Still further I O devices may include biometric mechanisms which allow the user to navigate and control the device using non conventional and or non mechanical inputs. In one example I O devices may include display such as where display is a touch screen device capable of receiving manual input as well as providing visual output.

Control circuitry can include one or more microprocessors such as a central processing unit s CPU and or a graphical processing unit s GPU . The control circuitry communicates with RF layer to transmit and receive radio frequency communications. During transmission the control circuitry may provide a voice signal from a microphone or other data signal to the RF layer. The RF layer transmits the signal to a remote station for example a fixed station operator or other cellular phones etc. Transmissions to and from the RF layer can be conducted under control of the operating system . Communications received by the RF layer may be disseminated to applications via the operating system and vice versa. During a receiving mode the RF layer receives a voice or other data signal from a remote station or other device which are processed appropriately. The control circuitry may include or further communicate with audio and video interfaces. An audio interface for example may be used with a speaker to provide audible signals to a user and a microphone to receive audible signals from the user.

Memory can include various volatile and or non volatile memory. Memory can store processor readable code that is executable by one or more processors of control circuitry to implement various functionality described herein. Operating system resides in memory and is executable on or by control circuitry . Various applications may be loaded into memory and run on or outside of the operating system . Examples of applications include phone dialer programs e mail programs personal information management programs word processing programs spreadsheet programs internet browser programs games social networking applications shopping applications global positioning system applications the user overlay interface application under discussion and so forth. Applications may use and store information in non volatile storage such as e mail or other messages used by an e mail application contact information used by a personal information management program documents used by a word processing application information from web sites for use by the user overlay interface application and other information. In one embodiment applications include an application provided by capture processor to facilitate operation of the user overlay interface application using image capture capabilities for capturing images from UIs communicated to client device by web sites and operating on the images with the user overlay interface application.

Image DB for including previously stored known UI images layout dimensions and other UI information may be maintained at the client device. A standards database may also be maintained for including known standards such as aspect ratios and the like relating to various types of images at a UI.

Capture processor enables the acquisition or capture of images of a UI communicated to client device for example by network based publisher as well as UIs communicated by other web sites. In one embodiment in response to a request to access network based publisher a UI may be communicated to client device by the network based publisher and a set of UI images such as images of preferred UI of may be captured by capture processor . In addition layout format and element locations of the UI may also be captured as discussed below. Capture processor may apply a capture overlay box or bounding box to the UI. The capture overlay box seen in one example at of includes dimensions corresponding to the aspect ratio of a UI. In one embodiment the overlay box provides color coded feedback indicating alignment of the UI. For example each line of the bounding box may be provided in a first color when no corresponding edge of the UI has been detected and provided in a second color when the corresponding edge of the UI is detected. In some embodiments the capture processor identifies the location of images features characteristics of one or more UI layouts. These are then used to determine the correction or modification to apply the desired overlay to a given configuration of elements. The ability to customize the user s experience to a convenient and comfortable interface. The user may then navigate and make purchasing decisions quicker and with less concentration. The user may determine further customizations over time and may configure their own interface. This may the case where the user does not desire to see the information associated with the position in the category tree or other information. In some embodiments the user may desire to preconfigure sizes colors price ranges or so forth.

In one embodiment capture processor identifies contrasts in the scene s depicted by images stored at . In this manner the contrast between the UI and one or more backgrounds may be identified as corresponding UI edges for use in defining such elements as navigation panels and the like. Contrasts may consider color shading sizing font size location of text and other considerations. Still further the capture processor may contrast selection styles of boxes circles checks sliding selectors and so forth.

In an embodiment an area or portion of the selected image s within an identified boundary is clipped or extracted from the image if needed for example for storing as a known image in image DB discussed below. Portions of the representation having a known correspondence to relevant portions of the UI may be identified. For example a portion of the representation corresponding to a lower third of a UI may be identified and extracted for the UI if needed. Further any portion of the image within a bounding overlay box may be extracted.

These images and other information may be stored as images in storage and may also be stored in image DB to which storage and capture processor may be coupled. In one embodiment such images and other UI information such as dimensions and layout information of UI may be stored in image DB as known images during a learning process by which the user overlay interface application learns the configuration of the preferred UI . Subsequently when the user overlay interface application operates on a non preferred UI such as of to convert it to a preferred UI such as of in one embodiment the user overlay image application will compare captured images of UI against known images of preferred UI that are stored in image DB .

In one embodiment in response to client device receiving a user preferred UI of the user may activate the user overlay interface application. In response capture processor may capture images and other information from the preferred UI into storage . Image processor discussed below and may perform at least a first set of image processing steps on the images and other information in storage . In one example such processing steps may include determining the physical characteristics of the UI images such as size appearance display location on the UI dimensions and selectable search category icons and storing them as known images in image DB . Client device may include image processor character recognition engine and source character DB . Image processor and character recognition engine may process images and characters from UI . Source character DB may include characters and in some cases images which are operated on by image processor and character recognition engine which may compare them to characters and images captured by the capture processor . In one example image processor segments images in storage to identify and or extract areas that contain relevant portions of UI . From the identified areas image processor generates individual images. In one embodiment processor may also generate images for each of the selectable search categories or icons and other characters of the communicated UI. This may again be accomplished by use of character recognition engine for image comparison and by source character DB . For example the character images generated by processor may be passed to the character recognition engine which applies a suitable optical or other character recognition process to identify the character associated with each character image. Character recognition engine may utilize a database of source based images in a database such as those of characters found on UIs to determine respective characters for character images of UI and or provide a character analysis. These processes may also use known standards such as aspect ratios from standards database alluded to above in the comparison as needed to establish UI layout format information. In one embodiment the physical characteristics of the images of UI such as size color appearance position on the UI and dimensions of the UI layout format and selectable search category icons among other things may be determined and as discussed above stored in image DB as known or learned images. The information acquired by these processes can by using well known layout processes be used to identify images selectable search category icons and other information that appear on UI and position them on the UI in an overlay. In one embodiment a grid such as that illustrated in may be used to define the position of each image selectable search category and other information for its placement on the UI. The grid superimposed on the UI in may for example identify navigation panel element with grid location N navigation panel element with grid location N navigation panel element with grid location N and so on. If desired listings may be identified as located in grid locations A through C. Each grid location may be associated with the particular UI element or parts thereof and stored in image DB for later use in converting a UI with a non preferred layout format to a UI with a preferred layout format.

An illustration of the learning process discussed above may be seen from method of the flow chart of . At operation client device may receive a UI in a layout format that is preferred by the user. At operation images and other interface information may be captured as discussed above with respect to capture processor of . At operation the captured images may be identified. Similarly the characters in or associated with the images may be identified at operation and characteristics of the images may be identified at operation . The identity of these images characters and characteristics may be performed using image processor character recognition engine and source character DB as discussed above. The location of the images characters and characteristics may be determined at operation using well known layout methods such as the grid example discussed above with respect to . At the images characters characteristics and locations respectively associated with each of them may be stored as known images in a database such as image DB . These known images may be used in operation of the user overlay interface application discussed below.

In another embodiment the user may desire to design his or her personal or preferred UI layout format to use for online activities. In this embodiment the user builds the layout of elements of the UI such as by using drag and drop functions the result being the UI layout format the user prefers. This may be accomplished with a process including the learning function described above. When completed the function results in an overlay that can be used to convert a UI with a non preferred layout format to a UI with a preferred layout format. In this instance however the preferred layout format has been created by the user as opposed to being a layout format the user likes from a particular web site.

In some embodiments the user s behavior is identified as preferential and suggested to the user. For example if the user has difficulty entering data while on their phone the user overlay interface application may identify one format that is easier for the user in which the user erases less or is able to complete a transaction quicker. Other behaviors may help to design a custom experience for the user such as where the user prefers to select options using a slide motion or a click motion. Similarly this may be a site that the user visits often or in combination with another site and therefore the user overlay interface application may help to anticipate next steps and prepare or pull information before the user needs it to increase the speed of the transaction. For example if the user usually scrolls down to view information at a given position or a relative position on the page relative to other information the user overlay interface application may anticipate this and pull that information for quick presentation. A variety of actions behaviors and anticipated actions may be considered and implemented in a user overlay interface application.

The user may build the user overlay interface application in one embodiment as follows. A UI such as UI seen in may be communicated to the client device . The UI may not be in a layout format preferred by the user. For example UI has selectable search categories Men Women Boys and Girls located horizontally across the top of the UI. The user may prefer that the selectable search categories to be located vertically down the center of the UI. The user may achieve this layout by overlaying a grid on the UI of much like the grid of . The user then drags and drops Men to the center at Men Women to the center at Women Boys to the center at Boys and Girls to the center at Girls . This may be accomplished using well known technology such as that used to relocate selectable categories of UIs of other applications such as for example relocating selectable category icons on an email system. When or as the selectable search categories are relocated on UI capture processor may store the relocated images in storage of . Image processor and character recognition engine discussed above may perform image processing steps on the images and other information in storage . For example source character DB may include characters and in some cases images. These may be operated on by image processor and character recognition engine to compare them to characters and images captured by the capture processor to identify elements of UI and their locations. From the identified elements image processor generates individual images. In one embodiment image processor may generate images for each of the selectable search categories or icons and other characters of UI . Image processor character recognition engine and source character DB and standard DB may function as described above when learning the configuration of the preferred UI to determine respective characters for character images of UI and or provide a character analysis. In one embodiment the physical characteristics of the images of UI such as size color appearance position on the UI and dimensions of the UI layout format and selectable search category icons among other things may be determined and as discussed above stored in image DB as known or learned images. The information acquired by these processes can by using well known layout processes be used to identify images for example the relocated selectable search categories and on UI and locate them on the UI in an overlay. In one embodiment a grid such as that illustrated in may be used to define their position. The foregoing processing steps may include determining the physical characteristics of the UI images again for example and such as size dimensions and appearance and their ending position placement on UI and storing them as known images in image DB . Each grid location may be associated with the particular UI selectable search category and stored in image DB for later use in converting another UI with a non preferred layout format to a UI layout format created by the user as described below.

After the above learning processes the user overlay interface application may be activated to convert a UI with a non preferred layout format to a UI with a preferred layout format. For example the client device may be presented with UI of which UI is in non preferred layout format. The user overlay interface application can be activated to convert UI from having a non preferred layout format to UI of having a preferred layout format by relocating elements of UI to the layout format of UI in . In one instance the overlay may be that generated above for the preferred UI from a particular web site. In another instance the overlay may be that generated by the user using the drag and drop process described above.

In one embodiment in response to a web site communicating a non preferred UI to client device capture processor may capture images and other information from the non preferred UI of into storage as was done with respect to UI during the above learning process. Similarly to the learning process image processor may perform at least a first set of image processing steps on the set of images and other information in storage . In one example such processing steps may include comparing the physical characteristics of the UI images such as size appearance position on the UI dimensions and selectable search category identity with known images of similar parameters of preferred UI stored in image DB . Client device may include image processor character recognition engine and source character DB . Image processor and character recognition engine process images and characters as previously discussed. Source character DB may include characters and in some cases images which are operated on by image processor and character recognition engine . In one example image processor segments images in storage to identify and or extract areas that contain relevant portions the UI here UI . From the identified areas image processor generates individual images. In one embodiment image processor may also generate images for each of the selectable search categories or other characters of the communicated UI . This may be accomplished by use of character recognition engine for image comparison and source character DB for comparison of the other information as was done during the learning process with respect to UI . These processes may also use known standards such as aspect ratios from standards database also alluded to above in the comparison process as needed to establish UI layout information.

The comparison of the images of UI of with known images of preferred UI that are stored in image DB as known images may also take into account the possibility that UI may provide selectable search categories or other UI information that differ from those of UI . This may be accomplished by the image processing discussed above with respect to image processor character recognition engine source character DB and source character DB to determine characters for each character image and or provide a character analysis. The information acquired by these processes can by using well known layout processes be used to identify images and selectable search category icons on UI of and relocate them as illustrated in UI of . This converts the layout format of UI of which is not preferred by the user to the layout format of UI of which is preferred by the user as was discussed above.

The above relocation process may be accomplished by superimposing a grid on UI much the same as was done for UI discussed above. The image processing would identify relevant layout format elements in UI that are the same as or similar to those of UI and the location of the identified relevant layout format elements from grid location associated with those known images stored in image DB . The relevant elements of may be relocated on in the same locations that they were detected to appear on during the learning process e.g. the known grid positions stored in image DB . Images of UI that do not appear on UI may be placed at a location on UI that matches the layout format of . For example from the images of the superimposed grid of it can be determined that the navigation panel lays vertically down the left side of UI . Consequently navigation elements from the horizontal navigation panel of UI that do not appear on the vertical navigation panel of UI may be appropriately placed on UI so long as they are placed in a vertical navigation panel on the left side of UI . At completion of the conversion process UI will look like UI of which is in a layout format preferred by the user.

An illustration of operation of the user overlay interface application may be seen from method of . At operation client device receives a UI that has a layout format that is not preferred by the user. The user overlay interface application may be activated. At operation images of the UI and other UI information may captured by capture processor of . The images such as characters in the images such as the characters within image and image characteristics such as a cart at a certain location on the interface not shown may be identified at operations and using image processor character recognition engine and source character DB as described above. The location of the images on the non preferred UI may be identified at operation using well known layout methods such as the grid example discussed with respect to . The images characters and characteristics of the non preferred UI may be compared at with known images characters and characteristics of the preferred UI stored as known images in image DB . This comparison results in a determination of images characters and characteristics of the preferred UI that are the same or similar to those of the non preferred UI . The comparison also results in determining their locations on the preferred UI since these locations were stored as associated with the known images in image DB . At operation the user overlay interface application may relocate the comparison determined images characters and characteristics of the non preferred UI to locations determined in the comparison. At operation the application may also relocate images characters and characteristics of UI that are not found in the comparison the relocation being to locations consistent with the layout of the UI with the preferred layout format . This latter relocation applies to images characters and characteristics that are not already in such consistent locations on UI . The result will be the received UI that is now in the layout format preferred by the user as seen at of .

In some applications such as the user overlay interface application accesses the Application Programming Interface API of multiple sites to capture functionality and apply the functionality of system X to system Y. In this situation system X may provide to user device a viewing experience which rotates photos or thumbnails of products by presenting a first image then replacing that with a second image or may provide a feed of images presented in a continuous stream of information or may present the images with arrows on each side enabling the user to scroll through images. The UI for system Y may present the photos in a static format where the user overlay interface application will apply the system X UI functionality for presenting images from system Y. In this way the functionality and presentation of system Y is enhanced.

Additionally certain embodiments described herein may be implemented as logic or a number of modules engines components or mechanisms. A module engine logic component or mechanism collectively referred to as a module may be a tangible unit capable of performing certain operations and configured or arranged in a certain manner. In certain example embodiments one or more computer systems e.g. a standalone client or server computer system or one or more components of a computer system e.g. a processor or a group of processors may be configured by software e.g. an application or application portion or firmware note that software and firmware can generally be used interchangeably herein as may be known by a skilled artisan as a module that operates to perform certain operations described herein.

In various embodiments a module may be implemented mechanically or electronically. For example a module may comprise dedicated circuitry or logic that may be permanently configured e.g. within a special purpose processor application specific integrated circuit ASIC or array to perform certain operations. A module may also comprise programmable logic or circuitry e.g. as encompassed within a general purpose processor or other programmable processor that may be temporarily configured by software or firmware to perform certain operations. It will be appreciated that a decision to implement a module mechanically in dedicated and permanently configured circuitry or in temporarily configured circuitry e.g. configured by software may be driven by for example cost time energy usage and package size considerations.

Accordingly the term module should be understood to encompass a tangible entity be that an entity that may be physically constructed permanently configured e.g. hardwired or temporarily configured e.g. programmed to operate in a certain manner or to perform certain operations described herein. Considering embodiments in which modules or components are temporarily configured e.g. programmed each of the modules or components need not be configured or instantiated at any one instance in time. For example where the modules or components comprise a general purpose processor configured using software the general purpose processor may be configured as respective different modules at different times. Software may accordingly configure the processor to constitute a particular module at one instance of time and to constitute a different module at a different instance of time.

Modules can provide information to and receive information from other modules. Accordingly the described modules may be regarded as being communicatively coupled. Where multiples of such modules exist contemporaneously communications may be achieved through signal transmission e.g. over appropriate circuits and buses that connect the modules. In embodiments in which multiple modules are configured or instantiated at different times communications between such modules may be achieved for example through the storage and retrieval of information in memory structures to which the multiple modules have access. For example one module may perform an operation and store the output of that operation in a memory device to which it may be communicatively coupled. A further module may then at a later time access the memory device to retrieve and process the stored output. Modules may also initiate communications with input or output devices and can operate on a resource e.g. a collection of information .

With reference to an example embodiment extends to a machine in the example form of a computer system within which instructions for causing the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies discussed herein may be executed. In alternative example embodiments the machine operates as a standalone device or may be connected e.g. networked to other machines. In a networked deployment the machine may operate in the capacity of a server or a client machine in server client network environment or as a peer machine in a peer to peer or distributed network environment. The machine may be a personal computer PC a tablet PC a set top box STB a Personal Digital Assistant PDA a cellular telephone a web appliance a network router a switch or bridge or any machine capable of executing instructions sequential or otherwise that specify actions to be taken by that machine. Further while only a single machine may be illustrated the term machine shall also be taken to include any collection of machines that individually or jointly execute a set or multiple sets of instructions to perform any one or more of the methodologies discussed herein.

The example computer system may include a processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via a bus . The computer system may further include a video display unit e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD or a cathode ray tube CRT . In example embodiments the computer system also includes one or more of an alpha numeric input device e.g. a keyboard a user interface UI navigation device or cursor control device e.g. a mouse a disk drive unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker and a network interface device .

The disk drive unit includes a machine readable storage medium on which may be stored one or more sets of instructions and data structures e.g. software instructions embodying or used by any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The instructions may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory or within the processor during execution thereof by the computer system with the main memory and the processor also constituting machine readable media.

While the machine readable storage medium may be shown in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable storage medium may include a single storage medium or multiple storage media e.g. a centralized or distributed database or associated caches and servers that store the one or more instructions. The term machine readable storage medium shall also be taken to include any tangible medium that may be capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of embodiments of the present application or that may be capable of storing encoding or carrying data structures used by or associated with such instructions. The term machine readable storage medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories and optical and magnetic media. Specific examples of machine readable storage media include non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EPROM Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks.

The instructions may further be transmitted or received over a communications network using a transmission medium via the network interface device and utilizing any one of a number of well known transfer protocols e.g. Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP . Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN the Internet mobile telephone networks Plain Old Telephone Service POTS networks and wireless data networks e.g. WiFi and WiMax networks . The term transmission medium shall be taken to include any intangible medium that may be capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and includes digital or analog communications signals or other intangible medium to facilitate communication of such software.

Although an overview of the inventive subject matter has been described with reference to specific example embodiments various modifications and changes may be made to these embodiments without departing from the broader spirit and scope of embodiments of the present application. Such embodiments of the inventive subject matter may be referred to herein individually or collectively by the term invention merely for convenience and without intending to voluntarily limit the scope of this application to any single invention or inventive concept if more than one is in fact disclosed.

The embodiments illustrated herein are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the teachings disclosed. Other embodiments may be used and derived there from such that structural and logical substitutions and changes may be made without departing from the scope of this disclosure. The Detailed Description therefore may be not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of various embodiments may be defined only by the appended claims along with the full range of equivalents to which such claims are entitled.

Moreover plural instances may be provided for resources operations or structures described herein as a single instance. Additionally boundaries between various resources operations modules engines and data stores are somewhat arbitrary and particular operations are illustrated in a context of specific illustrative configurations. Other allocations of functionality are envisioned and may fall within a scope of various embodiments of the present application. In general structures and functionality presented as separate resources in the example configurations may be implemented as a combined structure or resource. Similarly structures and functionality presented as a single resource may be implemented as separate resources. These and other variations modifications additions and improvements fall within a scope of embodiments of the present application as represented by the appended claims. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

