---

title: Data display method and apparatus
abstract: A data display method and apparatus display data efficiently on the screen of an electronic device equipped with a touchscreen. The data display method includes setting a scroll rate to a touch movement distance; detecting a touch gesture in a first region of the touchscreen; scrolling icons in the first region at the scroll rate in response to the touch gesture; and displaying detailed information associated with at least one icon newly displayed according to the scroll in a second region of the touchscreen.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09519397&OS=09519397&RS=09519397
owner: Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
number: 09519397
owner_city: Samsung-ro, Yeongtong-gu, Suwon-si, Gyeonggi-do
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20130830
---
This application claims pursuant to 35 U.S.C. 119 a priority from and the benefit of the earlier filing date of a Korean patent application filed on Aug. 31 2012 in the Korean Intellectual Property Office and assigned Serial No. 10 2012 0096101 the entire disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference.

The present disclosure relates to a data display method and apparatus of an electronic device equipped with a touchscreen.

Mobile terminals in the prior art are used as tools for a wireless voice communication and information exchange. Unlike the early stage of the development of mobile terminals when such early mobile terminals had only been recognized as a portable and radio communication capable device the mobile terminal has become a multifunctional device with the advance of technologies. For example the mobile terminal provides various features including a phonebook a game a short message service an email service a morning call service a music player a schedule organizer a digital camera a device for wireless Internet access etc.

Mobile terminals in the prior art e.g. smartphones are capable of multitasking with the advance in computing unlike other types of mobile terminals in the prior art for example the so called feature phones. For example the multitasking capable mobile terminal allows the user to be aware of an inbound text message while listening to music or watching a movie. As more and more functions are integrated into a mobile terminal there is a need for a sophisticated interface technology facilitating access to the application responsible for a user intended task. The touchscreen is one possible device to accomplish such an interface for the mobile terminal.

Meanwhile scrolling is an action that is performed to navigate through data in vertical and horizontal directions on a display in response to a touch gesture on or near the touchscreen. As the scroll action is performed a part of the data disappears while another part appears on the screen. The scroll function is useful for viewing data too large to display on the screen at one time. However since the scroll range is fixed the user may have to repeat the scroll gesture several times to reach the wanted part of the data.

The present invention includes a data display method and apparatus that are capable of facilitating navigation of data through an improved scroll action on the touchscreen. Also the present invention includes a data display method and apparatus that is capable of configuring a scroll offset i.e. a scroll rate to touch movement distance thereby scrolling the data at a user intended speed. Furthermore the present invention includes a method and apparatus that are capable of dividing the screen into a first region and a second region to reflect the scroll gesture detected in one region to the scroll action in the other region.

In accordance with an aspect of the present invention a data display method of an electronic device having a touchscreen includes setting a scroll rate to a touch movement distance detecting a touch gesture in a first region of the touchscreen scrolling icons in the first region at the scroll rate in response to the touch gesture and displaying detailed information associated with one of at least one icon newly appeared according to the scroll in a second region of the touchscreen.

In accordance with another aspect of the present invention a data display method of the electronic device having a touchscreen includes displaying icons in a first region of the touchscreen and detailed information of one of the icons in a second region of the touchscreen changing a display level of the icons in the first region and displaying detailed information of one of the icons with changed display level in the second region.

In accordance with another aspect of the present invention the electronic device includes a display unit which has a touchscreen including a first region for displaying icons and a second region for displaying detailed information of one of the icons and a control unit which controls setting a scroll rate to a touch movement distance detecting a touch gesture in a first region of the touchscreen scrolling icons in the first region at the scroll rate in response to the touch gesture and displaying detailed information associated with one of at least one icon newly appeared according to the scroll in a second region of the touchscreen.

In accordance with still another aspect of the present invention the electronic device includes a display unit which a touchscreen having a first region for displaying icons and a second region for displaying detailed information of one of the icons and a control unit which controls the display unit to change a display level of the icons in the first region and display the detailed information of one of the icons with changed display level in the second region.

The data display method and apparatus according to an exemplary embodiment of the present invention is applicable to various types of touchscreen enabled electronic devices such as multimedia devices including a smartphone a tablet PC a laptop PC a desktop PC TV a navigation device a video phone etc. The data display method and apparatus of the present invention is also applicable to other known electronic devices such as multimedia enabled devices e.g. a communication function enabled and touchscreen enabled refrigerator.

The data display method and apparatus according to the exemplary embodiment of the present invention displays icons of the first region of the touchscreen and the detailed information of the icon which is selected from the first region in the second region. Here the icon is associated with a characteristic of media or information such as a date or a location. The detailed information can be any of a schedule a memo an exchanged message a photo a video etc. that are associated with the corresponding date or location. The icon also can be a thumbnail image of one of the chapters of a video. Here the chapters can be discriminated by time. For example a chapter may have a running time of about 10 minutes. In this case the detailed information can be a playback screen of one of the chapters.

The data display method and apparatus according to the exemplary embodiment of the present invention are capable of detecting a touch gesture in the first or second region and scrolling the icons in the first region and the detailed information in the second region in response to the touch gesture. As a consequence some old icons disappear and some new icons appear. The detailed information of one of the new icons is displayed in the second region.

According to the exemplary embodiment of the present invention the offset of a scroll i.e. a scroll range may vary. The data display method and apparatus according to the exemplary embodiment of the present invention are capable of setting the scroll rate to touch movement distance. For example if the scroll rate to touch movement distance is set to 1 and if the touch movement distance is 3 cm. in the first region three new icons appear instead of three other icons disappearing in the first region. If the scroll rate to touch movement distance is set to 2 and the touch movement distance is 3 cm. in the first region six new icons appear instead of six other icons disappearing in the first region. In spite of the same movement distance if the scroll rate differs the scroll range varies. The offset can be changed by various touch gestures e.g. tap double tap long tap drag flick press pinch in pinch out etc.

According to the exemplary embodiment of the present invention the display level of the icons can be changed. For example when the icon indicates time the display level can be changed from month to year or year to month . In the case that the display level is month the second region displays the detailed information by month. In the case that the display level is year the second region displays the detailed information by year. When the icon indicates location the display level can be changed from village to city or city to village . In the case that the display level is city the second region displays the detailed information by city. In the case that the display level is village the second region displays the detailed information by village. The display level can be changed with various touch gestures such as tap double tap long tap drag flick press pinch in and pinch out.

The data display method and apparatus according to the exemplary embodiment of the present invention is described in detail hereinafter. A detailed description of well known functions and structures incorporated herein may be omitted to avoid obscuring the subject matter of the present invention. The terms and words used in this description and the appended claims are not to be interpreted in common or lexical meaning but based on the principle that an inventor can adequately define the meanings of terms to best describe the present invention to be interpreted in the meaning and context conforming to the technical aspects of the present invention. Therefore the exemplary embodiment described in the specification and the constructions illustrated in the drawings correspond to the present invention but do not represent all of the technical spirit of the present invention. Accordingly it should be understood that various equivalents and modifications can substitute them at the time of filing the present invention. In the drawings certain elements may be exaggerated or omitted or schematically depicted for clarity of the present invention. In the following the description is directed to an electronic device to which the data display method and apparatus of the present invention are applied.

Exemplary embodiments of the present invention will be described with reference to the accompanying drawings. The present invention may however be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the exemplary embodiments set forth herein. In addition terms described herein which are defined with reference to the functions of the present invention may be implemented differently depending on a user or operator s intention and practice. Therefore the terms should be understood on the basis of the disclosure throughout the specification. The principles and features of the present invention may be employed in varied and numerous exemplary embodiments without departing from the scope of the present invention.

Among the terms set forth herein a terminal a mobile device a portable device or an electronic device refers to any kind of device capable of processing data which is transmitted or received to or from any external entity. The terminal the mobile device the portable device or the electronic device may display icons or menus on a screen to which stored data and various executable functions are assigned or mapped. The terminal the mobile device the portable device or the electronic device may include a computer a notebook a tablet PC a cellphone and any known type of electronic device.

Among the terms set forth herein a screen refers to a display or other output devices which visually display information to the user and which optionally are capable of receiving and electronically processing tactile inputs from a user using a stylo a finger of the user or other techniques for conveying a user selection from the user to the output devices.

Among the terms set forth herein an icon refers to a graphical element such as a figure or a symbol displayed on the screen of the electronic device such that a user can easily select a desired function or data. In particular each icon has a mapping relation with any function being executable in the electronic device or with any data stored in the electronic device and is used for processing functions or selecting data in the electronic device. When a user selects one of the displayed icons the electronic device identifies a particular function or data associated with the selected icon. Then the electronic device executes the identified function or displays the identified data.

Among the terms set forth herein data refers to any kind of information processed by the electronic device including text and or images received from any external entities messages transmitted or received and information created when a specific function is executed by the electronic device.

As shown in the electronic device according to the exemplary embodiment of the present invention includes a display unit a key input unit a storage unit a radio communication unit an audio processing unit a speaker SPK a microphone MIC and a control unit .

The display unit converts the video data input from the control unit to an analog signal to display on the screen of the display unit under the control of the control unit . That is the display unit is capable of displaying various screens associated with the operations of the electronic device such as a lock screen a home screen an application execution screen and a virtual screen based keypad. The lock screen can be defined as an image displayed on the display unit when the electronic device powers on. If a user s unlock gesture is detected the control unit changes the lock screen to the home screen or the application execution screen. The home screen can be defined as an image including icons representing the applications. If the user selects one of the application icons e.g. taps an icon the control unit executes the corresponding application e.g. an organizer application a gallery application a memo application a messaging application etc. and displays the execution screen of the application. The application execution screen can be divided into a first region including the icons indicating times and a second region including detailed information of the icon selected in the first region e.g. a schedule on March 8 . The display unit displays one of the aforementioned screens e.g. an application execution screen in the background and another screen is displayed in the foreground as overlapping the background. The display unit can be implemented with one of a Liquid Crystal Display LCD an Organic Light Emitted Diode OLED and an Active Matrix OLED AMOLED .

The display unit is provided with a touchscreen as a user interface for interaction with the user. The touchscreen can be implemented on the display unit using any type of touchscreen known in the art. The touchscreen generates an analog signal e.g. touch event in response to a user gesture and converts the analog signal to a digital signal with the signal being transferred to the control unit . The control unit detects the user gesture based on the touch event. The user s gesture can be classified into one of a touch and a touch gesture. The touch gestures include a tap a double tap a long tap a drag a drag and drop a flick a press etc. Here a touch is a user s gesture of contacting a position on the screen with a touch device e.g. finger and stylus pen a tap is a user s gesture of contacting a position on the screen with the touch device and releasing the contact touch off without moving the touch device a double tap is a user s gesture of performing the tap twice a long tap is a user s gesture of maintaining the contact for a relatively long time as compared to the tap and then releasing the contact a drag is a user s gesture of contacting a position and moving the contact on the screen in a certain direction a drag and drop is a user s gesture of performing the drag gesture and then releasing the contact of the touch device a flick is a user s gesture of snapping or tapping on the screen quickly as compared to the drag gesture and a press is a user s gesture of contacting at a certain position on the screen and applying pressure. That is the touch refers to the state of maintaining contact on the screen and the touch gesture refers to the behavior of making the contact touch on and then releasing the contact touch off . The touch panel may include a pressure sensor for detecting the pressure of a press applied at the touched position. The detected pressure information is transferred to the control unit and the control unit discriminates between a touch and a press based on the pressure information.

The touch panel can be implemented as a combined touch panel including a finger touch panel for detecting a gesture made by a part of the human body such as a finger and a pen touch panel for detecting a pen gesture made by a pen stylus or other pen like objects. Here the finger touch panel can be implemented as a capacitive type panel and the finger touch panel is capable of detecting the touch gesture made by a certain object e.g. a conductive material capable of changing electrostatic capacity as well as a part of the human body. The pen touch panel can be implemented with an electromagnetic induction type panel. In this case the pen touch panel generates a touch event in response to the gesture made by the touch pen or stylus such as a pen manufactured to generate a magnetic field.

The key input unit is provided with a plurality of keys for receiving alphanumeric information and configuring various functions. The function keys may include menu keys a screen on off key a power on off key a volume control key etc. The key input unit is capable of generating a key event to the control unit in association with a user setting and function control of the apparatus . The key events may include a power on off event a volume control event a screen on off event etc. The control unit controls the components of the apparatus in response to these key events. The keys of the key input unit are referred to as hard keys while the virtual keys such as icons provided on the touchscreen are referred to as soft keys.

The storage unit is a memory unit implemented with a memory such as NAND flash memory. The storage unit can be divided into a program region and a data region. The storage unit is capable of storing data generated in the electronic device and or received from external devices using the radio communication unit under the control of the control unit . The storage unit stores an Operating System OS of the electronic device and various application programs. The storage unit is also capable of storing embedded applications and third party application. The embedded applications are basic applications installed in the electronic device . The embedded applications may include a browser an email application an instant messenger application etc. The third party applications are diverse applications that can be downloaded from an online market or other online sources as well as external networks and installed in the electronic device . The third party applications can be installed and uninstalled freely. If the electronic device is powered on a booting program is loaded into a main memory device e.g. RAM of the control unit . The booting program loads the OS of the electronic device into the main memory device. The OS loads the application programs into the main memory device and executes the application programs selectively. In particular in the exemplary embodiment of the present invention if a connection with an external device is detected the OS loads a data communication program into the main memory device and executes the data communication program. Since the booting and load process is well known in the computing field a detailed description thereof is omitted herein.

The radio communication unit is responsible for voice video and data communication under the control of the control unit . For this purpose the radio communication unit may include a Radio Frequency RF transmitter for up converting and amplifying signals to be transmitted and an RF receiver for low noise amplifying and down converting the received signal. The radio communication unit may include at least one of a cellular communication module a 3rd Generation 3G cellular communication module a 3.5G cellular communication module a 4G cellular communication module etc. a digital broadcast module e.g. a DMB module and a short range communication module e.g. a module for implementing WI FI a wireless technology for data exchange over a computer network commercially available from the WI FI ALLIANCE and a module for implementing BLUETOOTH a short range wireless communications technology at the 2.4 GHz band commercially available from the BLUETOOTH SPECIAL INTEREST GROUP INC. .

The audio processing unit is connected to the speaker SPK and the microphone MIC and processes input and output audio data for supporting voice recognition voice recording digital recording and telephony functions. The audio processing unit receives audio data output from the control unit converts the audio data to an analog signal and outputs the analog signal through the speaker SPK . The speaker SPK converts the analog signal from the audio processing unit to output an audible sound wave. The microphone MIC converts a voice and other sound waves to an analog signal. The audio processing unit receives the analog signal input through the microphone converts the analog signal to audio data and transfers the audio data to the control unit .

The control unit controls the overall operations of the electronic device and signal flows among the internal components of the electronic device and processes data. The control unit may include the main memory device for storing the OS and application programs a cache memory for storing data to be written into the storage unit temporarily or permanently and read from the storage unit a Central Processing Unit CPU a Graphic Processing Unit GPU etc. Here the OS is responsible for providing an interface between hardware and programs and manages computing resources such as the CPU the GPU the main memory device and any auxiliary memory device. The OS operates the electronic device schedules tasks and controls operations of the CPU and GPU. The OS is also responsible for controlling program execution and data and file storage management. As well known in the prior art the CPU may be the main control unit of a computer system which performs a data operation and comparison and command interpretation and execution. The GPU is a graphic control unit for performing a graphic related data operation and comparison and command interpretation and execution. Each of the CPU and the GPU can be integrated into a package of a single integrated circuit including two or more independent cores e.g. quad core . The CPU and GPU may also be integrated into a chip in the form of a System on Chip SoC . The CPU and the GPU may also be implemented in the form of a multi layered package. The packaged CPU and GPU may be referred to as an Application Processor AP .

The functions of the control unit will be described in association with the components and the method of the present invention hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings.

In alternative exemplary embodiments the electronic device may also include at least one of an acceleration sensor a gyro sensor a camera a Global Positioning System GPS module a vibration motor a Near Field Communication NFC module an external device connection interface for data communication with an external device e.g. other electronic devices a desktop PC a laptop PC a headphone etc. through a wired connection etc.

The electronic device according to the exemplary embodiment of the present invention can be implemented with or without any of the aforementioned components depending on the implementation of the present invention using the electronic device and the components thereof. is a flowchart illustrating the data display method according to the exemplary embodiment of the present invention.

Referring to the control unit controls the display unit to display the icons in the first region of the touchscreen at step . At this time the control unit controls the display unit to display the detailed information of one of the icons in the second region. For example the first region can be arranged at the bottom part of the screen and the second region at the top part or vice versa. Also the first region can be arranged at the left part of the screen and the second region at the right part or vice versa. The first region can overlap the second region. That is the icons can be presented in the detailed information. In this case the icons may be presented in a semi transparent manner. In the first region the icons can be arranged horizontally or vertically.

The control unit sets the ratio between the touch movement distance and the scroll amount at step . The control unit detects a touch gesture in the first region and sets the ratio in response to the touch gesture. Step is described in more detail with reference to . The control unit detects the movement of the touch e.g. drag or flick in the first region at step .

The control unit controls the display unit to scroll the icons at a preset ratio in response to the movement of the touch at step . For example when the ratio is set to 1 if the touch movement distance is for example 3 cm three icons are scrolled to appear into and to be displayed in the first region while three other icons are scrolled to disappear out of and to no longer be displayed in the first region. In another example when the ratio is set to 2 if the touch movement distance is 3 cm six icons are scrolled to appear into and to be displayed in the first region while six other icons are scrolled to disappear out of and to no longer be displayed in the first region. Meanwhile the control unit is capable of controlling the display unit such that the scrolling is initiated only when the arrangement direction of the icons and the touch movement direction are identical with each other. For example if the touch moves in the vertical direction in the state that the icons are arranged horizontally no scroll action is initiated.

The control unit selects at least one of the newly displayed icons e.g. the last icon to be newly displayed and controls the display unit to display the detailed information of the selected icon in the second region at step . Here the selected icon can be displayed to be differentiated from other unselected icons. For example the selected icon can be displayed with a bold outline or a different background color compared to the background colors of the other icons. The selected icon is also capable of being displayed with a mark e.g. indicating that the selected icon is the icon of which detailed information is presented.

Referring to the control unit detects a multi touch gesture in the first region e.g. a touch at two positions in the first region at step . As described above the first region is a region where the icons are arranged on the touchscreen .

If the multi touch gesture is the pinch in gesture the control unit sets the scroll rate to the touch movement distance to a relatively high value at step . That is the control unit increases the scroll rate as the two touch points become close. For example if the distance between the two touch points decreases from 3 cm. to 1 cm. in the state that the scroll rate is set to 1 the control unit increases the scroll rate to 2. At step the control unit also increases the number of icons to be displayed in the first region. For example if the scroll rate increases from 1 to 2 the control unit increases the number of icons to be displayed in the first region from 3 to 6. After step the method of ends.

However in step if the multi touch is a pinch out gesture the control unit sets the scroll rate to the touch movement distance to a relatively low value at step . That is the control unit decreases the scroll rate as the two touch points become distant. For example if the distance between the two touch points increases from 1 cm. to 3 cm. in the state that the scroll rate is set to 2 the control unit decreases the scroll rate to 1. At step the control unit also decreases the number of icons to be displayed in the first region. For example if the scroll rate decreases from 2 to 1 the control unit decreases the number of icons to be displayed in the first region from 6 to 3. After step the method of ends.

In contrast to the case of step the electronic device can be configured such that the scroll rate decreases with the reduction of the number of icons in the detection of a pinch in gesture. Also in contrast to the case of step the electronic device may be configured such that the scroll rate increases with the increase of the number of icons in the detection of a pinch out gesture. The initial or default scroll rate may be set to 1 the initial or default scroll rate to the touch movement distance may be set to 1 cm and the initial or default number of icons to be displayed in the first region or the initial or default number of new icons to be displayed in the first region during scrolling for a predetermined distance of for example 1 cm may be set to 1.

Each of these initial or default parameters including the scroll rate the scroll rate to the touch movement distance the number of icons to be displayed in the first region and the number of new icons to be displayed in the first region during scrolling of a predetermined distance such as 1 cm may be set at the time of manufacture of the electronic device and stored in the control unit and or the storage unit and such parameters may be customized by the user of the electronic device .

Although the description of is directed to the case where the offset i.e. the scroll ratio to the touch movement distance is set in association with the pinch in and pinch out gestures the present invention is not limited thereto but the scroll rate can be set in association with other touch gestures. For example the control unit is capable of setting the scroll ratio in proportion to a time duration of a press gesture.

Referring to screen a of the display unit displays the icons to in the first region of the screen a under the control of the control unit . The icons to indicate the dates of December 2011 January 2012 and February 2012 respectively. When an icon is selected the second region displays detailed information associated with the selected icon. The selected icon may be highlighted or otherwise may have its appearance changed to distinguish the selected icon from the non selected icons. For example in screen a the display unit highlights the icon for example by graying the background color of the icon and also displays the detailed information associated with the icon in the second region i.e. the schedules in February 2012. The control unit detects a right flick gesture in the second region with the right flick gesture represented by a gray rightward arrow corresponding to the direction of the flick gesture and overlapping the detailed information in the second region .

Referring to screen b of the control unit scrolls the icons of the first region and the detailed information of the second region in response to the right flick gesture in screen a . That is the control unit controls the display unit to remove the icon and add the new icon corresponding to schedules for November 2011 and to alter the location of the icons such that the screens a and b simulate the icon disappearing out of the right side of the first region and the icon appearing from the left side of the first region . The control unit also controls the display unit such that the icon is highlighted for example to have a gray background and the detailed information associated with the icon located at the right most side of the first region i.e. the schedules of January 2012 is displayed in the second region . In addition referring to screen b the control unit detects a pinch in gesture in the first region represented by a pair of gray arrows having arrowheads facing each other and overlapping the icons in the first region .

Referring to screen c of the control unit increases the number of icons to be displayed in the first region in response to the pinch in gesture on the screen b . That is the control unit adds the icons to to the icons in the first region . The total number of icons increases from 3 to 6 in response to the pinch in gesture . However the icon remains highlighted in the first region and the corresponding detailed information continues to be displayed in the second region . Next in screen c the control unit detects the left flick gesture in the second region represented by a gray leftward arrow overlapping the detailed information in the second region .

Referring to screen d of the control unit scrolls the icons and of the first region and changes the detailed information of the second region in response to the left flick gesture in screen c . That is the control unit controls the display unit such that the icon disappears out of the left side to be removed from being displayed in the first region and the icon appears from the right side of the screen to be displayed in the first region . The control unit also controls the display unit such that the detailed information associated with the icon located at the right most side for schedules in February 2012 of the first region is displayed in the second region .

Referring to screen a of the display unit displays the icons to in the first region under the control of the control unit . The icons represent August to December 2011 and January 2012 respectively. The display unit also displays the detailed information associated with the highlighted icon i.e. schedules in January 2012 in the second region . The control unit detects a left flick in the first region represented by a leftward gray arrow overlapping the icons in the first region . Here the movement distance of the left flick corresponds to the width of one icon.

Referring to screen b of the control unit scrolls the icons of the first region in response to the left flick in the screen a . That is the control unit controls the display unit such that the icon disappears out of the left side and the icon appears from the right side of the first region . The control unit also controls the display unit such that the icon is highlighted and the detailed information associated with the icon i.e. the schedules in February 2012 are displayed in the second region . Next the control unit detects a left flick in the first region represented by a leftward gray arrow overlapping the icons . The movement distance of the left flick corresponds to the width of five icons.

Referring to screen c of the control unit scrolls the icons of the first region in response to the left flick in screen b . That is the control unit controls the display unit such that the five icons to corresponding to the five icon width of the left flick disappear out of the left side of the first region and the old icon as well as the new icons and appear sequentially from the left side of the first region with the right most icon being highlighted. The control unit also controls the display unit such that the detailed information associated with the icon located at the right most side of the first region which corresponds to schedules in July 2012 is displayed in the second region . Thus the schedule application icons and schedules for each time period of each icon may be selected controlled scrolled through and displayed depending on the flicks and other touch gestures on the first regions and on the second regions in respectively.

Referring to screen a of the display unit displays the icons to in the first region and the detailed information associated with the highlighted icon in the second region . That is the display unit displays the thumbnail images of the still and motion pictures taken in February 2012 in the second region . Next the control unit detects a right flick in the second region represented by the rightward gray arrow overlapping the images in the second region .

Referring to screen b of the control unit scrolls the icons of the first region and the detailed information of the second region in response to the right flick in screen a . That is the icon disappears out of the right side of the first region and the icon appears from the left side of the first region . As a consequence the detailed information associated with the icon is replaced with the detailed information associated with the highlighted icon in the second region . In addition in the screen b the control unit detects a pinch out in the first region represented by the pair of gray arrows facing away from each other and overlapping the icons in the first region .

Referring to screen c of the control unit increases the number of icons to be displayed in the first region from 3 to 6 in response to the pinch out in the screen b . Next the control unit detects a right flick in the second region represented by a rightward gray arrow overlapping the images in the second region to display the screen d with icons for the months July 2011 to December 2011 with the rightmost icon for December 2011 being highlighted and the images in the second region corresponding to the highlighted icon for December 2011.

Referring to screen d of the control unit scrolls the icons of the first region in screen c leftward in response to the right flick to show icons for the months July 2011 to December 2011 in screen d and the detailed information of the second region is changed to the images for the rightmost highlighted icon for December 2011 in response to the right flick . That is the right most icon for January 2012 in screen c moves leftward and disappears out of the leftmost side of the first region and a new icon for December 2011 appears from the right side of the first region and moves to be displayed in the rightmost position in the first region in screen d . As a consequence the detailed information associated with the new right most icon of the first region corresponding to December 2011 is displayed in the second region in screen d . Next referring to screen d the control unit detects a left flick in the first region represented by the leftward gray arrow overlapping the icons in the first region of screen d . The movement distance of the left flick corresponds to the width of five icons.

Referring to screen e of the control unit scrolls the icons of the first regions in response to the left flick . As a consequence five icons corresponding to July 2011 to November 2011 disappear out of the left side of the first region in screen d and five new icons corresponding to January 2012 to May 2012 appear from the right side of the first region in screen e . The detailed information associated with the right most highlighted icon i.e. still and motion pictures taken in May 2012 is displayed in the second region in screen e . Next the control unit detects a pinch in in the first region in screen e represented by a pair of facing gray arrows overlapping the icons in the first region in screen e .

Referring to screen f of the control unit decreases the number of icons to be displayed in the first region in response to the pinch in on screen e . That is the number of icons decreases from 6 to 3 as shown in screen e to show only icons from March 2012 to May 2012.

Referring to screen a of the display unit displays the icons to indicating dates of messages in the first region under the control of the control unit . The display unit displays the detailed information associated with the icon i.e. messages exchanged with another electronic device today in the second region arranged left side of the first region with the icon being highlighted. In this state the control unit detects a downward flick in the second region represented by the downward gray arrow overlapping the messages in the second region .

Referring to screen b of the control unit scrolls the icons of the first region and the detailed information of the second region in response to the downward flick in screen a . As a consequence the icon disappears out of the bottom side of the first region and the icon appears from the top side of the first region with the bottom most icon for messages from yesterday being highlighted and detailed information such as messages from yesterday are displayed in the second region . Alternatively if there is additional detailed information associated with the icon only the detailed information is scrolled in the second region i.e. an additional message exchanged with the other electronic device appears without scrolling of the icons in the first region . Next the control unit detects a pinch in in the first region in the screen b represented by the facing gray arrows overlapping the icons in the first region .

Referring to screen c of the control unit increases the number of icons to be displayed in the first region from 3 to 6 in response to the pinch in in screen b . As a consequence the icons to are added to the first region but the icons remains highlighted and the detailed information for the icon remains in the second region . Next the control unit detects an upward flick in the first region represented by the upward gray arrow overlapping the first region in the screen c . As shown in screen c the movement distance of the upward flick corresponds to the vertical length of one icon.

Referring to screen d of the control unit scrolls the icons of the first region upward so that the icon for today appears at the bottom most position in the first region with the icon highlighted and the detailed information of the second region is changed to the detailed information that is the messages of today in response to the upward flick . As a consequence the icon disappears out of the top side of the first region and the icon appears from the bottom of the first region . Next the control unit detects a downward flick in the first region . As shown in the screen d the downward flick corresponds to the vertical length of five icons with the downward flick represented by the downward gray arrow overlapping the first region in the screen d .

Referring to screen e of the control unit scrolls the icons in screen d downward as far as five icons in response to the download flick in screen d . As a consequence the icons to disappear out of the bottom side of the first region and the icons and appear from the top side of the first region . At this time the second region displays the detailed information associated with the icon highlighted and positioned at the bottom most side of the first region . Next the control unit detects a pinch out in the first region represented by the pair of opposite facing gray arrows overlapping the first region .

Referring to screen f of the control unit decreases the number of icons to be displayed in the first region from 6 to 3 in response to the pinch in on the screen e so that only the icons for March 26 28 are displayed in the first region with the icon for March 28 being highlighted and the detailed information for March 28 being displayed in the second region .

Referring to the control unit controls the display unit to display icons in the first region of the touchscreen at step . At step the control unit also controls the display unit to display the detailed information associated with one of the icons in the second region of the touchscreen . Here the first and second regions can be arranged separately. The first region is also capable of overlapping the second region. In this case the icons are displayed in a semi transparent manner.

The control unit changes the display level of the icons in the first region at step . Step is described in more detail with reference to .

The control unit controls the display unit to display the detailed information of one of the icons changed in display level in the second region at step .

Referring to the control unit detects a multi touch in the first region e.g. a simultaneous touch at two positions of the first region at step . As aforementioned the first region is the region for displaying icons on the touchscreen .

If it is determined that the multi touch is a touch out or a pinch out in step the control unit increases the display level of the icons at step and the method of then ends and the controller proceeds to step in . The display levels refer to a hierarchy of detail stored in the storage unit by which items such as messages and images are organized by units of time of location of distance etc. For example in the case that the icons are associated with images such as photos or messages and when such images and messages were taken transmitted or received the display level changes from month to year . In the case of the icons are associated with locations such as places to go to in a schedule the display level changes from village to city .

However if it is determined in step that the multi touch is a touch in or a pinch in the control unit decreases the display level of the icons at step and the method of then ends and the controller proceeds to step in . For example in the case that the icons are associated with times the display level changes from year to month . In the case that the icons are associated with locations the display level changes from city to village . Alternatively in step the display level can be decreased for a pinch out. Also alternatively in step the display level can be increased for a pinch in.

Although the description herein for the present invention has been directed to the case of setting the display level in association with the pinch in and pinch out gestures the present invention is not limited thereto but instead the display level can be set in association with other touch gestures. For example the control unit is capable of setting the display level in proportion to the length of maintaining a press gesture.

Referring to screen a of the display unit displays the high level icons to in the first region of the screen a under the control of the control unit . The high level icons to indicates years 2007 to 2012 respectively. The display unit also displays the detailed information associated with the high level icon i.e. the thumbnails images of still and motion pictures taken in year 2012. In this state the control unit detects a right flick in the second region represented by a rightward gray arrow overlapping the images in the second region .

Referring to screen b of the control unit scrolls the high level icons of the first region and the detailed information of the second region in response to the right flick in screen a . As a consequence the icons to move to the left in the first region by one column or by one icon. Accordingly the high level icon disappears out of the right side of the first display region and the high level icon appears from the left side of the first display region . In the second region the detailed information associated with the high level icon is replaced with the detailed information associated with the high level icon which is newly located at the right most side of the first region . Next the control unit detects a pinch out in the first region represented by opposite facing gray arrows overlapping the icons and in the first region .

Referring to screen c of the control unit decreases the display level of the high level icons to and by one step or level so as to display the low level icons to corresponding to a lower level associated with the current or selected icon being the rightmost icon for which the detailed information is displayed in the second region in response to the pinch out on the screen b . The display unit also displays the detailed information associated with the low level icon located at the right most side of the first region i.e. thumbnail images of still and motion pictures taken in December 2011 in the second region under the control of the control unit . In this state the control unit detects a left flick in the second region represented by a leftward gray arrow overlapping the images in the second region .

Referring to screen d of the control unit moves the low level icons to to the left by one column or one icon in response to the left flick in screen c . As a consequence the low level icon disappears out of the left side of the first region and the low level icon appears from the right side of the first region . The control unit also controls the display unit such that the detailed information associated with the low level icon is displayed in the second region . Next the control unit detects a left flick in the first region represented by the leftward gray arrow overlapping the icons in the first region . The movement distance of the left flick corresponds to the width of five columns i.e. five icons .

Referring to screen e of the control unit moves the low level icons to the left in the first region by five columns or icons in response to the left flick on the screen d . As a consequence the low level icons to disappear out of the left side of the first region and the low level icons to and to appear from the right side of the first region . The control unit also controls the display unit such that the detailed information associated with the low level icon located at the right most side of the first region is displayed in the second region . Next the control unit detects a pinch in in the first region represented by the facing gray arrows overlapping the icons and in the first region .

Referring to screen f of the control unit increases the display level of the low level icons and by one step or one level so as to display the icons to in the first region in response to the pinch in on the screen e . The control unit also controls the display unit such that the detailed information associated with the high level icon located at the right most side of the first region among the high level icons in the second region is displayed.

Referring to screen a of the display unit displays the low level icons to indicating dates in the first region under the control of the control unit . The display unit also displays the detailed information associated with the low level icon i.e. messages exchanged with another electronic device on November 7 in the second region arranged on the left side of the first region . In this state the control unit detects a download flick in the second region represented by the downward gray arrow overlapping the messages in the second region .

Referring to screen b of the control unit scrolls the low level icons of the first region and the detailed information of the second region in response to the downward flick . As a consequence the low level icon disappears out of the bottom side of the first region and the low level icon appears from the top side of the first region . Accordingly the detailed information of the low level icon located at the bottom most side of the first region is displayed in the second region . In this state the control unit detects a pinch in in the first region represented by facing gray arrows overlapping the icons in the first region .

Referring to screen c of the control unit changes the display level of the low level icons to by one step or one level so as to display the high level icons to in response to the pinch in in the screen b . The control unit also controls the display unit such that detailed information associated with the high level icon located at the bottom of the first region is displayed in the second region . In this state the control unit detects an upward flick in the second region represented by an upward arrow overlapping the messages in the second region .

Referring to screen d of the control unit scrolls the detailed information of the second region in response to the upward flick in the screen c . As a consequence the detailed information associated with the high level icon is replaced with the detailed information associated with the high level icon . At this time the high level icons to in the first region move by one row i.e. by one icon . As a consequence the icon disappears out of the top side of the first region and the high level icon appears at the bottom side of the first region . In this state the control unit detects a downward flick in the first region represented by the downward gray arrow overlapping the icons and in the first region .

Referring to screen e of the control unit scrolls the high level icons and downward in response to the downward flick on the screen d . As a consequence the high level icon and the high level icons to disappear out of the bottom side of the first region and the high level icons and to appear from the top side of the first region . Also the detailed information associated with the high level icon located at the bottom side of the first region is displayed in the second region . In this state the control unit detects a pinch out in the first region represented by the opposite facing gray arrows overlapping the icons and in the first region .

Referring to screen f of the control unit changes the high level icons to the low level icons to in response to the pinch out on the screen f . Here the high level icon corresponding to the low level icons to can be the high level icon selected before the detection of the pinch out in the screen e .

As described above the data display method and apparatus of the present invention is capable of scrolling the data displayed on the touchscreen efficiently according to the user s intention. Also the data display method and apparatus of the present invention is capable of adjusting the scroll offset i.e. the scroll rate to the touch movement distance so as to control the scroll speed as the user intended. Also the data display method and apparatus of the present invention divides the screen into the first and second regions and reflects the scroll gesture detected in one region to the scroll action in the other region.

The above described data display methods according to the exemplary embodiments of the present invention can be implemented in the form of computer executable program commands and stored in a non transitory computer readable storage medium. The non transitory computer readable storage medium may store the program commands data files and data structures in individual or combined forms. The program commands recorded in the non transitory storage medium may be designed and implemented for various exemplary embodiments of the present invention or used by those skilled in the computer software field. The non transitory computer readable storage medium includes magnetic media such as a floppy disk and a magnetic tape optical media including a Compact Disc CD ROM and a Digital Video Disc DVD ROM a magneto optical media such as a floptical disk and the hardware device designed for storing and executing program commands such as ROM RAM and flash memory. The programs commands include the language code executable by computers using the interpreter as well as the machine language codes created by a compiler. The aforementioned hardware device can be implemented with at least one software module for executing the operations of the various exemplary embodiments of the present invention.

The above described apparatus and methods of the disclosure can be implemented in hardware or firmware or as software or computer code or combinations thereof. Various components such as a controller a central processing unit CPU a processor and any unit or device described herein includes at least hardware and or other physical structures and elements. In addition the software or computer code can also be stored in a non transitory recording medium such as a CD ROM a RAM a ROM whether erasable or rewritable or not a floppy disk CDs DVDs memory chips a hard disk a magnetic storage media an optical recording media or a magneto optical disk or computer code downloaded over a network originally stored on a remote recording medium a computer readable recording medium or a non transitory machine readable medium and to be stored on a local recording medium so that the methods described herein can be rendered in such software computer code software modules software objects instructions applications applets apps etc. that is stored on the recording medium using a general purpose computer a digital computer or a special processor or in programmable or dedicated hardware such as an ASIC or FPGA. As would be understood in the art the computer the processor microprocessor controller or the programmable hardware include volatile and or non volatile storage and memory components e.g. RAM ROM Flash etc. that may store or receive software or computer code that when accessed and executed by the computer processor or hardware implement the processing methods described herein. In addition it would be recognized that when a general purpose computer accesses code for implementing the processing shown herein the execution of the code transforms the general purpose computer into a special purpose computer for executing the processing shown herein. In addition the program may be electronically transferred through any medium such as communication signals transmitted by wire wireless connections and their equivalents. The programs and computer readable recording medium can also be distributed in network coupled computer systems so that the computer readable code is stored and executed in a distributed fashion.

The data display method and apparatus of the present invention is not limited to the above described exemplary embodiments but can be practiced with the various modifications without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention.

