---

title: Reading memory elements within a crossbar array
abstract: A method for reading the state of a memory element within a crossbar memory array includes storing a first electric current sensed from a half-selected target memory element within the crossbar memory array; and outputting a final electric current based on the stored first electric current and a second electric current sensed from the target memory element when the target memory element is fully selected.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09025365&OS=09025365&RS=09025365
owner: Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P.
number: 09025365
owner_city: Houston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130521
---
The present application is a divisional application of Ser. No. 12 786 073 filed on May 24 2010 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 647 253 issued on 18 Jun. 2013 the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

This invention has been made with government support under Contract No. HR0011 09 3 0001 awarded by the Defense Advanced Research Project Agency. The government has certain rights in the invention.

As the use of digital data increases the demand for faster smaller and more efficient memory structures used for storing that digital data increases. One type of memory structure which has recently been developed is a crossbar memory structure. A crossbar memory structure includes a set of upper parallel wires which intersect a set of lower parallel wires. A programmable memory element is placed at the intersections between the upper and lower parallel lines. The programmable memory element may store digital data.

One type of programmable memory element which may be used is a memristive element. A memristive element is a device which changes the state of its resistance based on an applied programming condition. For example a programming condition may be applied to change the memristive element from a high resistive state to a low resistive state or vice versa. A high resistive state may represent a digital 1 and a low resistive state may represent a digital 0 .

One challenge that results from use of a crossbar memory structure is the process of reading the state of a specific memory element. The state of a memory element may be determined by applying a sensing condition such as a sense voltage or a sense electric current. The behavior of the sensing condition when applied to a memory element may be indicative of the current state of that memory element. However when applying sensing conditions in such a manner the sensing condition will be adversely affected by other memory elements along the upper wire and along the lower wire to which the memory element to be read is connected. Thus it is difficult to isolate the memory element to be read from other memory elements within the crossbar array for the purpose of reading the state of the memory element.

Throughout the drawings identical reference numbers designate similar but not necessarily identical elements.

As mentioned above one challenge that results from use of a crossbar memory structure is the process of reading the state of a specific memory element. The state of a memory element may be determined by applying a sensing condition such as a sense voltage or a sense electric current. The behavior of the sensing condition when applied to a memory element may be indicative of the current state of that memory element. However when applying sensing conditions in such a manner the sensing condition will be adversely affected by other memory elements along the upper wire and lower wire to which the memory element to be read is connected. Thus it is difficult to isolate the desired memory element from other memory elements within the crossbar array.

One solution has been to use isolation elements such as diodes and transistors which may selectively inhibit the flow of electric current from unselected memory elements. However this approach requires the use of several additional electronic components for each memory element. Thus the overall density of the memory array is decreased when using such isolation elements.

In light of these and other issues the present specification discloses a method for accurately sensing the state of a target memory element without the need of such isolation elements. For purposes of illustration the two sets of intersecting parallel lines will be referred to as row lines and column lines. Either the row or column lines may be the upper or lower lines.

According to certain illustrative examples a column line connected to a target memory element is selected. By selecting the column line every memory element along the device becomes half selected. The electric current flowing through the selected column line at this point is a result of bias voltages applied to the row lines intersecting the selected column line and is not indicative of the state of the target memory element. The electric current flowing from the selected column line at this point is stored in a storage element such as a sample and hold circuit.

After storing the electric current flowing from the selected column line the target memory element may then be fully selected. To fully select the target memory element a sense voltage is applied to the row line connected to the target memory element. By applying the sense voltage to the row line all memory elements along that row line become half selected except for the target memory element which is now fully selected. The electric current flowing from the column line is then again measured. The electric current measured and stored when the target memory element was only half selected is then subtracted from the electric current sensed while the target memory element is fully selected. Thus the ideal resulting final electric current value will include only the electric current from the target memory element.

A system or method embodying principles described herein allows the state of memory elements within a crossbar memory structure to be accurately read without the need of isolation elements. Thus a memory structure having a higher density may be realized. Additionally the cost of designing implementing and manufacturing such a memory structure may be reduced.

In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present systems and methods. It will be apparent however to one skilled in the art that the present apparatus systems and methods may be practiced without these specific details. Reference in the specification to an embodiment an example or similar language means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment or example is included in at least that one embodiment but not necessarily in other embodiments. The various instances of the phrase in one embodiment or similar phrases in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

Throughout this specification and in the appended claims the term memory structure is to be broadly interpreted as the physical structure of an electronic circuit designed to store digital data. A memory structure may include a number of programmable devices configured to be set to a number of different states.

Throughout this specification and in the appended claims the term crossbar array is to be broadly interpreted as a number of lower wire segments configured to intersect a number of upper wire segments. A programmable logic device is disposed at each crosspoint between an upper wire segment and a lower wire segment.

Throughout this specification and in the appended claims the term memory element is to be broadly interpreted as a component configured to be programmed with a value or state and maintain that value or state to be read at a later time.

Throughout this specification and in the appended claims the terms row lines and column lines are used to differentiate between a first set of parallel lines intersecting a second set of parallel lines. Either the row or column lines may be the upper set of lines in any particular application.

Referring now to the figures is a diagram showing an illustrative crossbar memory architecture . According to certain illustrative examples the crossbar architecture may include an upper set of lines which may generally be in parallel. Additionally a lower set of lines may be generally perpendicular to and intersect the upper lines . Programmable memory devices are formed at the intersections between an upper line and a lower line .

According to certain illustrative examples the programmable memory devices may be memristive devices. Memristive devices exhibit a memory of past electrical conditions. For example a memristive device may include a matrix material which contains mobile dopants. These dopants can be moved within a matrix to dynamically alter the electrical operation of an electrical device.

The motion of dopants can be induced by the application of a programming condition such as an applied electrical voltage across a suitable matrix. The programming voltage generates a relatively high electrical field through the memristive matrix and alters the distribution of dopants. After removal of the electrical field the location and characteristics of the dopants remain stable until the application of another programming electrical field. For example by changing the dopant configurations within a memristive matrix the electrical resistance of the device may be altered. The memristive device is read by applying a lower reading voltage which allows the internal electrical resistance of the memristive device to be sensed but does not generate a high enough electrical field to cause significant dopant motion. Consequently the state of the memristive device may remain stable over long time periods and through multiple read cycles.

According to certain illustrative examples the crossbar architecture may be used to form a non volatile memory array. Non volatile memory has the characteristic of not losing its contents when no power is being supplied. Each of the programmable memory devices is used to represent one or more bits of data. Although individual crossbar lines in are shown with rectangular cross sections crossbars may also have square circular elliptical or more complex cross sections. The lines may also have many different widths diameters aspect ratios and or eccentricities. The crossbars may be nanowires sub microscale wires microscale wires or wires with larger dimensions.

According to certain illustrative examples the crossbar architecture may be integrated into a Complimentary Metal Oxide Semiconductor CMOS circuit or other conventional computer circuitry. Each individual wire segment may be connected to the CMOS circuitry by a via . The via may be embodied as an electrically conductive path through the various substrate materials used in manufacturing the crossbar architecture. This CMOS circuitry can provide additional functionality to the memristive device such as input output functions buffering logic configuration or other functionality. Multiple crossbar arrays can be formed over the CMOS circuitry to create a multilayer circuit.

According to one illustrative example a target memory element is selected by selecting a column line connected to the target memory element and selecting a row line connected to the target memory element . A row line or column line may be selected by setting a select switch attached to the row or column to an ON state. When a switch is in an ON state electric current is allowed to flow through the switch. When a column line becomes selected a read voltage forms on the selected column line .

Although many different switching devices may be used the switching device shown in is a Metal Oxide Semiconductor Field Effect Transistor MOSFET device. A MOSFET device either allows or inhibits the flow of electric current between the drain terminal and the source terminal depending on the signal received at the gate terminal. In the present configuration the source terminal is connected to the upper line and the drain terminal is connected to a sense element . The gate terminal may be connected to addressing circuitry used to select a particular memory element.

As mentioned above when a column line is selected all of the memory elements along that selected column line including the target memory element become half selected. When the column line becomes selected an electric current will flow from the column line across the select switch and to the sense element . The electric current flowing from the column line may be referred to as the sense current .

The sense current flowing from the column line while the target memory element is half selected is resulting in part from any bias voltages which are placed along the unselected row lines . The sense current flowing from the column line while the target memory element is half selected may also be affected by the resistive state of various unselected memory elements and half selected memory elements within the array . The sense current flowing from the selected column line while the target memory element is half selected is not relevant to the process of sensing the resistive state of the selected memory element . Thus the electric current received while the memory element is half selected primarily includes what will be referred to as a noise current .

The magnitude of the noise current is dependent upon the bias voltage applied to the unselected rows . Specifically the magnitude of the noise current is dependent on the difference between the bias voltage applied to the unselected row lines and the read voltage formed on the selected column line . Additionally the magnitude of the noise current is dependent on the equivalent resistance existing between the unselected row lines and the selected column line . The bias voltages are selected so that the noise current is approximately equal to or less than the expected sense current . Reasons for this will be discussed in more detail below.

The noise current from the selected column line while the target memory element is half selected may be sensed or measured by a sense element . The noise current sensed by the sense element may be stored in a storage element . An example of a sense element circuit will be discussed below in the text associated with . Likewise an example of a storage element circuit will be discussed below in the text associated with .

After the noise current received from the selected column line while the target memory element is half selected has been stored in the storage element the target memory element may be fully selected. The target memory element becomes fully selected by applying a sense voltage to the row line connected to the target memory element . Various switching circuitry may be used to apply or remove the sense voltage to a particular row line. By applying a sense voltage to the selected row line connected to the target memory element a memory element current will flow through the target memory element through the select switch and to the sense element . At this point the sense current is a combination of the memory element current and the noise current which remains the same as when the target memory element was only half selected.

As mentioned above it is desirable to read the electric current flowing through the selected memory element that is a result of the sense voltage only. Because the sense current flowing from the selected column line includes both the noise current and the memory element current a summing node may be used to remove the noise current stored in the storage element from the sense current received from the selected column line when the memory element is fully selected. The resulting output current will thus be equivalent to the memory element current only and not from various other sources.

Based on the value of the sense voltage and the final output the resistive state of the selected memory element may be determined. For example if the final output current is a relatively low electric value it may be determined that the selected memory element is in a high resistive state. Conversely if the final output current is a relatively high electric current value then it may be determined that the selected memory element is in a low resistive state.

The summing node produces a more accurate output when the both of its inputs are relatively equal. Thus the noise current is manipulated to be roughly equal to the expected sense current flowing from the selected column line while the target memory element is fully selected. As a result the noise current stored in the storage element and the sense current from the sense element will be roughly equivalent. This produces a more accurate output current .

In some examples a control voltage may be applied to the positive input terminal of the amplifying element . The control voltage may be equivalent to the read voltage applied to the selected column connected to the target memory element e.g. . The negative input terminal of the amplifying element may be connected to the drain terminal of the select switch e.g. as part of a feedback loop coming from the output terminal of the amplifying element.

In the present configuration the output terminal of the amplifying element is connected to the gate terminal of the transistor . The sense current received from a selected line may pass through the transistor between the drain terminal and the source terminal . The direction of the sense current is a matter of convention and may be based on the design implementation of the crossbar memory structure. For example whether the bias voltages and sense voltages are positive or negative will affect the direction of the electric current flowing from a selected line.

A supply voltage may be applied to the drain terminal of the transistor . The measured electric current may be read between the supply voltage and the drain terminal . As mentioned above if the measured current is the noise current flowing from the selected column when the target memory element is only half selected then the measured current may be stored in a storage element. One type of storage element is a sample and hold circuit.

With the switch opened a portion of the sense current will travel through the resistor . The voltage stored in the gate to source capacitance of the transistor will cause the drain current of the transistor to be equal to the noise current. In accordance with Kirchhoff s Current Law the sense current will be equal to the drain current of the transistor plus the current flowing through the resistor.

Since the transistor drain current is limited to be equal to the noise current and the current that must flow through the resistor is the difference between the sense current and the noise current the current through the resistor will be equal to the memory element current . In this manner the resistor acts as a differential current sensor. The change in the voltage across the resistor will be a measure of the memory element current. Thus the current flowing through the resistor will be the sense current minus the noise current.

If the selected target memory element is in a low resistive state a relatively large current will flow through the resistor . Conversely if the target memory element is in a high resistive state then a relatively small amount of current will flow through the resistor . The amount of current flowing through the resistor at this point is thus indicative of the resistive state of the selected target memory element.

The sense element and storage element examples illustrated in and are merely one example of respective circuit configurations designed to carry out their described functions. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the relevant art many other circuit configurations may be designed to accomplish the same functions.

According to certain illustrative examples a voltage V may be applied to a non linear element. A first electric current illustrated by the upper horizontal dotted line is the electric current value passing through the non linear element with a voltage of V applied. If half the voltage V 2 is applied a second electric current illustrated by the lower horizontal dotted line will flow through the non linear element. The second current will be much smaller than half the first electric current flowing through the non linear element when V is applied. This non linear relationship allows bias voltages to be applied to unselected lines within the crossbar array without overly affecting the electric current sensed from a selected memory element.

For example if a sense voltage of V is applied to a selected line and a bias voltage of V 2 is applied to unselected lines the cumulative electric currents from several unselected lines may still be less than the electric current flowing through the selected memory element as a result of sense voltage V being applied.

In sum a system or method embodying principles described herein allows the state of memory elements within a crossbar memory structure to be accurately read without the need of isolation elements. Thus a memory structure having a higher density may be realized. Additionally the cost of designing implementing and manufacturing such a memory structure may be reduced.

The preceding description has been presented only to illustrate and describe examples and examples of the principles described. This description is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit these principles to any precise form disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teaching.

