---

title: Method and system for implementing a cloud-based social media marketing method and system
abstract: Disclosed is an approach for implementing a system, method, and computer program product for performing social marketing using a cloud-based system. The approach is capable of accessing data across multiple types of internet-based sources of social data and commentary and to perform analysis upon that data. A social marketing campaign can then be generated and implemented in an integrated manner using the system. This permits realtime reaction to trends, with rapid ability to react to opportunities in the marketplace.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09633399&OS=09633399&RS=09633399
owner: Oracle International Corporation
number: 09633399
owner_city: Redwood Shores
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130927
---
The present application claims the benefit of priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 707 628 filed Sep. 28 2012 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. The present application is also a continuation in part of a U.S. application Ser. No. 13 004 796 filed on Jan. 11 2011 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 427 000 filed on Dec. 23 2010 b U.S. application Ser. No. 14 021 820 filed on Sep. 9 2013 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 780 562 filed on Mar. 13 2013 U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 780 611 filed on Mar. 13 2013 U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 698 713 filed on Sep. 9 2012 and U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 698 715 filed on Sep. 9 2012 and c U.S. application Ser. No. 12 859 675 filed on Aug. 19 2010 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 235 277 filed on Aug. 19 2009 all of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

Given the widespread availability and usage of social networks by consumers many businesses have become interested in being able to effectively market their products through various social networking mediums.

It would be very useful to provide an effective mechanism to allow businesses and enterprise business applications to interact with and take action upon data that originate from online sources of social data and commentary. For example consider a CRM Customer Relationship Management application which is designed to facilitate the ability of a business to create develop and build relationships with its customers or potential customers. It would be very desirable to allow the business CRM application to stay informed of actionable social networking content for example to identify potential customers and possible sales leads.

As another example brand managers are often interested in monitoring commentary on the internet regarding their brands or competitors brands. Brand managers may read the commentary to gauge interest in their marketing materials receive feedback regarding their products or take further action regarding any inflammatory postings.

It would also be useful to provide effective approaches to be able to construct effective marketing campaigns based upon data from analysis of social media sources and to also utilize those same social media venues as part of the marketing campaign.

Embodiments of the present invention provide a system method and computer program product for implementing an integrated solution for real time social marketing. The approach allows a business entity to access and integrate with social media data where data is accessed from across multiple types of internet based sources of social data and commentary and to perform semantic analysis upon that data. The results of that analysis are used to take actions to construct and implement a social media marketing campaign. In some embodiments the integrated system may be cloud based and include both a social monitor analysis service as well as a social marketing CRM application.

Other additional objects features and advantages of the invention are described in the detailed description figures and claims.

The present disclosure is directed to an approach to implement an integrated solution for real time social marketing. The approach allows a business entity to access and integrate with social media data where data is accessed from across multiple types of internet based sources of social data and commentary and to perform semantic analysis upon that data. The results of that analysis are used to take actions to construct and implement a social media marketing campaign. In some embodiments the integrated system may be cloud based and include both a social monitor analysis service as well as a social marketing CRM application.

The system includes one or more servers having applications that implement social marketing activities. The server may provide these social marketing applications in a cloud based manner to users at user station .

This social marketing application at server receives data from one or more online social data sources. The social network data may be received from both external social networks and internal social networks . Examples of external public social networks include for example websites such as a social network or blog or web feed e.g. Facebook Twitter Blogger and RSS . The content may include one or more comments e.g. Facebook comment comment to a blog post reply to a previous comment or uploaded postings e.g. images and associated metadata text rich media URLs at one or more sources. The social data content may therefore comprise a variety of forms and or types.

Recently organizations are starting to realize the value of an internal social network as a tool to improve collaboration within the organization. The internal social networks can be configured to provide an effective mechanism to allow users of the system to interact and collaborate with each other. For example consider a CRM Customer Relationship Management application which is designed to facilitate the ability of a business to create develop and build relationships with its customers or potential customers with the obvious intent to obtain or increases the business sales to the customers. In this type of system it would be very desirable to allow the internal users of an organization to use the internal social network to stay informed and collaborate for related business activities and customers leads. An example internal social network is the Oracle Social Network product available from Oracle Corporation of Redwood Shores Calif.

The cloud based social marketing application at server provides a framework for performing social media analysis marketing and engagement. A social monitor analysis module performs analysis upon the social media data. For example semantic analysis classification and filtering can be performed upon the social data. Based upon this analysis actionable social data can be identified. An exemplary social monitor analysis tool that can provide the services of 144 is the Collective Intellect tool available from Oracle Corporation of Redwood Shores Calif.

The actionable social data is used by organizations to create a social marketing campaign . One or more tools within a marketing CRM application may be used to create the social marketing campaign . Example of such social marketing and CRM applications include for example services and components from the Vitrue Involver and Fusion products available from Oracle Corporation of Redwood Shores Calif.

It is noted that the tools within the server for implementing the social marketing campaign are implemented in an integrated manner For example commonly accessed data can be transparently utilized transmitted and or accessed between the different tools and services. Inter related actions can also be performed between the different services and components e.g. by identifying actionable data from a first service tool and then taking the appropriate action using a second service tool.

The marketing CRM data provided to the campaign and or generated by the campaign may be stored into a database in a computer readable storage device. The computer readable storage device comprises any combination of hardware and software that allows for ready access to the data that is located at the computer readable storage device. For example the computer readable storage device could be implemented as computer memory operatively managed by an operating system. The computer readable storage device could also be implemented as an electronic database system having storage on persistent and or non persistent storage.

The set of analysis results produced by the social marketing application at server can be accessed and visually reviewed by individuals and organizations within a company on user station . Data is provided to the user at user station through one or more dashboards for information relevant to the social data analysis and marketing campaign. A dashboard is a user interface mechanism that provides views of key metrics and indicators relevant to a particular objective or business process.

According to some embodiments of the invention the social marketing campaign will be presented to potential customers that use social media applications at any of a user station tablet device or mobile telephone computing device . Examples of such user stations include for example workstations personal computers laptop computers or remote computing terminals. Tablet device comprises any type of portable tablet device including for example tablet computers portable readers etc. Mobile telephone computing device comprises any mobile device that can suitably access an application on application server such as smartphones and programmable mobile handsets. It is noted that the invention is not limited in its application to just these types of devices. The embodiments of the invention are applicable to any computing device that works in conjunction with a social media application.

A social intelligence tool performs analysis upon the social media data . For example semantic analysis may be performed upon the received data. Latent semantic analysis LSA an advanced form of statistical language modeling is one possible approach that can be taken to perform semantic analysis upon the social data. This permits the system to understand the contextual and semantic significance of terms that appear within the social data. For example semantic analysis can be used to understand the difference between the term Galaxy used in an astronomy context and Galaxy as used to refer to the name of a professional soccer team.

Semantic filtering can also be performed to minimize miscategorizations of the social data. Much of the social data is likely to contain content which is of very little interest to a business organization. Semantic filtering is used to remove the irrelevant material from the social data to reduce the occurrence of false positives false negatives and inappropriate responses rejections within the actionable data. This permits the resulting data to be more relevant and accurate when provided to the enterprise applications by reducing the excess noise of irrelevant data.

The system performs semantic analysis and classification on the social media data. This permits the system to create and apply filters to identify themes and to cluster together like minded messages topics conversations and content.

A dashboard tool is used to display the analysis results to marketing employees and executives. As noted above a dashboard is a user interface mechanism that is often used to provide views of key metrics and indicators relevant to a particular objective or business process. Therefore dashboards typically use graphs charts and other visual objects to show summaries trends and comparisons of data. The dashboard can be configured to show analysis results of the internal social data that are needed to monitor the health and opportunities of the business including for example data that focus on high level measures of performance and forecasts. For analysis purposes the dashboards often include more in the way of context data comparisons and history for the internal social data. The dashboards may also be used to monitor events and activities that are changing more frequently. The dashboards also may also support drilling down into the underlying details of the high level data.

The analysis results are also used by the social media marketing tool to generate and implement a social marketing campaign . The social media marketing tool provides a platform that permits organizations to enhance and implement social marketing efforts by scaling across multiple social networks target messages from global to local create unique and consistent brand experiences and publish content that engages fans and drives leads. This permits real time responsiveness to help drive effective marketing efforts. A unified social experience can therefore be provided for the social marketing campaign across customer interactions on multiple social media platforms and outlets.

Exemplary social media marketing tools include for example the Involver Conversation and Vitrue Publisher tools available from Oracle Corporation. The Vitrue Publisher tool provides functionality that enables companies to manage moderate and engage in two way conversations with fans and followers from one centralized location. This tool addresses the challenges of scheduling content for multiple social networks streams or pages and seamlessly directs social fan questions to appropriate team members. The Involver Conversation tool access information about customer messages and sentiments and provides an infrastructure for communicating and publishing in response to the customer messages. Actions are taken based upon the identified actionable messages including for example sending emails generating sales lead data and creating CRM entries in a CRM application.

An engagement module can be employed to implement the social marketing campaign. The engagement module performs actions such as for example publishing to social media sites and sending emails.

A social storefront tool can be used to create a social media storefront. An exemplary social storefront tool is the Vitrue Shop tool available from Oracle Corporation.

These actions may involve using a monitoring tool to obtain and monitor content from the social media sites e.g. using a social media marketing and engagement tool as described in more detail below. The system uses semantic analysis and or sentiment analysis to identify themes within the social media content and to then identify whether any interesting marketing insights can be obtained from the data. For example it would be of great interest to a marketer to know about trends that develop with respect to products and or product categories of pertinence to that marketer s company.

If such trends are identified then at a marketing campaign is created that specifically targets the identified trend. The marketing campaign can be created using any suitable tool. For example a CRM tool can be used to create the campaign. For campaigns that are designed to be implemented using social media the campaign can also be created using a social relationship management tool and or a marketing automation tool in addition to or instead of the CRM tool. The marketing campaign can be implemented as a multi channel campaign e.g. one that addresses different social media sites and or email based campaigns.

The multi channel campaign may also involve creations of a marketing presence at one or more storefronts whether virtual or brick mortar storefronts. The online storefront can be created for example by creating a shopping page on a social media site .

Thereafter at the marketing campaign goes live. At further monitoring and tracking are performed to monitor and analyze the status progress and results of the marketing campaign. Analysis can also be performed for example to determine engagement levels and to measure the success of other campaign. Similar actions can thereafter be taken for various other marketing regions.

In one example application of the technique brand managers may desire to monitor commentary or conversations on the internet that relate to the brands they manage. Certain sources may contain information or posted commentary that are relevant to brands that a brand manager manages. Some examples include managing the brand or reputation of a recording artist or band a women s clothing line or a small business e.g. a bakery restaurant etc. . Receiving and presenting all desired content to be monitored at a central interface permits brand managers to efficiently consume and manage the plethora of information across multiple sources. If a brand manager desires he may take an action with respect to a monitored content inline at the central interface that is without having to navigate away from the interface in order to take or otherwise perform a desired action. In some embodiments the result of the action taken with respect to a monitored content may be displayed at the source without the brand managers needing to directly interact with or go to a source e.g. log into an account associated with the platform of the source and reply to a posted comment at the webpage of the source . Examples of actions include assigning a sentiment replying to or deleting the content. In some embodiments more than one brand manager manages the same brand s each may access the central interface as a user and access the same information. Multiple users may utilize the central interface to share the responsibilities regarding the monitoring and management of posted content in an organized and collaborative fashion.

In some embodiments monitoring server communicates with brand manager via network to present the content posted at selected sources. For example the content presented may be feedback or a response by commentator in response to or in reaction to content posted by brand manager e.g. a brand manager posts an announcement about a sale or promotion and commentator expresses excitement about the sale or promotion . In another example commentator posts content out of the blue that is not necessarily directly tied to or associated with a specific piece of content by brand manager such as a comment I love Tummy Rub dog toys . In various embodiments network includes various high speed data networks and or telecommunications networks. Although this figure shows brand manager as communicating via a computer a variety of devices may be used including but not limited to an Internet browser application or a specialized application running on a smart phone or other device. Monitoring server may be linked to various sources at various platforms not shown . Links between monitoring server and various sources may be established via but not limited to the following examples a secure authentication service or an exchange of identification information and passwords.

In another example brand manager manages a brand associated with a line of tennis shoes. In that example the brand manager may have accounts e.g. the brand manager may be the administrator of the accounts at platforms that are dedicated to distributing information regarding the brand s line of tennis shoes. The brand manager may also know about certain webpages that contain relevant information to the brand s line of tennis shoes. For example other relevant webpages include publicly viewable webpages at one or more platforms competitors webpages blogs with posts that relate to tennis shoes and webpages that rate new tennis shoes. The brand manager would input information e.g. identification and or authentication information regarding the sources he wishes to monitor at the user interface. The user interface would then obtain content posted at the selected sources and present the content to the brand manager. In some cases the brand manager may select an action with respect to the presented content at the user interface if he feels that action is warranted. Among the actions that the brand manager may take include replying to a piece of content deleting a piece of content assigning a sentiment to the piece of content assigning the posted content to another user e.g. a colleague of the brand manager and republishing the posted content. This way the brand manager may monitor relevant commentary regarding the brands he manages across various sources associated with different platforms at one location or central single user interface. The brand manager may also interact with such commentary keep track of trends related to the commentary and also coordinate monitoring activities with his colleagues.

Monitoring server obtains content from various sources. In some embodiments sources are publicly or anonymously viewable websites or webpages e.g. websites or webpages that do not require authentication or identification for access . In some embodiments sources require authentication before content may be accessed from them. Monitoring server obtains the content from a source through one or more of the following pulling the content off the server associated with the source communicating with the application programming interface API associated with the platform that corresponds to the source querying the server associated with the source for updated content or any other appropriate technique. In some embodiments monitoring server obtains content from the sources periodically. In some embodiments monitoring server obtains content from the sources whenever it detects a change at the sources e.g. monitoring server can periodically check the sources for any changes such as newly posted content or updates made to existing content . In some embodiments monitoring server obtains content from the sources at a request by a user.

Monitoring server provides content from these various sources and or platforms to brand manager via a user interface. In some embodiments the user interface may be accessed through one or more accounts for example where each account is associated with a different person or employee who is involved in the monitoring and or managing of comments or posts. In one example the content relates to a band and people associated with the band e.g. the manager or agent of the band the band s record company e.g. the band s contact or manager at the record company or other music industry professionals e.g. publicists each have an account and may access the content from the various sources using the user interface by logging in using their respective accounts and accessing the user interface. In some embodiments each account at the user interface may be accessed by one or more users e.g. there may be more than one publicist working on the account and all publicists use the same publicists account .

Monitoring server may receive an action to be taken with respect to one or more posted content. In some embodiments monitoring server may perform the specified action and present a result of the action. In various embodiments the action is selected and inputted into the user interface by a user. In some embodiments the received action entails receiving text to be published at the source e.g. a response to a posted content such as Thanks We re glad you love our products in response to the comment I love Tummy Rub dog toys and publishing the received text at the source. The received text may appear at the user interface and may be grouped with the display of the original post so that brand manager knows that the action has been taken and the content on which the action was performed. In some embodiments a posted content may be deleted and such a deletion is reflected at the source e.g. commentator posted a negative and or inappropriate comment such as Tummy Rub dog toys suck. on the Facebook account of Tummy Rub dog toys deletion via the user interface is performed at the user interface as well as on the Facebook account of Tummy Rub dog toys . In some embodiments a reply to or a deletion of a posted content is only possible at the user interface if the user is also an administrator of the source at which the action is to be performed e.g. continuing the example above the person doing the deletion has the username and password of the Tummy Rub Facebook account and thus has ability or authorization to delete content on the Tummy Rub Facebook account . In some embodiments monitoring server performs a reply or deletion by communicating with the API of the platform with which the source is associated.

Besides replying to or deleting posted content monitoring server may receive instructions to perform other actions and perform such actions on the selected content. Other actions include assigning or selecting a sentiment for a piece of posted content assigning a posted content to a user republishing the posted content filtering the obtained posted content based on selected keywords among others. More information regarding the actions is disclosed below.

Monitoring server may also store historical information regarding posted content. In some embodiments historical information may include the time when each piece of content was posted with which source and platform the content is associated whether an action with respect to the content has been performed to which user the posted content was assigned among other information. In some embodiments monitoring server may store historical information and or group the stored information based on for example the related platform assigned user date time and action that is associated with the content.

Brand manager communicates with monitoring server over network to select sources to monitor view the content posted at the sources and perform actions with respect to the posted content. Brand manager may communicate with the monitoring server via a computing device or mobile device e.g. smart phone or tablet . In some embodiments monitoring server adjusts the display of content depending on the type of device that brand manager uses. For example different viewing devices e.g. devices from which the central interface may be accessed may entail different sizes of displays. So monitoring server will adjust the display content to the appropriate format of whichever display size is used on the viewing device e.g. monitoring server may detect the type of device used through its access of the central interface . In some embodiments brand manager may provide information to monitoring server via a user interface. In some embodiments a brand manager or other user accesses an account on such a user interface by accessing a website e.g. www.involver.com and entering security or verification information e.g. a user name password stored token etc. . In some embodiments other users besides brand manager may access and utilize the user interface. In some embodiments brand manager may select at least one source to monitor through the user interface not shown . Brand manager consumes the posted content obtained from the selected source s via a presentation of the obtained content by the user interface. In some embodiments brand manager may select an action with respect to a presented content at the user interface.

In step the obtained content from the at least one source is presented at a central user interface e.g. as described in co pending U.S. application Ser. No. 13 004 796 filed on Jan. 11 2011 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. In some embodiments the obtained content may be displayed in chronological or reverse chronological order at the user interface. In some embodiments the display at the user interface may be refreshed periodically or in response to the obtainment of newly posted content at the sources. In some embodiments the obtained content is displayed at the user interface in accordance with the display configurations or requirements or selected sorting of the user interface e.g. sort from oldest to newest sort from newest to oldest sort based on platform sort based on prioritization display based on a whether an action has been assigned or not display content associated with selected type s of actions assigned to the content show only content assigned to specified user s display only unfinished actions a selected sorting based on creation time of a content an algorithmically computed importance of the content a user to whom the content is assigned a algorithmically computed importance of a creator of the content whether media is attached or a sentiment assigned to the content etc. . In some embodiments in the event that identifying information for a commentator who posted some content is available such information is also displayed with the posted content at the user interface.

In step a control associated with an action to be executed with respect to the presented content is provided. In some embodiments the control may be an interactive area of the user interface e.g. a clickable button a pull down menu radio buttons input box a selectable icon etc. that a user may select or click or choose in some manner specifying and action to be assigned or taken with that content and any related parameters controls or specifications e.g. if the action is to assign the content to someone the parameter may be the assignee . In the event that a provided control is selected e.g. by clicking on a button or selecting from a pull down menu an indication of a selected control is received at the user interface presented by the monitoring server. In various embodiments in response to receiving the indication the monitoring server performs at least a portion of the action associated with the selected control.

A control is associated with an action and the action is to be executed for a presented content from at least once source. As mentioned above some actions e.g. replying to or deleting to be executed with respect to a presented content may entail a corresponding update at the sources. Some actions e.g. assigning a content to another user of the user interface entail sending a notification to another user. Some actions e.g. republishing content entail publishing content at a selected outlet in which publication privileges are available. Some actions e.g. assigning or selecting sentiment for a piece of content entail selecting appropriate metadata e.g. in the case of a binary sentiment whether the sentiment is positive or negative and storing that metadata at the user interface with the presented content.

Returning to the former example of the brand manager who wishes to monitor posted content at various sources the brand manager may use an assignment feature to assign tasks to other colleagues. For example the brand manager may come across content from a source that is presented at the user interface and discover that the content contains language that may potentially entail undesirable legal liability for the brand manager and the brands he manages. Thus the brand manager can assign the relevant content to another user e.g. an in house attorney at the company of the brand manager with more legal knowledge to review and possibly take action with respect to the content e.g. delete the posted content . Also the brand manager may include notes addressing his concerns with the assignment to inform the assigned user reasons for this assignments points of interest etc. In another example the comment is related to a bug in software and the comment is assigned to a software developer or software tester. As another example of the use of the assignment feature is to spread the responsibility of monitoring a potentially large amount of incoming content among several members of a team. For example for positive comments that simply require a thank you or acknowledgement the comment may be assigned to a pool of interns. In some cases they all use the same account e.g. an intern account or have individual accounts e.g. in their own name .

Social Media Marketing and Engagement illustrate a method and mechanism to implement an approach for performing social media marketing and engagement. shows an architecture for implementing a social media marketing and engagement framework according to some embodiments of the invention. Data from one or more social network systems are received into the system. The social data may be either public social network sources or private social network sources . Public social network data messages include for example publically available content from public blog sites twitter messages RSS data and social media sites such as Facebook. Private social network data messages include for example content from internal company social networking sites.

In some embodiments the data that is received for processing includes non social data. Such data includes for example enterprise data from the non public sources such as email chats transcribed phone conversations transcribed videos.

Semantic analysis is performed upon the received data. For example latent semantic analysis LSA an advanced form of statistical language modeling can be used to perform semantic analysis upon the social data. This permits the system to understand the contextual and semantic significance of terms that appear within the social data. This type of analysis can be used for example to understand the difference between the term Galaxy used for an astronomy contexts and Galaxy the name of a professional soccer team.

Semantic filtering is a mechanism that is provided to minimize miscategorizations of the social data. Much of the social data is likely to contain content which is of very little interest to a business organization. Semantic filtering is used to remove the irrelevant material from the social data to reduce the occurrence of false positives false negatives and inappropriate responses rejections within the actionable data. This permits the resulting data to be more relevant and accurate when provided to the enterprise applications.

In some embodiments all social data content is subject to semantic filtering to reduce the excess noise of irrelevant data. In an alternate embodiment only public social network content undergoes semantic filtering such that the private social network content is not subject to the semantic filtering. This embodiment is based on the assumption that the public social network content is more likely to contain data of little interest to the enterprise. In yet another embodiment both the public and private social network data are subject to semantic filtering but the filtering is handled differently so that greater levels intensity of filtering is imposed on the public data as opposed to the private data.

The system performs semantic analysis and classification to the social media data. This permits the system to create and apply filters to identify themes and to cluster together like minded messages topics conversations and content. There are numerous ways that can be taken to semantically categorize the social network content. The categorizations and classifications can be performed with an eye towards identifying for example a customer insights preferences and intentions b demographic and social platform information c industry and category trends and emerging themes and or d customer consumer viewpoints e.g. on price and product considerations intent to switch services and customer satisfaction. Other categorizations and or classifications for performing auto categorizations include for example items such as intent to switch customer satisfaction brand influencer passive job candidate active job candidate and brand detractor .

Based upon the semantic analysis and classification tags are identified and associated with the social network content. The tags correspond to areas of analytical importance with respect to the organizations that will be consuming the results of the system. For example a business may seek to use the system to analyze social network data to identify 1 sales leads 2 customer relations issues and dissatisfied customers 3 potential job candidates and 4 HR topics. If these are the business goals then at least some of the tags associated with the classified social media content will in some embodiments correspond to identification of the content that pertain to these categories.

Social profile data may also be accessed and associated with the originator of specific items of social network content. This profile data includes for example information about the social importance of that person e.g. using Klout data and or follower count. The profile data may also include demographic information about the person including information about the person s income age profession and geographic location. This profile data is useful for many purposes. For example messages created by a person having a very high Klout score or who has many followers may need to be placed onto a higher priority queue for processing. As another example the demographic information can be used to direct a sales lead to the appropriate sales department e.g. a sales lead associated with a person in California may be directed to a west coast sales representative while a sales lead from New York may be directed to an east coast sales representative.

When analyzing internal social data employee profile data may also be accessed as part of the analysis for the internal social network content. When the person is an employee there is additional profile information that may exist for the individual e.g. organization information who is the manager employee job function job level peer group location etc. . As noted above external influence may be analyzed e.g. using a Klout score. Similarly internal influence can similarly be analyzed tracked and or leveraged using various data points e.g. based at least in part on job role responsibility title number of employees managed by person and or number of individuals in that person s organizational hierarchy.

The resulting set of data is the set of actionable social messages that is stored in an actionable social message store . shows a table of some example types of information that may be part of the actionable social message. Column identifies a title for the message e.g. based upon the subject or topic parameter associated with a given social media message. Column identifies an internet web link address for the message. Column identifies the specific source of the message. Column identifies the type of the message source. Column provides the date that s associated with the message. Column provides some or all of the text associated with the message. Column provides messaged quality data for the message e.g. data regarding the readability subjectivity and or tonality of the message. Column identifies the name contact that is associated with the message. Column identifies any additional relevant social profile data that may be associated with the message and or message originator.

Column identifies the one or more tags that may be assigned to the message. As described above semantic analysis and classification may be performed on the message to identify any tag s that should be identified and associated with the social network content. For example row corresponds to social message content that appears quite relevant to the customer service of the organization being commented upon e.g. commenting upon bad customer service from foo.com as described in Column . Therefore this message will be associated with the appropriate tag e.g. Customer Service that corresponds to this area of importance to the organization that will be consuming the results of the system e.g. the organization being commented upon in the message as having bad customer service .

As another example row corresponds to social message content that discusses the desire to purchase a consumer item e.g. a desire to purchase a television from the foo.com organization as described in Column . Therefore this message will be associated with the appropriate tag e.g. Sales Lead that corresponds to this area of importance to the organization e.g. foo.com that will be consuming the results of the actionable message.

Returning back to the actionable social messages are placed into an actionable social message store . In some embodiments this actionable social message store provides canonical storage for social content that business vertical systems can access.

A user interface is provided to permit users to view and act upon the data within the actionable social message store. For example a Community Manager UX user experience can be provided as the user interface . Using the Community Manager UX a user can direct the flow of messages to appropriate personnel to take responsibility for performing pertinent actions with the messages in the actionable social message store. For example actionable social messages that are tagged as a Sales Lead can be directed to sale personnel to contact the message originator to make a sale. Similarly actionable social messages that are tagged as a Customer Relations can be directed to customer relations personnel to contact the customer e.g. to have retention department personnel convince a dissatisfied customer to avoid changing service providers. Co pending U.S. application Ser. No. 13 004 796 filed on Jan. 11 2011 discloses an illustrative example of a Community Manager that can be employed in some embodiments of the invention which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The messages within the actionable social message store can be processed using any suitable processing mechanism. In one embodiment manual processing is performed whereby a user reviews the actionable social messages and manually takes action to direct the message to the appropriate destination. In an alternate embodiment automated processing is performed using a rules and workflow engine. In this approach a set of rules is provided in a rulebase where the rules identify how the messages should be handled and directed within the organization. The rulebase can be constructed as a learning system where feedback and a neural network algorithm are used to improve the handling of messages based upon looking at the results from past handling of messages.

The system then dispatches and or creates the appropriate messages to be sent to destinations within the enterprise. For example tickets can be sent to a social customer service tool such as the RightNow cloud based customer service product available from Oracle Corporation. As another example the identity of possible employment candidates can be sent to an HR department HR application . In addition opportunities can be provided to a CRM system where a record is automatically created and or process in the system for the sales lead. Product data and comments can be provided to ecommerce tools products and groups e.g. to the ATG product available from Oracle Corporation. An analysis tool dashboard e.g. a business intelligence dashboard may be provided over the actionable social messages to provide visibility by company decision makers using the analyzed data.

The dispatched messages can also be routed to the marketers of an organization. The marketers then use that information to create a new marketing campaign. Information to be provided to the marketer includes for example data about sentiments and or trends within social media data with respect to brands and or products of interest to the marketer or the marketer s company.

The messages to these vertical applications are dispatched based at least in part upon the tags that are associated with the data in the actionable social message store. When the other system takes action upon receiving the messages then in some embodiments an update is provided in the actionable social message store with the update status of the message.

The system shown in therefore provides a framework for integrating any part of a corporate infrastructure to handle social media data. When any new social media source is identified then the inventive system can access and process that data like any of the other social data already being accessed transparent to the corporate infrastructure that will eventually consume the results of that analysis. In addition any new components applications to the corporate infrastructure can be easily integrated by configuring the rules within the Community Manager to address workflow paths to that new component application.

At semantic filtering is performed upon the social data. The filtering may be applied to some or all of the data. In some embodiments different levels of filtering may be applied to different types and or sources of data. For example different levels of filtering may be applied depending upon whether the social data is public social data or private social data.

At semantic analysis and classification is performed on the social media data. Based upon the results of the semantic analysis and classification tags are identified and are associated with the messages content at . Thereafter at the actionable social messages are stored into an actionable social message store.

At the data within the actionable social message store is retrieved for processing. The message tag is reviewed at . At identification is made of the appropriate action to take with regards to the message.

Different approaches can be taken to process the messages in the actionable social message store. In the approach of manual processing is performed such that a user reviews the actionable social messages and manually takes action to direct the message to the appropriate destination. In the approach of automated processing is performed using a rules and workflow engine where a set of rules is provided in a rulebase. The rules identify how the messages should be handled and directed within the organization.

Thereafter at the appropriate action is taken with respect to the message. For example tickets can be sent to a social customer service cloud product the identity of possible employment candidates can be sent to an HR department opportunities can be provided to a CRM system and product data comments can be provided to ecommerce products and groups.

Another action that can performed is to assign action items and due dates based upon this data to key leaders in the organization e.g. assign an action to marketing lead for internal communication strategy on key topics assign action to HR lead for improving a key EE program assign action to engineering to improve key metric assign action to sales to share top number of wins and losses with key leaders assigning an action to a recruiter .

Each social media system has particular standards rules and messaging policies which must be met to operate on that system. For example some systems may impose a character limit on message text while other systems may not allow multimedia messages. As used herein the term messages refers to postings advertisements or other content published on a social media system. To ensure message compliance with the social media system an embodiment of the social relationship manager customizes messages for each destination system according to predefined rules. If a destination system does not allow multimedia messages for example the manager may not allow a developer to attach media. Alternatively the manager may simply remove an embedded image or video from a multimedia message before publishing it on the social media system. In order to make formatting decisions the manager maintains a list of standards and rules pertaining to the social media systems and compares the message to these standards before publishing the messages. The standards may be updated periodically if required.

Alternatively for example if a certain social media system does not support multimedia messages the manager may create a separate page with the complete message and post a text message on the social media system with a link to the complete page. Any user may subsequently select the embedded URL to view the complete multimedia message. In this way embodiments of the manager allow marketers to build multimedia messages for social media platforms that do not support these messages.

The SRM may be connected to social media systems through the network . Moreover members of the social media systems such as users can access their respective system through the network . As referred to herein a member of a social media system is an end user of the system. Thus the messages and content created by clients and developers will be generally targeted to social media system members.

As shown in each social media system includes an application programming interface API that enables embodiments of the present SRM system to interact seamlessly with the social media system. As is understood in the art an API is an interface that enables the software systems of the social media systems to interact with the software systems of the SRM system. In this way developers of clients can interact with the SRM system to create advertising content messages etc. schedule message delivery amongst many social media systems and perform other functions without ever directly accessing a social media system. This enables more efficient and centralized management of a plurality of messages across many social media systems. This also enables various contributors with different access levels to coordinate and contribute content to a marketing program based on predetermined settings and rules not necessarily available directly through the social media systems conventional interface.

Developers access the social media systems and publish messages posts relevant to marketing programs on the social media systems. A message may typically include content such as text images video and the like. Users may reply to the messages post comments send messages back to the developer share messages with other users etc. The overall purpose of the posts and corresponding user interaction is to create user interest in the marketer s goods or services similar to traditional advertising. Embodiments of the present invention however obviate the need to access marketing programs individually to publish messages. Again a client is able to manage many different marketing programs messages associated with those programs etc. across many different social media systems or different pages handles within those systems all from one convenient user portal. Developers gain access to the SRM through which they can post multiple messages to multiple programs or multiple social media systems at scheduled times or simultaneously. This feature will be illustrated with an example in the following sections.

Developers C for Acme Coffee a fictitious example company create one or more marketing programs with one or more corresponding social media pages on the social media systems . One social media system such as system A might carry Acme Coffee s corporate marketing program and two regional marketing programs. Similarly another corporate marketing program may be active on social media system B. Acme Coffee may want to publish a multimedia message relating to its marketing programs on its corresponding social media system accounts. To do so the developers C login to the SRM and follow an interactive user interface to create a multimedia message such as message A. The SRM prompts the developers to either schedule message delivery or publish immediately. The developers may decide to immediately publish on system A and schedule delivery to the marketing program on system B after two hours or two days or three months etc. . Aspects of the scheduling component of the present system are discussed in greater detail below.

The SRM before delivery formats the message A according to the destination social media system. For example the example system shown in is utilized to create two formatted message copies one message B compliant with system A and another message C compliant with system B. Subsequently the SRM saves the formatted messages and delivers message B associated with its respective marketing program s on the system A immediately and message C to the system B after the stipulated time. The SRM may notify developers whenever the message is published or at some time prior to publishing. Moreover whenever users access the social media system they may be informed of Acme Coffee s publication and can respond to the message view special offers or coupons access Acme Coffee s separate corporate web site via a URL view related multimedia content etc. The SRM tracks these responses for analysis.

The user interface accepts input commands from developers and notifies the developers of system functions related to the input commands back to the developers . The interface accepts instructions from developers and forwards the instructions to the input module that further utilizes this information. The user instructions may include prompts to login to the system or other system management instructions as desired.

The scheduler allows developers to schedule message posts or distribute marketing content with short term or long term marketing programs. By way of example the scheduler may allow developers to create multiple messages on a single day and schedule message delivery at precise times in the future. In this way developers can plan strategies and schedule messages for an entire week month or year etc. in advance. The scheduler operates in conjunction with the publisher . The developers schedule message delivery and the scheduler instructs the publisher to publish the message content to the destination marketing programs at the scheduled time.

The scheduler granularity may be configured as desired. For instance in some cases the scheduler may allow developers to select the delivery date in other cases the scheduler may allow developers to select both date and time. Further time selection granularity may also vary. For example the scheduler may allow time selection from one hour intervals half hour intervals 15 minute intervals or some other predetermined arbitrary time interval.

Additionally the scheduler may repeatedly publish the same message over time. Acme coffee for instance may distribute free coffee coupons on the first day of every month. Instead of creating a new coupon every month a standard coupon may be created once and scheduled for delivery on the first of every month. Alternatively Acme Coffee may decide to give away 100 free coffees. In this case a free coffee coupon may be published every day or every week until 100 users i.e. members respond to the coupon.

The formatter ensures that messages adhere to the rules and policies of the destination social media system regarding font size text type maximum number of characters allowed whether multimedia is allowed and other similar details. Rather than requiring developers to remember such rules the formatter may allow developers to create a desired message and later check the message for compatibility with the destination media systems. The formatter may subsequently prompt the developer to modify the text according to the rules automatically modify the text to comply with the rules or it may automatically insure corrections as determined by the system.

Alternatively the formatter may simply not allow developers to create messages that do not comply with destination system rules. If the character length of certain media system is set to 250 characters for instance the formatter may prevent the developer from entering text beyond 250 characters. Similarly if a certain media system does not allow multimedia messages instead of permitting the developer to attach media and subsequently informing the developer of the media rules the formatter may not permit the developer to attach media in the first place by either hiding or deactivating that option. In one embodiment if one general message is created for distribution to many different social media systems each with varying format requirements then the SRM system may format the message according to each systems requirements and then prompt the contributor to change or modify the message for each social media system in which the message may be noncompliant.

In addition to rules and requirements mandated by each different social media system developers or clients may configure rules and thresholds for the different social media systems with which all of the associated developers must comply. The formatter may subsequently assess the messages according to the rules and raise flags prompt the developer to modify the message automatically modify the message or restrict the developers from creating a message that would violate the configured rules.

Further the formatter may convert any URL that is embedded into a message into a shorter URL. URLs may be shortened for various reasons. For example for social media systems that impose character limits adding very long URL links could potentially exhaust valuable message characters. Those skilled in the art will understand that users are more likely to click through shorter links than longer ones. For these and other reasons the social relationship manager shortens URLs to a particular format which redirects the user to the actual URL using a Meta Refresh technology. One advantage of using Meta Refresh to redirect the user to the desired URL is that the user first lands on the link created by the social relationship manager before being redirected to the actual URL. This initial landing allows the social relationship manager to track the number of click throughs to a site even though the destination URL is not associated with the social relationship manager. Through this tracking the social relationship manager can gain valuable insights about user behavior message success and so on.

According to one embodiment of the present system the formatter saves the original URL and the shortened URL in a lookup table in the database . When a user clicks on the shortened link the user lands on the short link and after either a short interval or no interval the user is redirected to the actual URL.

The publisher receives instructions from the scheduler or directly from the formatter to publish the message associated with its selected destination marketing programs on the corresponding social media systems. As will be understood and appreciated a message need not necessarily be associated with an overarching marketing program messages may be separately contained for smaller one off type advertisements. For scheduled messages message details are stored in the database . The publisher retrieves the message along with message details such as an associated marketing program destination social media system s and scheduled delivery time from the database before publishing the message. Moreover if for any reason the publisher is unable to publish the message to a particular program the publisher may generate and circulate an error report to a client and or its developers. Further the publisher may be configured to retry publication for a predefined number of times at predefined intervals. The publisher may also be configured to deliver publication notifications to the developer s or client s email address cell phone or some other delivery mechanism either before or after publication of the message. It will be understood that other notification techniques are contemplated and within the scope of the present disclosure.

The controller is utilized to set up collaboration accounts permitting multiple developers such as entire marketing team to collaborate share and work together on marketing strategies campaigns or even individual messages. For example in one embodiment a lead developer associated with a client will control the overall operations of that client s marketing programs and will correspondingly control access rights and other functions relating to the client s SRM system account. In this circumstance the lead developer acts as the client e.g. the company to make decisions regarding the client s marketing efforts on various social media systems. The lead developer with an existing account on the social manager may invite multiple developers to join the team. Upon approval and acceptance of the invitation new developers may fully participate in development activities. The inviting developer may set access rights for the invited developers . For instance the controller may allow developers to only create create and edit or create edit and publish depending on their access rights.

Using the controller team members may set reminders to complete tasks create marketing calendars set alerts edit each other s work work together on certain messages or configure notifications for message publication.

Because messages are published on social media platforms that are accessible by the general public i.e. members of those systems developers cannot always control the content of responses to a message or ancillary comments posts on the client s social media sites. Thus it may be important to screen user responses to filter out undesirable language or content. To accomplish that result the managing module includes a moderator which screens responses to published message and filters content. For example the moderator may filter abusive words competitor names racist language sexist terms links images videos audio and any other content deemed undesirable. The moderator performs this function by comparing each response with a database of prohibited words specially identified content items etc. which are updated at regular intervals. The parsing techniques are known to the art and may be used if desired. If the moderator identifies any message with a prohibited word the moderator may flag the message and notify the developer for action. Alternatively the moderator may automatically remove the message from the marketing program and send a notification to the developer . The developer may consequently decide whether the message should be permanently deleted or reinstated. The filtered content may include URLs on a no show list where users placed on a banned list of persons identified as posting undesirable content.

In addition to harmful content the moderator may also scan messages for good content such as praise of client products interest in specific products or service appreciation. These messages may also be flagged. Developers may utilize this information to distribute incentives or loyalty coupons to such users . Moreover these messages may also be utilized to improve product lines etc.

The importer extracts information from member user responses to the messages associated with marketing programs on the social media systems to perform various analytic functions generate metrics and provide reports. In one embodiment the importer monitors the marketing pages and extracts any responses to a published message. In one embodiment the overall goal of the member responses and corresponding analytics is to determine the relative success of various marketing programs and messages and identify helpful information regarding marketing of the client s products. The importer may also maintain a tracker for counting useful numbers such as the number of message replies plays and the like. This information can serve as inputs to various analytical programs known to those in the art. Further the actual messages may also be extracted and stored in the database for analysis. Users may present recommendations suggestions or interests and that input will be useful for generating future marketing strategies. Reports such as interactive charts and graphs can be generated on a planned or ad hoc basis.

Moreover the importer extracts performance information from the marketing programs as a whole or overall such as the number or fans or followers as well as new requests and program activity. Based on this information developers may set alerts for event notification such as a sudden change in the fan base.

The database stores information about clients their marketing programs and the associated information such as published and unpublished messages and the program metadata such as the identity of developers and the like. The database also stores message detail information contributor information marketing program metrics and other similar types of information. The database may be refreshed in real time by the other modules and stale data may be purged as desired.

The schema includes a master client table which catalogues the active clients . This table typically includes unique client IDs and other useful client details. It will be appreciated that other fields may also be contemplated within the scope of the present disclosure.

The client table may be associated with one or more marketing program tables such as marketing program table . The database may maintain separate marketing program tables for the clients or it may store marketing program details in one large table. Here the schema illustrates a larger table caching details of active marketing programs . Some exemplary data fields in this table include unique program IDs program name associated social media system date of activation date last updated number of active followers fan or members program description etc. This table in turn may be associated with a number of message tables . The database may maintain separate message tables for each marketing program or may store messages pertaining to a client in one single table. This table stores information relating to individual messages such as unique message IDs message titles message description message type creation date and time publication date and time embedded URL author etc. Other data fields may also be contemplated such as count of responses likes comments shares and plays flags response messages or number of revisions.

In addition to these tables the database may include other tables and data fields that the managing module may utilize in certain embodiments. The database for instance may include a table such as format table that stores information about different formatting standard rules and policies adopted by the active social media system . Exemplary fields of this table may be social media system ID social media system name required format best practices etc. The database may incorporate another table that maintains information about the active developers for the marketing programs . Typical fields in this table table may be user ID first name last name username password email address phone numbers social media profiles access permissions and other such developer related fields. Further the database may include a table that stores analytics and information relating to social media system member interaction with messages and marketing programs such as number of responses to a message number of likes shares click throughs to linked pages etc. As will be understood and appreciated some responses to messages will include social media specific responses such as the like or share option offered by Facebook. A few exemplary fields are illustrated in table in .

It will be understood that the database may maintain numerous other tables not illustrated here. For example a table that stores alerts reminders and triggers for a certain marketing program or client may be present. Similarly the database may maintain a table for shortened URLs and their corresponding actual longer URLs. As will be understood and appreciated the specific tables and corresponding data items shown in are presented for illustrative purposes only and other types of data as will occur to one of ordinary skill in the art may be utilized according to various embodiments of the present system.

The database may be updated in real time or on an intermittent basis. As will be further understood the specific database shown and described is intended to be illustrative only and actual embodiments of the SRM may include various database structures schemas etc.

The marketing programs may already exist or the client may create these programs as required. According to one embodiment creation of a marketing program simply represents the designation of basic information about a marketing campaign such as a name duration etc. Once the required marketing programs are created upon authorization the developer adds or activates the marketing programs on the SRM . Developers may access their marketing programs to authorize access rights for the given program. Authorization and addition of the marketing programs onto the SRM allows the SRM to publish messages in connection with the program monitor the program and extract information about the program as required. As will be understood and appreciated according to one embodiment of the present system step in is optional and an overarching marketing program need not be created for all message content to be delivered to various social media systems. For example a marketer client developer may wish to simply post a singular message not associated with an overall marketing program to one or more social media systems. In this case the message is simply created individually and is not associated with a marketing program.

Once the desired marketing programs are added a homepage greets the developer . From here the developer may view multiple items such as published or unpublished messages flagged responses message calendars reminders tasks due active marketing programs or lists of associated developers. In addition the developer may perform actions such as create a message change access rights preview messages modify unpublished messages create graphs and other such management specific actions. As will be understood and appreciated the homepage acts as a starting point for managing messages and marketing programs for a client s social media system advertising.

At step the user i.e. developer creates a message for use in connection with one or more destination marketing programs to be eventually displayed on one or more social media system portals to social media system members. To create the message the developer first logs in to the user interface and instructs the user interface to display a message creation interface or a message modification interface. The message creation interface may include drop down menus service buttons or may require the developer to type in a query or response. The developer may enter text embed a URL or add media such as images video audio coupons or forms. Further the developer may select destination marketing programs from a list of active destination programs. In this way a developer can select a message to be delivered in connection with a marketing program that spans many different social media outlets all from a singular location. The interface may also allow developers to alter modify or enter new text depending on the destination social media system . If for example one social media system is more informal that the others developers may alter the message content to create an informal message. Or for example if a given social media system has a character limit on the number of text characters that can be displayed in connection with any one message the message creation interface may display a char left indicator showing how many characters the message has left until it reaches its limit.

At step the user schedules message delivery. The developer may schedule delivery at a predetermined time or publish immediately. Moreover the scheduler may permit scheduling different delivery times for the destination marketing programs or the destination social media systems . Alternatively the scheduler may permit developers to configure one delivery time to publish the message on the social media systems. The scheduler may also schedule repeated delivery of a message if desired.

The method proceeds to step where the formatter customizes the message format according to predefined rules corresponding to the destination social media system . As described previously social media system messages may vary based on required standards such as rules policies and formats. For example such rules or policies include character limits on messages content requirements prohibitions on certain types of multimedia content formatting issues etc. In addition to these standards different social media systems may possess unique characteristics for instance users of some systems may be accustomed to communicate through short witty one liners e.g. Twitter while users of other systems may be comfortable with longer and fuller messages e.g. Facebook and others may be familiar with formal or professional messages e.g. LinkedIn . In order to publish the most effective messages in addition to the required standards developers may also be aware of these system specific nuances and characteristics. The formatter aids developers to publish the most appropriate message for a particular destination social media system by prompting developers to modify messages or by automatically editing messages according to configured rules. The formatter may for instance prompt the developer to change the message tone for a particular destination system . Alternatively the formatter may remove attached media from a message if the destination system does not allow multimedia messages. Functionality of the formatter will be described in detail with reference to .

At step the customized message is published on the selected destination social media systems in connection with the corresponding marketing programs at the scheduled time. The publisher may utilize one or more publication techniques such as interfacing with each social media systems API to publish the message according to the social media system s protocols and requirements. Moreover it will be understood that other message publication methods known in the art are not beyond the scope of the present disclosure.

Finally at step the importer may monitor the social media systems for responses to the published messages. The responses may be extracted and stored in the database for analysis. illustrates these monitoring tracking and analyzing functions of the SRM in detail.

The user interface may have different text boxes for different social media systems . Alternatively the user interface may include dropdown menus or checkboxes for selecting the social media systems for which the developer wishes to modify the message. Here when the social media system is selected the user interface may open additional text boxes for message alteration. In some embodiments the developer simply creates a single message for publication on various social media systems and the SRM system formats the message according to predetermined specifications for each social media system requirements i.e. the developer does not create separate messages for each social media system .

At step if the developer does not wish to modify the text message for other destination systems the method proceeds to step . Alternatively if the developer wishes to modify the message for a particular social media system the method proceeds to step where the user interface prompts the developer to insert modify the text message. Next the formatter checks the text format at step . If the format is not correct the formatter modifies the text at step else the method goes back to step where the developer may be prompted to include text for the next social media. This process continues until the developer has created or modified messages for all desired social media systems .

At step the developer determines whether to insert a URL. If yes the developer simply embeds the URL at step . If not the method proceeds to step where the developer decides to add media to the message. The user interface permits the developer to select media from multiple media options including images videos audio coupons forms banner advertisements etc. The user may also add custom media types to this list if required. Further a tab an icon a dropdown menu or any other such graphical tool may represent the media options. On selecting a particular media option the developer may be presented with available media files in that category. Moreover the developer may be allowed to add new files to the selected media by browsing through files present on the developer s system server external drive or other such system or by directly browsing through the Internet . Multiple files and multiple media type may be added to the message at step .

At step the user developer proceeds to select destination marketing programs . As mentioned previously marketing programs are high level categorical delineations used to categorize and group a number of advertising messages associated with each program. Users may select one or more active destination programs for publication. Next the method proceeds to step where the developer selects between publishing instantaneously or at a scheduled time. If the developer decides to schedule delivery step the user interface may allow the developer to set schedule times for the marketing programs individually. Alternatively the scheduler may allow the developer to select one scheduled time to deliver the message to all destination marketing programs . Once the message is scheduled the message is saved at step . If the developer wishes to schedule message delivery to individual destination programs steps are repeated for the selected marketing programs . If the developer on the other hand decides to publish instantly yes path from step the message is published step and saved step .

At step the formatter retrieves rules and policies associated with the selected destination social media system . These rules may include format standards required by a particular system and flexible best practices. These factors may be updated at regular periods with advances in technology social behaviors and platforms. Moreover developers may set their own rules to improve messages. For example a developer or other client member may utilize the formatter to create a list of words or other content that are used to screen message tone and content before publishing.

At step the formatter retrieves the message and subsequently checks if the message includes text at step . If yes the method proceeds to step where the formatter determines whether the text is compatible with the defined text rules and standards else the method proceeds to step .

At step no path from step the formatter either prompts the developer to modify the text or modifies the text automatically according to predetermined rules. Once the text is compatible the method proceeds to step where the formatter checks whether the message is a multimedia message. If yes the formatter checks whether the selected social media system permits multimedia messages at step . In case the selected social media system allows multimedia messages the method proceeds to check whether another social media system is selected for message delivery. If a certain social media system does not allow multimedia messages the formatter removes media from the message and saves the message at step . Next at step the formatter may create a separate page for the complete multimedia page and the page s URL may be added to the text message. In this manner developers may display multimedia messages on systems that do not permit multimedia messages. When a user selects the embedded link on the destination system the user will be redirected to the complete multimedia message on a separate page. Users may post comments and responses to the complete message from the redirected page directly.

At step if multiple destination systems are selected the method returns to step and the process is completed for the next system else the formatter saves changes to the message and exits.

The method begins at step where the importer monitors active marketing programs . The first step is a continuous step that loops continuously unless the importer is instructed to stop monitoring. If the importer detects any responses at step the corresponding response counter is incremented at step .

Embedded URLs are shortened using the Meta Refresh technology that first brings the user on the shortened URL webpage and after a short or no interval the webpage is refreshed and the user is redirected to the original web page. This redirection through the shortened URL allows the importer to track any click throughs. When a user clicks on the shortened URL the user first lands on an SRM generated URL where the number of visits can be recorded. As will be understood and appreciated embodiments of the present system are not limited solely to use of the known Meta Refresh technology to shorten URLs and other such technologies and methods are used in various embodiments as will occur to one of ordinary skill in the art.

At step the importer extracts any text responses from the marketing programs and stores the responses in the database for further analysis. Next the moderator at step inspects the stored responses. As described previously the moderator may incorporate multiple message screening word lists such as abusive language lists competitor names lists etc. At step in case the message text matches with any word in the screening word list the message is flagged. Moreover the moderator may check messages for embedded URLs. The message is automatically flagged if the message includes any URLs.

The moderator may be programmed to take any suitable action against flagged messages at step . For example on selecting any flagged message a new screen opens that allows the developers to delete the original message on the marketing campaign notify the associated developers store the message in the flagged repository or a combination of these.

If no detrimental issues were uncovered during the moderation the message is not flagged but saved in the database for further analysis at step . Here messages or response counter information from the marketing programs may be collected to generate statistical reports interactive charts and drill down graphs that depict the success or failure of a message to compel users to respond.

The SRM manages content at one or more social media outlets e.g. using the approach described above. The social content and messages can be tagged and or associated to CRM initiatives. The social responses can be analyzed based at least in part upon the CRM initiatives.

The content that is created for the social media outlets can be managed for example using a brand management system at the SRM that displays customized social media content within the framework of a brand profile e.g. using the Vitrue Tabs product available from Oracle Corporation of Redwood Shores Calif. . An example approach that can be taken to implement a brand management system is described in U.S. Patent Publication No. 2011 0145064 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The CRM system manages marketing initiatives and content across the various marketing platforms. For example email and or SMS social media system campaigns can be managed and targeted to selected targets. The responses can be captured from the various marketing channels. In addition the responses can be used to measure the effectiveness of the marketing initiatives. An example CRM system that can be used in conjunction with the invention is the Fusion product available from Oracle Corporation of Redwood Shores Calif.

Alternatively a marketing automation tool can be used in addition to or instead of the CRM system to implement some or all of these functions. For example a marketing automation product can be used to create and implement an email marketing campaign and to track responses from marketing targets. An example marketing automation tool that can be used in conjunction with the invention is the Eloqua product available from Oracle Corporation of Redwood Shores Calif. An example approach that can be taken to implement a marketing automation tool is described in U.S. Patent Publication Nos. US 2012 0185764 A1 and US 2009 0265221 A1 which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

Tagging of social content can be used to identify actionable content and to facilitate the engagement with customers. In some embodiments SOAP Simple Object Access Protocol Calls originate from the social marketing platform and use specially defined integration credentials for secure communication over HTTPS SSL. The SOAP calls use SSO enabled common credentials between the SRM system and the CRM system . In this approach the SRM system enables the system and or user to tag the content and to publish messages with CRM campaign tracking codes.

At some later point in time the SRM system will capture one or more sets of data from the social media site . This captured data includes for example Impressions Likes Shares and Comments.

The marketing user can associate tag the marketing content and posts with a campaign tracking code. In this way the data captured form the social media site can then be correlated with the marketing campaign. This permits for example statistical data roll ups to be performed upon the data. For example the campaign metrics can be aggregated by campaign ID for the posted content.

The SRM manages the social content as well as managing publishing to the social channels. Therefore in an example processing flow the SRM at step A will push a Form with targeted content to the social media site .

At step B the User Form submission with response data is captured an obtained at the SRM . The SRM enriches the response data based on for example CRM tags associated with the content.

At step C the SRM passes the enriched response data to the CRM marketing automation system . The CRM marketing automation system receives the social response data and this may results in some or all of the following actions a Create Response b Update Contact s profile data to record social media handle and or c Create Lead in the CRM system.

In some embodiment the user of the system defines custom rules to process the response data. The rules define for example de duplication rules using available attributes in the payload. The rules may also include for example action rules that create Response and Lead objects in the CRM system.

At the system alerts the company employees if certain products or product categories e.g. coconut water is trending e.g. within internal or external social networks. At a multi channel campaign can be created. Any suitable tool can be used to create the marketing campaign e.g. using a CRM system SRM system marketing automation system or any combination thereof.

The marketing campaign may include for example a coupon management component. Therefore at a coupon management application can be employed to manage the coupons.

At the company would then schedule publication of information related to the campaign on various social media outlets such as Facebook and Twitter. This release and schedule could be managed for example using the SRM system.

At a storefront e.g. either virtual or brick and mortar can be created to sell the product items e.g. to sell a limited number of the items. The Vitrue Shop product available from Oracle Corporation of Redwood Shores Calif. is an example of a system capable of creating and deploying a virtual storefront on a social media site.

At a later point in time the marketing campaign goes live at . Social monitoring services may be employed to categorize and route incoming messages related to the campaign. The messages are handled as appropriate at . For example negative messages are routed to a customer service team and positive messages are routed to be promoted on social media sites.

At analysis can also be performed e.g. to determine engagement levels and to measure the success of other campaign. If successful similar actions can thereafter be taken at for various other marketing regions.

As a result of the OSN postings various dashboards may be accessed by marketing personnel about the products product areas. illustrates an example dashboard regarding soft drinks which identifies and displays data for customer sentiments. In this example the dashboard shows that coconut water is trending upwards with massively popular sentiment. This indicates a clear marketing opportunity for the company.

Based upon this data a marketing campaign can be created e.g. using the Fusion CRM Marketing product Vitrue SRM product Eloqua product or any combination thereof all of which are available from Oracle Corporation of Redwood Shores Calif. illustrates an example campaign table for the marketing campaign. illustrates a multi channel campaign flow that can be organized for the campaign. The campaign flow may be populated with stages that include social media components.

As an example consider a custom coupon management component that can be created for the coconut water campaign. illustrates an example coupon management application that can be used to create a coupon where the interface comprises a map of locations for purchase of the product item being marketed. shows an interface that illustrates what happens when clicking on a map location in the application. Here store details usage and preview data may be shown including an image of the coupon . The application therefore permits marketing personnel to enter locations of the stores and its competitors. This permits location based offering of mobile coupons with delivery triggered when the customer checks in to a social media site e.g. when checking into Facebook.

Clicking on an item in the calendar brings up more detailed information for the scheduled items. shows an example posting for a social media site for the campaign. Each post is tied to the marketing campaign e.g. to the campaign object s and or data in the CRM system. The posts can be geographically targeted to certain regions e.g. to California. The posts are intended to for example drive consumers to purchase the product on the Facebook shop built just for the campaign.

As comments are received the community managers and customer service representatives can monitor and respond to the interactions. shows an interface that illustrates this interaction with fans. shows an interface that illustrates different actions that may be taken by community managers. The categorized messages are automatically routed to the correct groups by the system. Analysis may be performed on the campaign and the campaign results. illustrates a dashboard showing various interface elements to present metrics for the campaign.

Therefore what has been described is an approach for implementing a system method and computer program product for performing social marketing e.g. using a cloud based system. The invention is capable of accessing data across multiple types of internet based sources of social data and commentary and to perform analysis upon that data. A social marketing campaign can then be generated and implemented in an integrated manner using the system. This permits realtime reaction to trends with rapid ability to react to opportunities in the marketplace.

According to one embodiment of the invention computer system performs specific operations by processor executing one or more sequences of one or more instructions contained in system memory . Such instructions may be read into system memory from another computer readable usable medium such as static storage device or disk drive . In alternative embodiments hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement the invention. Thus embodiments of the invention are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and or software. In one embodiment the term logic shall mean any combination of software or hardware that is used to implement all or part of the invention.

The term computer readable medium or computer usable medium as used herein refers to any medium that participates in providing instructions to processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media and volatile media. Non volatile media includes for example optical or magnetic disks such as disk drive . Volatile media includes dynamic memory such as system memory .

Common forms of computer readable media includes for example floppy disk flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium CD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes RAM PROM EPROM FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge or any other medium from which a computer can read.

In an embodiment of the invention execution of the sequences of instructions to practice the invention is performed by a single computer system . According to other embodiments of the invention two or more computer systems coupled by communication link e.g. LAN PTSN or wireless network may perform the sequence of instructions required to practice the invention in coordination with one another.

Computer system may transmit and receive messages data and instructions including program i.e. application code through communication link and communication interface . Received program code may be executed by processor as it is received and or stored in disk drive or other non volatile storage for later execution.

In the foregoing specification the invention has been described with reference to specific embodiments thereof. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereto without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention. For example the above described process flows are described with reference to a particular ordering of process actions. However the ordering of many of the described process actions may be changed without affecting the scope or operation of the invention. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than restrictive sense.

