---

title: Method and apparatus for machine-to-machine event data recording
abstract: According to example teachings herein, a Machine-to-Machine (M2M) event recording function records M2M events for a Network Services Capability Layer (N-SCL) in an M2M network. In an example configuration, the recording function considers certain M2M information elements as mandatory for recording with respect to a given M2M event, while others are optional according to configuration information that controls M2M event recording. Each such recorded M2M event includes a number of M2M information elements that are mandatory, and optionally includes one or more additional information elements. In at least one embodiment, the mandatory M2M information elements allow M2M network events to be correlated with corresponding events in an access network used to access the M2M network. The recorded M2M events can be also correlated at the M2M service layer to fulfill certain billing needs, for catering to the potentially large number of diverse applications that can utilize the M2M network.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09490990&OS=09490990&RS=09490990
owner: Telefonaktiebolaget LM Ericsson (publ)
number: 09490990
owner_city: Stockholm
owner_country: SE
publication_date: 20130620
---
This application claims priority from the U.S. provisional patent application filed on 22 Jun. 2012 and assigned Application No. 61 663 192 which is incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention generally relates to Machine to Machine M2M networks and particularly relates to mechanisms for M2M event data recording e.g. for statistical processing and or offline charging.

Machine to Machine M2M services may be accessed using an access network such as a cellular or other wireless communication network. In such scenarios a given M2M entity connects to the M2M network through the access network. Determining how to bill for M2M services that are accessed in this manner is simplified in the case where the M2M service provider and the access network provider are one and the same. However when the M2M service provider and the access network provider are not the same a number of difficulties arise with respect to billing. For example the M2M service provider may not have access to all of the relevant data from the access network. The lack of relevant access network information limits the flexibility available in billing. Furthermore given the multitude of different applications that can potentially utilize the M2M framework there is a need to support flexible structures to fulfill different billing needs.

To better understand the difficulties arising in ensuring that the M2M service provider records the proper events to allow for accurate charging and flexible charging structures the following public documents are herein incorporated in their entirety by reference 3GPP TS 32.240 3rd Generation Partnership Project Technical Specification Group Services and System Aspects Telecommunication management Charging management Charging Architecture and principles and 3GPP TS 32.299 3rd Generation Partnership Project Technical Specification Group Services and System Aspects Telecommunication management Charging management Diameter charging applications. 

Among their several advantages the method and apparatus taught herein obviate or mitigate the aforementioned billing difficulties based on recording Machine to Machine M2M events for a Network Services Capability Layer N SCL within the M2M network. According to example teachings an M2M event recording function records a number of Machine to Machine M2M information elements associated with given M2M events involving the N SCL. In an example configuration the recording function considers certain M2M information elements as mandatory while others are optional according to configuration information used by the recording function to control M2M event recording. Thus in this example configuration each recorded M2M event includes a number of M2M information elements that are mandatory and optionally includes one or more additional information elements. In at least one embodiment the mandatory M2M information elements allow M2M network events to be correlated with corresponding events in an access network. Furthermore the recorded M2M events can be also correlated at the M2M service layer to fulfill certain billing needs for catering to the potentially large number of diverse applications that can utilize the M2M network.

One contemplated embodiment comprises a method of recording M2M events at an N SCL within an M2M network. Each M2M event will be understood as comprising an M2M request and may further comprise an M2M response to the M2M request. The method includes for a given M2M event initiating recording of the given M2M event responsive to the M2M request. Further the method includes recording the given M2M event by recording a number of M2M information elements associated with the M2M request to thereby obtain a recorded M2M event corresponding to the given M2M event. The number of M2M information elements recorded for the given M2M event include an access network identifier ID associated with the M2M request an M2M event tag characterizing an event class associated with the M2M request an M2M subscription ID associated with the M2M request an M2M application ID associated with the M2M request a time stamp associated with the M2M request a primitive type of the associated M2M request and an issuer of the M2M request a receiver targeted by the M2M request and a target Uniform Resource Locator URL identifying the target resource associated with the M2M request. Note that the M2M request in any given M2M event can be any request received or initiated by the N SCL to fulfill any given need.

The method further includes performing at least one of the following processing the recorded M2M events to obtain M2M event statistics at the N SCL and transferring the recorded M2M events or Call Data Records CDRs derived therefrom from the N SCL to a charging server for charging.

Another contemplated embodiment comprises a network server in an M2M network wherein the network server implements an N SCL for an M2M network and includes an interface and a processor. The interface is configured for communicating with other M2M entities within the M2M network while the processor is operatively associated with the interface and configured to implement an M2M event recording function that is configured to record M2M events.

The recording function is for any given M2M event configured to initiate recording of the given M2M event responsive to the M2M request and to record the given M2M event by recording a number of M2M information elements associated with the M2M event to thereby obtain a recorded M2M event corresponding to the given M2M event. As with the above described method the M2M information elements recorded for any given M2M event may comprise a number of mandatory M2M information elements and a number of optional information elements. In one example the recording function treats certain M2M information elements as mandatory to be recorded for each M2M event while it treats other M2M information elements as being optionally recorded according to configuration details embodied in the configuration information.

Other aspects and features of the present invention will become apparent to those ordinarily skilled in the art upon review of the following description of specific embodiments of the invention in conjunction with the accompanying figures.

The N SCL further implements an M2M event recording function which is configured to perform M2M event recording according to the teachings herein. In that respect the M2M event recording function stores recorded M2M events corresponding to respective M2M events and or stores Call Data Records CDRs that are derived from recording M2M events. The M2M event recording function is further associated with configuration information . As an example certain portions of the configuration information control which M2M information elements the M2M event recording function records for given M2M events.

The diagram illustrates further example details for the M2M network including one or more M2M devices that may connect directly to the N SCL shown by way of example as an M2M device implementing a device SCL D SCL which hosts a device application and an M2M device implementing a D SCL which hosts a device application . Of course a given M2M device and its D SCL may host more than one device application .

Additionally or alternatively an M2M device may not implement a D SCL . Instead the device applications hosted by such an M2M device use a gateway SCL G SCL in an M2M gateway to which the M2M device is connected. One sees an example of this arrangement in where the M2M device connects to the M2M gateway which in turn connects to the N SCL . The G SCL of the M2M gateway also may host one or more gateway applications . One such gateway application is shown in as GA . 

Additionally or alternatively one or more M2M devices may connect to the M2M network through an access network which generally is not part of the M2M network and which may be operated by a service provider different than the service provider that provides the M2M network . illustrates an example of this scenario wherein an M2M device connects to the M2M network through the access network . The M2M device implements a D SCL and hosts a device application . To communicate with the M2M network an access bearer must first be established between the M2M device and the access network and it will be understood that the M2M device generally will have certificates or other access credentials for being authenticated by the access network for such connections.

The N SCL the network applications the D SCLs and the device applications and the G SCLs and the gateway applications all may be considered as respective individual M2M entities within the M2M network . Various ones of these M2M entities conduct or are otherwise involved in M2M events within the M2M network and the N SCL e.g. by virtue of the M2M event recording function is configured to record M2M events by recording certain M2M information elements as a recorded M2M event for any given M2M event being recorded by the M2M event recording function .

The method for a given M2M event to be recorded includes initiating recording of the given M2M event responsive to the M2M request Block . The method further includes recording the given M2M event by recording a number of M2M information elements associated with the given M2M event. At least a portion of such recording may be based on information in the M2M request and or the corresponding M2M response irrespective of whether the request is initiated or received by the N SCL . The M2M event recording function thereby obtains a recorded M2M event corresponding to the given M2M event Block . The M2M information elements recorded as the M2M recorded event include an access network identifier ID associated with the M2M request such as the identifier of the access network an M2M event tag characterizing an event class associated with the M2M request an M2M subscription ID within the M2M domain and associated with the M2M request an M2M application ID if any associated with the M2M request a time stamp associated with the M2M request a primitive type of the associated M2M request and an issuer of the M2M request a receiver targeted by the M2M request and a target Uniform Resource Locator URL that is associated with the M2M request and identifies the resource targeted by the M2M request. These M2M information elements may be considered as being mandatory for recording for any given M2M event being recorded.

The method further includes performing Block at least one of the following processing the recorded M2M events to obtain M2M event statistics and transferring the recorded M2M events or CDRs derived therefrom to a charging server for charging.

The M2M event recording function may be configured to record all M2M events involving the N SCL or to record M2M events of a certain type or M2M events occurring at certain times or involving certain access networks or involving certain M2M entities or groups thereof. Of course these qualifications can be combined e.g. so that M2M events of certain types or involving certain M2M entities are recorded. As will be seen later whether a given M2M event is recorded and or the particular M2M information elements recorded for that event can be configured will depend on the type or particulars of the corresponding M2M request.

For any given M2M event that involves the creation of an access bearer in an access network by an M2M entity involved in the given M2M event the method may further include recording in the corresponding recorded M2M event information that identifies an IP address of the M2M entity. As an example for any given M2M event that comprises a registration event in which an M2M entity registers with the N SCL the method in at least one embodiment further comprises obtaining an IP address of the M2M entity from M2M Point of Contact PoC information provided to the N SCL during the registration event and including in the corresponding recorded M2M event information that identifies the IP address.

For any given M2M event that comprises a data storage resource consumption event involving M2M data e.g. M2M application data stored at the N SCL the method may further comprise including in the corresponding recorded M2M event information that identifies an M2M entity that stored the M2M data information that identifies any M2M entity that deleted the M2M data and information that indicates a duration of time that the M2M data was stored at the N SCL as well as the storage amount being utilized during that time duration.

For any given M2M event that comprises a data transfer event involving M2M data being stored at or retrieved from the N SCL the method may further comprise including in the corresponding recorded M2M event information that identifies the M2M entity that stored or retrieved the M2M data and information that indicates an amount of information transferred in the data transfer event. In at least one such embodiment the additional information recorded for the data transfer event indicates an amount of M2M data transferred for the data transfer event and further indicates an amount of control information related to the data transfer event transferred for the data transfer event. Thus the recorded M2M event includes information that would allow billing for the amount of actual M2M data transferred based on knowing how much of the overall data transfer was M2M data versus overhead i.e. control information .

For any given M2M event that comprises a connectivity event involving an M2M entity connecting to the N SCL for data storage or retrieval the method may further comprise including in the corresponding recorded M2M event information that identifies the connecting M2M entity.

The method according to any of the above embodiments may further include controlling M2M event recording by the M2M event recording function according to configuration information that configures M2M event recording by the M2M event recording function based on specifying which M2M information elements are recorded for which M2M events according to one or more of parameters. Such parameters include the type of M2M event being recorded the type or identity of the M2M entity that issued the M2M request corresponding to the M2M event being recorded the identity or group association of the M2M entity that issued the M2M request and the type or identity of the M2M entity targeted as the receiver of the M2M request corresponding to the M2M event being recorded. As noted some number of specific M2M information elements may be considered as being mandatory to record for any given M2M event being recorded while others are considered as being optional in dependence on the configuration information .

That is an owner or operator of the network server N SCL uses the configuration information to control which optional M2M information elements are recorded for M2M events based on setting one or more parameters in the configuration information . As such it will be appreciated that the configuration information controls which additional M2M information elements beyond the mandatory ones are optionally recorded for any given M2M event being recorded.

In one example the configuration information controls which ones of the following M2M information elements are recorded as the additional M2M information elements that are optionally recorded for any given M2M event being recorded an indicator of the SCL or hosting the resource targeted by the M2M request in case the N SCL does not host the resource identified in the M2M request a protocol type of the associated M2M request a header size of the associated M2M request a header size of the M2M response sent in response to the associated M2M request a body size of the associated M2M request a body size of the M2M response a response code corresponding to the M2M response a control memory size indicating the amount of memory needed to store control information associated with the M2M event being recorded a data memory size indicating the amount of memory needed to store data associated with the M2M event being recorded and additional vendor specific information particular to an operator or owner of the N SCL .

In at least one embodiment the M2M information elements recorded for any given M2M event according to the method include the M2M IDs for all M2M entities involved in the given M2M event. Again an M2M entity may be any M2M application or an SCL that is involved in the M2M request and or the M2M response corresponding to the M2M event being recorded. Recording all such M2M identities as part of the method supports later charging of any given M2M event to any one or more of the M2M entities that were recorded as being involved in the event.

The method may further include the M2M event recording function maintaining the following associations associations between device SCL identifiers D SCL IDs and correspondingly allocated M2M subscription IDs associations between gateway SCL identifiers G SCL IDs and correspondingly allocated M2M subscription IDs associations between device application IDs DA IDs gateway application IDs GA IDs and network application IDs NA IDs and correspondingly allocated M2M subscription IDs. Further according to such embodiments of the method the M2M event recording function determines the M2M subscription ID associated with any given M2M request based on the associations.

It will be understood that the method is implemented via an appropriately configured network server or other computing platform which implements the M2M event recording function . In an example implementation the network server implements the N SCL and comprises an interface for communicating with other M2M entities within the M2M network e.g. for communicating with applications and other SCLs and further includes a processor operatively associated with the interface. The processor implements the M2M event recording function for recording M2M events according to the teachings herein.

Each M2M event comprises an M2M request and may further comprise an M2M response. The response may comprise an outgoing message and or processing triggered by the M2M request. For a given M2M event among M2M events being recorded the M2M event recording function is configured to initiate recording of the given M2M event responsive to the M2M request and to record the given M2M event by recording a number of M2M information elements associated with the M2M event. The M2M event recording function thereby obtains a recorded M2M event corresponding to the given M2M event. The recorded M2M event includes a number of M2M information elements that for example allow M2M network events to be correlated with corresponding access network events e.g. for billing or other reconciliations. Additionally or alternatively the recorded M2M events are processed by the M2M event recording function to obtain M2M event statistics which may be used for characterizing network usage etc.

In one or more embodiments the M2M event recording function is configured to record at least the following M2M information elements an access network ID associated with the M2M request an M2M event tag characterizing an event class associated with the M2M request an M2M subscription ID associated with the M2M request an M2M application ID if any associated with the M2M request a time stamp associated with the M2M request a primitive type of the associated M2M request the primitive type identifies the request such as SCL CREATE REQUEST or APPLICATION CREATE REQUEST and an issuer of the M2M request a receiver targeted by the M2M request and a target Uniform Resource Locator URL identifying the target resource associated with the M2M request.

Further the M2M event recording function is configured to perform at least one of the following process the recorded M2M events to obtain M2M event statistics and transfer the recorded M2M events or CDRs derived therefrom to a charging server for charging. Of course it will be understood that the M2M event recording function may be configured to carry out any or all of the variations of the method as described above and that the network server which implements such functionality will include or otherwise provide access to a computer readable medium or media for storing the recorded M2M events any derived CDRs and the configuration information . The same or other medium in or accessible to the network server is used in one or more embodiments for storing computer program instructions the execution of which by the network server processor implements M2M event recording according to the teachings herein i.e. implements the disclosed M2M event recording function within or in association with the N SCL .

With the above examples in mind it is recognized herein that various informational elements have to be recorded for statistical and or charging purposes both for online and offline charging. An example overall architecture in support of the contemplated information recording is depicted in . The M2M event recording function is explicitly shown in both figures and it provides for recording the desired data. Of course given the flexibility of programmable computer circuitry those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that the M2M event recording function may be embodied as a functional circuit within a CPU or other processor and supporting computer memory.

With that in mind the N SCL in one or more embodiments initiates M2M event recording based on any of the following triggers a request related to an M2M REST based defined procedure received by the N SCL from D GSCL a request related to an M2M REST based defined procedure received by the N SCL from an M2M application DA GA NA and a request related to an M2M REST based defined procedure initiated by the N SCL . M2M events involving such M2M requests at the N SCL will therefore trigger M2M event recording by the M2M event recording function . As will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art REST is an acronym for Representational State Transfer. REST uses a stateless client server cacheable communications protocol. In particular REST is commonly implemented using the HyperText Transfer Protocol HTTP .

The actual REST based procedures to use for triggering M2M event recording is sufficiently flexible so as to be configurable on a per SCL basis for requests originating arriving from at the N SCL respectively on a per application basis NA GA DA basis for requests originating arriving from at the N SCL respectively and as a default behavior for non configured SCLs applications. Configuration for a group of SCLs and applications NA GA DA that share the same configuration can also be supported under this structure.

The unit of recording by the M2M event recording function is referred to herein as an M2M event. In a non limiting example an M2M event can represent a REST based request and the corresponding response or it can hold other information. An M2M event is preferably tagged or otherwise characterized to depict its content. As previously explained the M2M information elements recorded for any given M2M event are collectively referred to as a recorded M2M event . Thus the M2M event recording function will accumulate multiple recorded M2M events as given M2M events occur.

In more detail for M2M event recording in the REST context M2M REST based procedures can be classified as follows data related procedures represent procedures associated with data storage or retrieval from the N SCL e.g. container related procedures control related procedures can be used to represent all procedures that are not associated with data storage retrieval from the N SCL with the possible exclusion of group and device management related procedures e.g. M2M subscription procedures group related procedures can be used to represent procedures that handle groups and device management procedures. In at least one embodiment that may be particularly advantageous each M2M event related to an M2M REST based procedure is tagged to depict its classification according to the above described procedure types. The event tag is a mandatory element configurable according to the configuration information in one or more embodiments.

Those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that the use of REST based procedures and or the use of HTTP are non limiting examples with respect to the N SCL and its associated method . Thus other procedure types and or protocols may be used.

Broadly the M2M event recording function can record any of M2M information elements shown in the table for any of the event recording triggers discussed. Those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the description of an element as being mandatory or optional in the table makes specific reference to being mandatory to a particular embodiment and need not be considered as mandatory in all embodiments. For all elements described as being non mandatory for the exemplary embodiment represented by the M2M event recording function can be configurable to select any additional desired information to be recorded in addition to the mandatory M2M information elements. This configuration capability can be applied to all or respective ones of the configured REST based procedures selected for triggering M2M event recording for the N SCL . However in one or more embodiments contemplated herein M2M event recording does include the mandatory M2M information elements depicted in with the motivation being the need to include all relevant M2M identifiers within each recorded M2M event so that it is possible to support multiple charging scenarios.

To enable the M2M event recording function to record the necessary information as described above the following associations are preferably maintained by the M2M service provider e.g. maintained by the M2M event recording function all D SCL IDs and their allocated M2M subscription IDs all G SCL IDs and their allocated M2M subscription IDs and all application IDs GA DA NA and their allocated M2M subscription IDs. Using the established associations as described above the M2M event recording function can derive the appropriate M2M subscription ID depending on the trigger.

Referring again to one sees a charging architecture representing an exemplary embodiment contemplated herein. Charging information in the form of CDRs as shown in can be derived from the recorded M2M events accumulated by the M2M event recording function and transferred to the charging server . The M2M event recording function can derive the CDRs from the corresponding recorded M2M events. In one such embodiment the CDRs have a one to one correspondence with respective ones of the recorded M2M events meaning they contain the same M2M information elements. Of course such information may appear in the CDRs in a different ordering or in a different structure than used for the recorded M2M events e.g. for compatibility with the charging server .

In other embodiments the mapping between CDRs and recorded M2M events is not one to one. For example the CDR corresponding to a given recorded M2M event may omit certain information that is in the recorded M2M event and or may include additional information not in the recorded M2M event such as derived or additional information.

Regardless to facilitate interworking between the M2M network and existing access networks the charging architecture embodied within the M2M event recording function N SCL can be aligned with existing charging solutions in cellular access networks based on using existing interfaces to transfer the required information to the charging server for offline charging such as are defined by the Third Generation Partnership Project or 3GPP. In this respect the charging function shown in as being embedded within the M2M event recording function is configured such that it is responsible for interaction with the charging server according to any applicable standards and protocols. Of course the functionality represented by the charging function may be implemented in any number of ways within the processing resources used to implement the overall M2M event recording function .

Also as noted previously while the recorded M2M events provide a basis for offline charging not all of the specified M2M information elements are required to be recorded in all cases and or may not be required for billing purposes. Hence the M2M event recording function is configurable in one or more embodiments to generate the CDRs using selected M2M information elements from among those captured in the recorded M2M events . As such it will be understood that M2M information elements captured by the M2M event recording function are configurable according to setting parameters in the configuration information . Additionally or alternatively the CDRs are configurable in the sense that one or more other parameters in the configuration information may be set to control which M2M information elements from the recorded M2M events are included in the CDRs .

For example in one or more embodiments the M2M event recording function operates with configuration options for the charging function that control the charging information that is transferred to the charging server as the CDRs . For example the REST procedures for determining the content of CDRs transferred to the charging server may be configured on a per SCL basis for requests originating arriving from at the N SCL respectively. Additionally for requests originating arriving from at the N SCL it is contemplated herein to make the content of the CDRs transferred to the charging server configurable on a per application basis e.g. per NA GA and or DA . Still further in at least one such embodiment the M2M event recording function charging function operate according to a default behavior if no specific configuration options are set via the configuration information . In such a default mode all or pre selected ones of the M2M information elements in the recorded M2M events may be included in the CDRs sent to the charging server .

Further configurations for groups of SCLs and or groups of applications are supported in one or more embodiments. The charging function can ensure that information selected to be transferred to the charging Server has also been selected for recording. Within this context the term charging scenario refers to any scenario for which an M2M entity can be billed i.e. a scenario that is deemed billable by the M2M service provider associated with the M2M network . Some charging scenarios require a single CDR with respect to a single recorded M2M event . Others require multiple CDRs to be generated for the same recorded M2M event e.g. where billing is reconciled on a per M2M entity basis and a CDR must be generated for each M2M entity involved in a given M2M event. Such correlations between recorded M2M events and the CDR s to be generated therefrom preferably are defined by the configuration information or are otherwise defined within the M2M event recording function .

In one charging scenario the M2M event in question is a data storage resource consumption event where an M2M entity stores application data using containers and related procedures for such purposes. For example a given M2M entity stores M2M data within the N SCL . Thus the M2M entity actually the owner subscriber associated therewith can be billed for the consumption of storage resources within the N SCL until such time as the resources are deleted. This scenario requires correlation between multiple CDRs to identify the M2M entity that stored the data the M2M entity that deleted the same data and the duration of time the data was stored and amount of storage during that time. There will be a corresponding recorded M2M event for every CDR required in this case.

In another example scenario related to charging a given M2M event is a data transfer event in which a given M2M entity retrieves or stores container data. The involved M2M entity can be billed for the amount of transferred data. As such the recorded M2M event captured for the data transfer event shall include one or more M2M information elements indicating the amount s of actual M2M data and or associated control signaling involved in the data transfer event. There will be a corresponding CDR generated and transferred to the charging server for each recorded M2M event that is associated with a data transfer in this case.

In another example any given M2M event is a connectivity event wherein an M2M entity connects to the N SCL . Such connections frequently involve transfers of small amounts of data retrieval or storage . In this scenario the involved M2M entity can be charged for the connectivity as opposed to the stored amount of data. The same can also be applied to an M2M entity that frequently connects to the N SCL for retrieval of stored data. A hybrid charging arrangement is also contemplated wherein CDRs are generated for both connectivity and data storage. It is contemplated herein that two or more related CDRs will be generated so as to include common information thus allowing them to be correlated by the charging server . Thus if multiple CDRs are generated from a given recorded M2M event those multiple CDRs are related as being generated for the same M2M event within the M2M network and they will include one or more common information elements that allows the charging server to recognize the relationship.

In one contemplated embodiment the M2M event recording function obtains the IP address of the M2M entity involved in any given M2M event that is captured by the M2M event recording function as a corresponding recorded M2M event . The IP address can be included in all CDRs generated for the given M2M event and thus can serve as the common information element that allows the charging server to correlate multiple CDRs to the same event.

This configuration works well when M2M entities use a 3GPP based cellular network to connect to the M2M network as the IP address assigned by the cellular network can be captured by the M2M event recording function in the recorded M2M event corresponding to any given M2M event involving a so connected M2M entity. Thus in one or more embodiments contemplated herein at least where 3GPP access networks are used to connect to the M2M network the CDRs produced by the M2M event recording function include information identifying the IP addresses of the M2M entities that created the access network bearers to make such connections.

For example the IP address captured in a given recorded M2M event and or the CDR s generated therefrom is the same as address as that declared by a D G SCL in the M2MPoC resource when it registers with the N SCL . If for some reason the D G SCL declared a Fully Qualified Domain Name FQDN in the M2MPoC the FQDN is resolved to the IP address in question. The M2M recording function includes the IP address associated with the access network in the M2M information elements stored in the corresponding recorded M2M event .

The IP address to be included is that of the G D SCL or M2M application for requests originating from the N SCL or arriving at the N SCL . The IP address can be extracted from the M2MPoC associated with the G D SCL or application directly or through DNS resolution if a FQDN is declared. It is also contemplated that correlating CDRs based on the included IP address may further include correlating recorded event time stamps especially if the IP address alone is not sufficient for deeming two CDRs as corresponding to the same recorded M2M event .

Broadly the various embodiments described herein may be implemented via software products stored in a machine readable medium also referred to as a computer readable medium a processor readable medium or a computer usable medium having a computer readable program code embodied therein . The machine readable medium may be any suitable tangible medium including a magnetic optical or electrical storage medium including a diskette compact disk read only memory CD ROM digital versatile disc read only memory DVD ROM memory device volatile or non volatile or similar storage mechanism. The machine readable medium may contain various sets of instructions code sequences configuration information or other data which when executed cause a processor to perform steps in a method according to an embodiment of the invention.

Those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that other instructions and operations necessary to implement the described invention may also be stored on the machine readable medium. Software running from the machine readable medium will be understood as running on and or interfacing with circuitry to perform the described operations.

Notably modifications and other embodiments of the disclosed invention s will come to mind to one skilled in the art having the benefit of the teachings presented in the foregoing descriptions and the associated drawings. Therefore it is to be understood that the invention s is are not to be limited to the specific embodiments disclosed and that modifications and other embodiments are intended to be included within the scope of this disclosure. Although specific terms may be employed herein they are used in a generic and descriptive sense only and not for purposes of limitation.

