---

title: Inertial delay fuse
abstract: An inertial delay mechanism for use in an explosive projectile is provided. The delay mechanism consists of an inertial delay fuse that is precise, doesn't require sensitive primary explosives and doesn't utilize electronic circuitry. The inertial delay fuse includes a free sliding charge element that strikes an anvil located opposite to the sliding charge element. A delay gap is provided between the sliding charge element and the anvil. Upon impact, the sliding charge element slides forward and impacts the anvil, thereby inducing a shock wave in an initiator charge that subsequently results in detonation of main charges. The design is mechanically simple and robust enough to withstand severe g-loading forces that occur during firing and penetration of a projectile.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08584585&OS=08584585&RS=08584585
owner: BAE Systems Information and Electronic Systems Integration Inc.
number: 08584585
owner_city: Nashua
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130401
---
This Application is a divisional of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 023 320 filed Jan. 31 2008 the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The invention was made with United States Government Support under Contract No. DTRA 99 C 0080 awarded by Defense Threat Reduction Agency and W15Qkn 04 C 1110 awarded by Army Research and Development Command. The United States Government has certain rights in the invention.

The invention is directed to providing a delay mechanism for an explosive projectile. In particular the invention is directed to providing an inertial delay fuse for use in explosive projectiles.

In many explosive projectile applications such as projectile based drilling or excavation the detonation of an explosive payload carried by the projectile preferably occurs after the projectile strikes and penetrates the target. The delay in detonating the explosive payload allows the projectile to penetrate into the target a prescribed distance before detonation thereby allowing a greater amount of material to be excavated as opposed to having the projectile detonate upon impact. Due to the velocity of the fired projectile the delay in detonation must be short on the order of tens or hundreds of microseconds to allow for the delivery of the explosive payload at an appropriate depth within the target.

Conventional chemical delay elements are not precise enough to be utilized for explosive projectile drilling applications. Chemical delay elements generally provide delays on the order of milliseconds with variances on the order of hundreds of microseconds as opposed to tens of microseconds. In addition very sensitive primary explosives are required when chemical delay elements are used. The use of such sensitive primary explosives for chemical makes the handling and firing of projectiles fitted with chemical delays inherently dangerous.

Electronic delays can also be utilized in projectiles. Electronic delay elements can be very precise and flexible however they also require complex and fragile circuitry that is relatively expensive. In addition electronic delays require that an energy storage device be incorporated into each projectile. Available energy storage devices are relatively bulky and heavy and are not particularly well suited for use in the relatively small projectiles used for excavation. In addition energy sources may degrade over time causing problems in the reliability of projectiles that have been stored for long periods

In view of the above it would be desirable to provide a delay mechanism that can be readily incorporated into an explosive projectile without requiring very sensitive primary explosives of conventional chemical delay devices or the circuitry of conventional electronic delay devices. Accordingly such a delay mechanism would be less expensive to manufacture safer to handle and more reliable.

The invention provides a delay mechanism for use in an explosive projectile. Specifically the delay mechanism consists of an inertial delay fuse that is precise doesn t require sensitive primary explosives and doesn t utilize electronic circuitry. The inertial delay fuse includes a free sliding charge element that strikes an anvil located opposite to the sliding charge element. A delay gap is provided between the sliding charge element and the anvil. Upon impact the sliding charge element slides forward and impacts the anvil thereby inducing a shock wave in an initiator charge that subsequently results in detonation of main charges. Alternatively the anvil can be used to set off a stab detonator. The design is mechanically simple and robust enough to withstand severe g loading forces that occur during firing and penetration of a projectile.

The sliding charge element preferably includes a cup in which at least one initiator charge pellet is located. In one preferred structure main charge pellets are also located in the cup such that the main charge pellets form part of the sliding charge element that freely slides forward upon impact of a projectile containing the fuse. In another preferred structure the cup is retained within a delay tube and the main charge pellets are located around the delay tube such that only initiator charge pellets form part of the freely sliding charge element.

In the case of use of the delay tube the delay tube preferably includes openings adjacent to the anvil. Detonation of the main charges is accomplished through the use of a flyer plate mechanism in which portions of the cup pass through the openings of the delay tube to strike an explosive lead charge pellet.

In an alternative embodiment the cup includes an opening and the anvil includes a projection that fits into the opening provided in the cup. The cup moves forward upon impact causing the projection to pass through the opening and strike a conventional stab detonator such as an M55 Detonator.

An inner surface of the cup is preferably shaped to focus a shock wave into the initiator charge. For example a concave portion is formed on the inner surface of the cup that faces the initiator charge.

An explosive projectile incorporating an inertial delay fuse in accordance with a first embodiment of the invention is shown in . The projectile includes a penetrating nose cone a casing a sabot and a pusher plate that allows for acceleration in a gun bore. A nose charge and a nose charge initiator are provided within the nose cone . A sliding main charge element is provided within the casing . The sliding main charge element includes an initiator charge pellet PSTN several main charge pellets Pax 11 and a tamper that are located within a sliding cup preferably 7075 aluminum . The sliding main charge element is placed at the rear of the projectile such that a machined tab of the sliding cup is retained by an edge of the casing . The tab holds the sliding cup in a fixed position until the projectile impacts a target. At that point the tab breaks and allows the sliding cup to slide forward as will be described in greater detail below. An anvil made of a dense material for example HD 18.5 Tungsten Alloy is placed at the front of the projectile adjacent to the nose cone such that a delay gap is provided between a front face of the sliding cup and a face of the anvil . The anvil is screwed into a coupler which is also threaded to accept and hold the nose cone to the casing . In the above described configuration the projectile essentially consists of two primary masses namely the sliding main charge element and the penetrating nose cone which are accelerated together when fired from the bore of a gun.

In operation the nose cone is slowed down by forces transferred to the nose cone when the projectile strikes a target. The sliding main charge element however essentially retains its velocity as the tab of the sliding cup breaks free from the casing due to the large applied forces thereby allowing the sliding main charge element to slide freely toward the anvil through the delay gap. The sliding main charge element builds forward velocity relative to the decelerating nose block as it passes through the delay gap. After a predetermined period defined in part by the length of the delay gap the sliding cap strikes the anvil and a high pressure shock wave is created that propagates back through the sliding cap and into the initiator charge pellet where the shock wave runs up to a detonation wave. The detonation wave transfers into the main charge pellets located adjacent to the initiator charge pellet causing full detonation of the sliding main charge element . The tamper preferably made of Copper is provided to add mass and increase the time at pressure as the sliding main charge element detonates. The high pressure resulting from the detonation of the sliding main charge element in turn launches a shock wave in the forward direction that propagates back through the anvil the coupler and into the nose charge initiator . The shock wave runs up to a detonation wave in the initiator charge causing the nose charge to detonate and thereby fracture the nose cone .

As will be readily appreciated by those skilled in the art the delay in detonation can be precisely set by changing factors including but not limited to the length of the delay gap the total projectile mass the mass of the sliding main charge the shape of the nose cone and the strike velocity. Accordingly the delay time between impact and detonation can be precisely controlled on the order of microseconds to compensate for weak or strong targets desired depth of penetration etc. using a very simple and robust mechanical structure. Accordingly the deficiencies of conventional chemical and electrical fuses can be avoided.

A second embodiment of the invention will now be described with reference to . The second embodiment primarily differs from the first embodiment in that only a sliding initiator charge element is used instead of a sliding main charge element. As shown in an explosive projectile is shown that includes a casing an anvil located in the front of the casing a delay tube fitted along a central axis of the casing several main charge pellets for example PAX 11 that surround the delay tube a first stage nose pellet and second stage nose pellet for example PBX 9407 a base plate a sliding initiator charge element an end cap that screws into the casing a sealing O ring a sabot and a sabot retainer .

As shown in the sliding initiator charge element includes a sliding cup preferably manufactured from AZ31B Magnesium which retains a first stage initiator charge pellet PETN several second stage initiator charge pellets PETN and a hammer element preferably Tungsten . The sliding cup as in the first embodiment also includes a tab that is used to hold the sliding initiator charge element in place until the projectile impacts a target. In the illustrated embodiment the tab is a machined circular lip that extends around the entire circumference of the end of the sliding cup . The tab however may be formed of one or more tab elements instead of a single circular lip. An inner surface of the sliding cup also preferably includes a concave portion that focuses a shock wave into the first stage initiator charge pellet as will be described in greater detail below.

As in the case of the first embodiment the second embodiment uses the built up velocity difference between the penetrating nose of the casing and the sliding initiator charge element caused by the impact of the projectile on a target to both delay and initiate the explosive train. Unlike the first embodiment however the main charge pellets are separated from the sliding cup such that the main charge pellets do not move. Instead only the first and second stage initiator charge pellets contained within the sliding cup move down the delay tube and pass through the delay gap. After a predetermined time period determined in part by the length of the delay gap between the initial location of the sliding cup and the anvil the sliding cup strikes the anvil causing a shock wave to travel rearward into the first initiator charge pellet . The shock wave subsequently runs up to a detonation wave and is transferred to the second initiator charge pellet . The detonation wave is preferably transferred to the first and second stage nose charge pellets through a flyer plate initiation mechanism. Specifically portions of the sliding cup are blown outward in the radial direction into transfer holes provided in the delay tube . The fragmented portions of the sliding cup act as mini flyer plates that impact the first stage nose charge pellet causing it to run up to detonation. Detonation then propagates through the second stage nose charge pellet and into the main charge pellets . Delay time can be adjusted in the same manner as in the first embodiment. As shown in the illustrated embodiments the end of the delay tube is preferably expanded in diameter to provide a volume to mitigate the gas pressure buildup.

In this embodiment the hammer performs a function similar to the tamper of the first embodiment by increasing the time at pressure when the sliding initiator charge element detonates. The length of the sliding initiator charge element is preferably adjusted such that the hammer ends up in a location adjacent to the transfer holes such that the mass of the hammer assists in directing the detonation shock wave to push the fragments of the sliding cup through the transfer holes . It is preferable that the mass of the hammer be greater than the combined mass of the other elements of the sliding initiator charge element . The increased mass of the hammer provides a benefit in that the tab of the sliding cup can be made of a thickness for example four thousands of an inch that is easily machined. Without the heavy hammer the tab would have to be much thinner for example two thousands of an inch to insure breakage upon impact of the projectile on a target.

The provision of the delay gap in parallel with the main charge in the second embodiment of rather than in series as provided in the first embodiment of allows both for a shorter projectile and a longer delay gap while minimizing fuse volume. A shorter projectile translates into a lighter projectile and a shorter cartridge while a longer delay gap translates into a higher slapping velocity and consequently a more reliable functioning of the initiator. The need for a nose charge is also eliminated in the embodiment of as the first and second stage nose charge pellets also serve to break up the nose of the projectile . Another benefit of the parallel delay gap configuration is a lower strike velocity to deliver the main charge to a given depth in a target. In contrast the series delay gap of the first embodiment serves to reduce the deceleration pressure in the main charge during penetration because the main charge is free to slide. Thus a more shock sensitive explosive can be utilized in the main charge of the first embodiment.

The invention has been described with reference to certain preferred embodiments thereof. It will be understood however that modifications and variations are possible within the scope of the appended claims. For example while the embodiment of preferably includes the use of a nose cone charge to fragment the nose cone. While the fragmentation of the nose cone is desirable in excavation applications it may not be necessary in other projectile applications. Accordingly the nose cone charge can be eliminated if not required for a particular application. Further the number of main and initiator charge pellets may be varied depending on the required application. In addition while the use of the tamper and hammer are preferable these elements may also be eliminated depending on the particular application. Still further the structural configuration of the illustrated components may also be varied as long as the concept of using mechanical inertia to cause detonation is employed.

