---

title: Adjustable vehicle armrest and tambour door
abstract: A vehicle armrest is designed to allow for sliding movement between retracted and extended positions as desired by the vehicle occupant. A tambour door is disposed over at least part of the armrest, and may be moved fore and aft to allow access to storage volumes within the armrest or a support structure. The armrest is supported by sliding structures, such as engaged rails, and the tambour door is supported by tracks, one of which is fixed or stationary, and the other of which moves with the armrest. In this manner, the tambour door may be fully supported as it moves fore and aft, whether the armrest is in the retracted or extended position.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09457697&OS=09457697&RS=09457697
owner: 
number: 09457697
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20130712
---
This application is a national stage of PCT Application No. PCT US2013 050320 entitled ADJUSTABLE VEHICLE ARMREST AND TAMBOUR DOOR filed on Jul. 12 2013 which claims priority from and the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 671 376 entitled ADJUSTABLE VEHICLE ARM REST AND TAMBOUR DOOR filed on Jul. 13 2012. Each of the listed applications is incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The invention relates generally to vehicle interior components and more particularly to an adjustable console armrest with a tambour door.

Over recent years many different vehicle consoles in armrests have been developed particularly for use in cars and trucks. Many of these are designed to be placed between front vehicle seats although some are placed in other locations such as between rear seats. Such consoles often provide for storage of various articles and may conveniently offer functionality as a cushioned armrest. More recent developments in the area include the ability to adjust or slide an armrest to a comfortable position. In such sliding armrests one or more parts of the armrest may be slid forward or aft as desired by the vehicle occupant.

Certain consoles and armrests also include devices and structures intended to cover the interior storage volumes when access to them is not required. Such structures may comprise various types of doors that are hinged or slidably mounted on the console or armrest. One popular type of door is sometimes referred to as a tambour door. Tambour doors are typically constructed so that they can be slid back and forth often sliding into a concealed space when opened to reveal the storage volumes of the console or armrest.

To date however no real attempt has been made to unite these types of developments. There is a need in the art therefore for innovative solutions to providing armrest functionality and covers such as tambour doors in arrangements that can be adjusted for the convenience of the vehicle occupants.

The invention provides a novel armrest and tambour door assembly designed to respond to such needs. In accordance with certain aspects a vehicle armrest system is provided that includes a support structure and an armrest slidingly supported by the support structure and slidable between a retracted position and an extended position. A tambour door slidingly disposed with respect to the armrest and slidable between opened and closed positions in both the retracted position and the extended position of the armrest.

Turning now to the drawings illustrates an exemplary vehicle of the type in which the invention may be deployed. The vehicle in this case a car has an interior volume in which various interior components are situated such as seats and a center console . The center console supports an armrest that is designed to be adjustably extendable and retractable for the convenience of the vehicle occupants. The armrest allows for access into one or more interior storage volumes by manipulation of a tambour door. Similarly opening of the tambour door may expose and render accessible one or more of various electronic devices charging ports e.g. for mobile telephones wireless power surfaces switches and so forth. As illustrated the console is positioned between forward seats of the vehicle although armrests tambour doors and indeed entire consoles may be adapted for positioning in rear seats in various positions within trucks busses aircraft boats and any other suitable vehicles.

As shown in an armrest system supported by the console generally comprises a support structure on which the armrest itself is disposed. The support structure according to an exemplary embodiment may be part of the console or a sub assembly may be formed and this may be secured to the console during final assembly. A stationary portion of the armrest system does not move with respect to the support structure while a movable portion is designed to allow the armrest to be extended and retracted. The movable portion is shown in in its retracted position. In general the movable portion may be thought of as the actual armrest while the overall support structure may be thought of as comprising the stationary portion and some sort of base . Here again this base may comprise all or a portion of a console that is designed to be secured to the vehicle floorboard or to a seat structure or any other internal securement point. As also shown in a tambour door is disposed over at least a part of the movable portion . The tambour door may be opened and closed by sliding. For example as shown in the tambour door is in a partially open position exposing a storage volume. When the tambour door is opened the tambour door is at least partially hidden within the support structure passing through or into the stationary portion . In the retracted position of the armrest system the rear portion of the tambour door is hidden within the stationary portion of the armrest or within the base or both.

It should be noted that the particular arrangement illustrated in the figures and described herein is intended to be exemplary only. For example according to this exemplary embodiment a central tambour door is provided between or within frame like sides or edges of the armrest. In variations of the new armrest system the tambour door may not extend as far forward as in the illustrations or may cover only a portion of the armrest. Similarly the tambour door may fit under concealing portions of the armrest elements where desired. Still further the armrest itself or any or all of the components illustrated may be padded to provide added comfort. In general the components illustrated may be made of an injection moldable plastic material which may be assembled in any suitable conventional manner such as via fasteners adhesives welding and so forth. It should also be noted that the tambour door itself which according to an exemplary embodiment forms part of the armrest may provide a surface that serves as an armrest. For such configurations the material and construction of the tambour door may provide a comfortable e.g. cushioned surface on which the vehicle occupant may rest an arm. In many instances where the structure is provided between seats two different occupants on either side of the assembly may rest arms on the tambour door itself.

The support structures illustrated in may be generally thought of as an overall slide assembly that serves to support both the armrest and the tambour door. As illustrated in a stationary rail is fixedly secured to the support structure while a sliding rail see is engaged in the profile of the stationary rail and can move freely between the retracted position in which it is hidden at least partially within the stationary rail see and the extended position e.g. extended by a distance G in which the sliding rail extends from but is still supported by the stationary rail see . The sliding rail supports the armrest.

Tracks are then provided to support the tambour door. According to an exemplary embodiment a stationary track remains in place in the support structure and extends rearwardly from the slidable armrest into the support structure such at some non zero angle generally vertically with a smooth bend to accommodate the tambour door movement. A sliding or movable track is provided that is contiguous with the stationary track and allows for sliding support of the tambour door both in the retracted position of and the extended position of . This sliding or movable track is also supported by the sliding rail such that the tambour door is supported indirectly by the support structure through the intermediary of the sliding rail and stationary rail .

Also shown in these figures is the track structure. In particular the stationary track is shown as supported by the stationary rail . This stationary track has a smooth bend to guide the tambour door as it is urged rearwardly into the support structure e.g. the console . A sliding or movable track on the other hand is supported by the sliding rail and is advanced and retracted with the sliding rail to provide continuous support of the tambour door. Each of the track structures forms a channel in which the tambour door is received and supported.

According to an exemplary embodiment a ledge extends from the inner wall toward the outer wall. The sliding track interfaces with this ledge the sliding track itself being supported by the sliding rail . The ledge aids to support the upper extremity of the sliding track. Sliding track forms a channel that receives and supports the tambour door. According to an exemplary embodiment the tambour door comprises a series of ribs over which a cushioned finishing material is secured. The ribs terminate in bearings such as small balls that are received within the channel . As the tambour door is displaced then these bearings move fore and aft within the channel . It should also be noted that this entire structure may be slid fore and aft by movement of the sliding track with the sliding rail .

Various alternative support and sliding structures may be envisioned for the new armrest and tambour door arrangement contemplated. For example illustrate a split track design for allowing extension and retraction of the armrest while supporting the tambour door in both positions and positions between these . According to an exemplary embodiment the slide assembly again forms part of the support structure. The normally rearward stationary track again interfaces with the normally forward sliding or movable track . Note that the forward and rearward positions of these tracks could of course be reversed. A molded in side panel is included in the stationary track to facilitate mounting. Also note that the slide assembly has been removed for clarity as has the tambour door. According to an exemplary embodiment the stationary track has a groove in which the tambour door will ride when assembled. The groove aligns with a similar groove formed in the sliding or movable track . shows this configuration in the extended position. Here an extension finger can be seen that extends between the stationary track and the sliding or movable track . According to an exemplary embodiment the extension finger is integral with and molded as part of the stationary track although other arrangements and assemblies may be used. The extension finger includes surfaces that aid in supporting the tambour door for sliding between open and closed positions when the structure is in the extended position. Accordingly the sliding or movable track has support grooves that aid in supporting the extension finger . The finger itself has an inner groove that provides the desired support for the tambour door. This arrangement allows for a more rounded rear corner than the previous arrangement described above. The overall structure allow for extension by a distance G generally dependent upon the length of the tracks and the extension finger. shows the same structure again in the retracted position from an opposite side from that shown in and shows the same structure in the extended position from an opposite side from that shown in .

While only certain features of the invention have been illustrated and described herein many modifications and changes will occur to those skilled in the art. It is therefore to be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and changes as fall within the true spirit of the invention.

