---

title: Systems and methods for selectively migrating cells using electric fields
abstract: Systems and methods are provided for migrating cells implanted or endogenous in tissue. The system may include first and second delivery electrodes configured for insertion in tissue and a direct current (DC) power source operatively coupled to the first and second delivery electrodes. The system further may include a programmable controller operatively coupled to the DC power source, wherein the programmable controller is programmed to direct the DC power source to deliver an electric field between the first delivery electrode and the second delivery electrode at a stimulation to nonstimulation ratio sufficient to cause the cells to migrate within tissue selectively.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09044611&OS=09044611&RS=09044611
owner: The Regents of the University of California
number: 09044611
owner_city: Oakland
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130315
---
This invention was made with government support under contract number RB1 01417 awarded by the California Institute of Regenerative Medicine. The government has certain rights in the invention.

This application generally relates to cell migration within neural tissue or other types of tissues using electric fields.

Brain damage brain degenerative disease and brain disorders generally have a significant impact on functions of the body. Common causes of brain damage include lesions trauma and stroke. Difficulty arises in treating such damage disease and disorders because neural tissue within the brain cannot regenerate.

Most tissue in the human body originates from undifferentiated cells known as stem cells. These fundamental building blocks differentiate into specific target parenchymal tissue based on hormonal and other local signals. Scientific evidence suggests that stem cells injected into a target tissue will differentiate into a cell line specific to the host tissue. This capability is of particular interest in treating conditions involving organs such as the spinal cord heart and brain that cannot regenerate.

Electric fields have been used to guide migration of many types of cells in the laboratory for over a century. Application of electrical stimulation for human and animal health however has not been very successful. A major obstacle has been intrinsic detrimental effects associated with direct current electric stimulation which drastically outweigh the beneficial effects. The electric currents generate heat in the tissue change pH within the tissue and produce electrode products that are harmful for cells. Electrical stimulation is further complicated because human tissue is highly conductive allowing for large current flow which significantly increase the detrimental effects to stimulated tissue. As a result there are no commercially available devices for direct current brain stimulation at this time to regulate behaviors of neural stem cells and other types of cells in the brain.

In view of the drawbacks of previously known systems it would be desirable to provide systems and methods for safe and effective direct current brain stimulation.

The present invention overcomes the drawbacks of previously known systems by providing systems and methods for migrating cells in tissue e.g. neural tissue. The system may include first and second delivery electrodes configured for insertion in tissue and a direct current DC power source operatively coupled to the first and second delivery electrodes. The system further may include a programmable controller operatively coupled to the DC power source wherein the programmable controller is programmed to direct the DC power source to deliver an electric field between the first delivery electrode and the second delivery electrode at a stimulation to nonstimulation ratio sufficient to cause the cells e.g. implanted cells endogenous cells to migrate within tissue. Preferably the stimulation to nonstimulation ratio is in a range from 20 to 1 seconds to 1 to 1 seconds and fractions thereof and the electric field is between 5 mV mm to 500 mV mm so as to guide migration without harming the cells e.g. implanted and or endogenous stem cells including human neural stem cells hNSC and their progenies and surrounding tissue.

The system may include first and second monitoring electrodes configured for insertion in tissue and configured to monitor the electric field. The programmable controller may be configured to receive a signal indicative of the monitored electric field and to direct the DC power source to deliver an adjusted electric field based on the received signal. The first and second monitoring electrodes may be coupled to a voltmeter configured to measure voltage within tissue and or coupled to an ammeter configured to measure current within tissue. The system also may include first and second electroencephalogram EEG electrodes configured to be inserted in neural tissue or may be disposed on a surface of the scalp. The EEG electrodes are configured to monitor EEG in neural tissue.

In accordance with one aspect of the present invention the system includes measurement software configured to run on a computer operatively coupled to the programmable controller. The measurement software may be configured to monitor measurements from the programmable controller and to control the programmable controller.

The programmable controller may be configured to deliver the electric field at the stimulation to nonstimulation ratio selected to cause the cells to migrate within tissue while selected natural cells e.g. astrocytes neurons oligodendrocytes endothelial cells fibroblast cells epithelial cells or any combination thereof do not migrate or migrate minimally. The programmable controller may be programmed to direct the DC power source to deliver positive charge to the first delivery electrode to generate the electric field or to direct the DC power source to deliver positive charge to the second delivery electrode to generate the electric field or both. In that regard the programmable controller may be programmed to direct the DC power source to deliver the electric field such that the stem cells migrate toward the first delivery electrode or the second delivery electrode or both. In addition the programmable controller may be programmed to direct the DC power source to deliver the electric field in a pulsed monophasic or asymmetric biphasic form.

In accordance with yet another aspect of the present invention a method for migrating cells using an electric field is provided. The method may include inserting first and second delivery electrodes in tissue e.g. neural tissue the first and second delivery electrodes operatively coupled to a direct current DC power source and delivering an electric field between the first delivery electrode and the second delivery electrode via the DC power source at a stimulation to nonstimulation ratio sufficient to cause the cells to migrate within tissue. The stimulation to nonstimulation ratio may be selected to cause the cells to migrate within tissue while selected natural cells do not migrate or migrate minimally.

The method may include programming a programmable controller with a program having electric field parameters and the stimulation to nonstimulation ratio wherein delivering the electric field comprises delivering the electric field and the stimulation to nonstimulation ratio according to the program. The method further may include inserting first and second monitoring electrodes in tissue monitoring the electric field with the first and second monitoring electrodes receiving a signal indicative of the monitored electric field at the programmable controller and delivering an adjusted electric field based on the received signal.

In accordance with one aspect the cells include implanted stem cells and the method further includes implanting the stem cells at an implantation site e.g. in a rostral migration stream a subventricular zone or other parts of a brain. In addition delivering the electric field may cause the cells to migrate to an olfactory bulb a subventricular zone damaged brain tissue due to disease or injury brain lesions or any combination thereof.

The present invention provides systems and methods for mobilizing and guiding migration of cells for use in regenerative medicine and wound healing. The systems and methods may be used on tissue e.g. neural tissue to treat for example brain damage e.g. lesions trauma stroke brain degenerative disease e.g. Alzheimer s Parkinson s and or brain disorders e.g. epilepsy depression . Advantageously the present invention may be used to stimulate tissue to selectively migrate different cell types e.g. stem cells including neural stem cells and their progenies astrocytes neurons oligodendrocytes endothelial cells fibroblast cells epithelial cells by varying a wave form of an electric field EF and or a stimulation to nonstimulation ratio. Unlike nonselective stimulation devices where all or most types of cells in the treated tissue respond to stimulation resulting in unnecessary cell stimulation or even adverse effects on healing and repairing the present invention selectively guides desired types of cells to desirable sites within tissue for regeneration. The systems and methods described herein are expected to provide safe power conserving and effective means for stimulating tissue.

Referring now to an overview of cell migration system of the present invention is provided. In components of the system are not depicted to scale on either a relative or absolute basis. Cell migration system comprises a plurality of electrodes circuitry housing and software based measurement system . In the illustrated embodiment measurement system is installed and run on a conventional laptop computer used by a clinician or hospital. Circuitry housing may be coupled either wirelessly or using a cable to measurement system such that measurement system may receive and transmit data to circuitry housing .

Circuitry housing is configured to house the control circuitry as well as the power measurement communication and interface components as described in further detail below. Circuitry housing also preferably includes a data port such as a USB port that permits the controller to be coupled to measurement system at a hospital or physician s office. Alternatively circuitry housing may include a wireless chip e.g. conforming to the Bluetooth or IEEE 802.11 wireless standards thereby enabling the controller to communicate wirelessly with measurement system . As will be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art while circuitry housing illustratively includes one housing multiple housings may be used to house the control circuitry as well as one or more of the other components without departing from the scope of the present invention.

Measurement system is intended primarily for use by the clinician and comprises software configured to run on a conventional laptop or desktop computer that provides a user interface to components within circuitry housing . The software enables the clinician to configure monitor and control operation of the control circuitry and components within circuitry housing based on programming and or user input. In a preferred embodiment measurement system is programmed to allow a clinician to set initial parameters for controlling components within circuitry housing and for starting and stopping measurements and the components within circuitry housing are configured to automatically run after measurement begins without the need for clinician intervention. In one embodiment measurement system is configured to shut off the circuitry and or components and to override a feedback system implemented by the circuitry.

Illustratively cell migration system includes first and second delivery electrodes and first second third and fourth monitoring electrodes and and first and second electroencephalogram EEG electrodes and coupled to circuitry housing via leads and respectively. As will be readily apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art while illustrates use of 8 electrodes and 8 leads the present invention is not limited thereto. For example one three four or more delivery electrodes including delivery electrode arrays may be used one two three five six or more monitoring electrodes may be used one three four or more EEG electrodes may be used and a corresponding number of leads may be used.

First and second delivery electrodes and are configured for insertion in tissue e.g. neural tissue and may comprise a suitable material for stimulation electrodes such as a metal or carbon. First and second delivery electrodes and are operatively coupled e.g. via leads and to a direct current DC power source described in detail below. The DC power source is configured to delivery energy to first and second delivery electrodes and to generate an EF therebetween. DC power source may deliver a positive charge to first electrode such that first electrode acts as an anode and second electrode acts as a cathode or may deliver a positive charge to second electrode such that first electrode acts as a cathode and second electrode acts as an anode or both.

First second third and fourth monitoring electrodes and are configured for insertion in tissue e.g. neural tissue and may comprise a suitable material for monitoring electrodes such as a metal e.g. Ag AgCl or carbon. First second third and fourth monitoring electrodes and are operatively coupled e.g. via leads and to a voltmeter and or an ammeter described in detail below. First second third and fourth monitoring electrodes and are configured to monitor the electric field within the tissue including monitoring naturally occurring currents within the brain.

First and second EEG electrodes and may be configured for insertion in neural tissue and may comprise a suitable material for EEG electrodes such as a metal or carbon. First and second EEG electrodes and also may be configured to be disposed on a surface of the scalp using techniques known in the art. As will be readily understood by one of ordinary skill in the art many EEG electrodes e.g. over 50 may be disposed on the scalp surface without departing from the scope of the present invention. First and second EEG electrodes and are operatively coupled e.g. via leads and to an EEG unit described in detail below. First and second EEG electrodes and are configured to monitor EEG in neural tissue to analyze the effects of the EF.

Referring now to the distal region of an exemplary delivery electrode and monitoring electrode are shown. Delivery electrode is configured similar to delivery electrode described above with respect to . Delivery electrode is encased in insulation except at distal tip where delivery electrode is exposed so as to permit stimulation. Delivery tip optionally may include a beveled or chamfered shape as illustrated. Width W of delivery electrode may be selected as a suitable width for insertion within neural tissue. In a preferred embodiment width W is 280 m. Monitoring electrode is configured similar to monitoring electrode described above with respect to . Monitoring electrode is encased in insulation except at distal tip where monitoring electrode is exposed so as to permit electric monitoring.

Referring now to a schematic illustrating the internal circuitry and components of the embodiment of circuitry housing is described. Programmable controller may be electrically coupled to and configured to control DC power source voltmeter ammeter EEG unit user interface power unit and or communication unit .

Programmable controller may include one or more microprocessors controllers digital signal processors DSPs application specific integrated circuits ASICs field programmable gate arrays FPGAs or equivalent discrete or integrated digital or analog logic circuitry and the functions attributed to programmable controller herein may be embodied as software firmware hardware or any combination thereof. Programmable controller may include a volatile memory and nonvolatile memory e.g. EEPROM for storing data related to use of system such as user input treatment settings measured properties detected errors and the like. The memory may store program instructions that when executed by programmable controller cause programmable controller and system to provide the functionality ascribed to them herein. The memory of programmable controller also may store software downloaded thereon or implemented as a program product and stored on a tangible storage device such as machine readable medium e.g. tape compact disk CD digital versatile disk DVD blu ray disk BD external nonvolatile memory device USB cloud storage or other tangible storage medium. The software may include computer executable instructions for controlling system .

Programmable controller also may store in its memory programs directed to treatment of specific maladies such as brain damage brain degenerative disease and or brain disorders. For example the program may store electric field parameters and stimulation to nonstimulation ratios that may be selected by a user and or selected responsive to measured electrical properties within the brain e.g. current voltage electric field EEG based on an algorithm or look up table and or adjusted responsive to measured electrical properties within the brain based on an algorithm or look up table. Preselected programs stored in system may be loaded at the manufacturer or generated using a suitable software program on a conventional personal computer e.g. measurement system and then uploaded to memory associated with programmable controller via a data port e.g. USB port on circuitry housing or communication unit described below. The data port further may be used to retrieve and or store data on a tangible storage device related to use of system such as user input treatment settings measured properties detected errors and the like.

Programmable controller preferably also includes preprogrammed safety features e.g. that shutdown the device if the circuitry or components fail or become disconnected. Programmable controller also may include an error circuit that displays error codes via user interface or measurement system .

DC power source is operatively coupled e.g. via leads and to one or more delivery electrodes e.g. delivery electrodes and shown in . DC power source may be a suitable DC power source known in the art and is configured to deliver energy to the delivery electrodes such that that an EF is generated between the delivery electrodes. DC power source is operatively coupled to programmable controller . Programmable controller may be programmed to direct DC power source to deliver an electric field between the first delivery electrode and the second delivery electrode at a stimulation to nonstimulation ratio sufficient to cause cells e.g. stem cells which may be implanted including human neural stem cells hNSC and their progenies in tissue e.g. neural tissue to migrate within the tissue. To minimize injury to tissue the EF may be between 5 mV mm to 500 mV mm 30 mV mm to 400 mV mm 50 mV mm to 300 mV mm 50 mV mm to 200 mV mm or 30 mV mm to 100 mV mm and fractions thereof. For selectively migrating cells and for power conservation the stimulation to nonstimulation ratio may be in a range from 20 to 1 seconds to 1 to 1 seconds including ratios of 20 to 1 19 to 1 18 to 1 17 to 1 16 to 1 15 to 1 14 to 1 13 to 1 12 to 1 11 to 1 10 to 1 9 to 1 8 to 1 7 to 1 6 to 1 5 to 1 4 to 1 3 to 1 2 to 1 1.5 to 1 and 1 to 1 and fractions thereof.

In some embodiments programmable controller is configured to deliver the EF at the stimulation to nonstimulation ratio selected to cause the cells to migrate within tissue while selected natural cells e.g. astrocytes neurons oligodendrocytes endothelial cells fibroblast cells epithelial cells do not migrate or migrate minimally. Such selective stimulation is expected to cause desired types of cells e.g. stem cells including hNSC and their progenies to migrate to desirable sites within tissue e.g. site of damage or disease for regeneration while the selected natural cells do not migrate or migrate minimally to prevent adverse effects on healing and repairing. Programmable controller further may be programmed to direct DC power source to deliver the EF in a wave form such as a pulsed monophasic or asymmetric biphasic form. Such selective stimulation also is expected to cause desired types of cells to migrate to desirable sites within tissue while the selected natural cells do not migrate or migrate minimally.

Programmable controller may be programmed to direct DC power source to deliver a positive charge to the first delivery electrode to generate the EF and or to direct DC power source to deliver a positive charge to the second delivery electrode to generate the EF. In that regard programmable controller may be programmed to direct DC power source to deliver the EF such that the cells migrate toward the first delivery electrode and or the second delivery electrode . For example applicants have discovered that applying a positive charge to first delivery electrode causes implanted hNSC to migrate toward second delivery electrode acting as the cathode. Applying a positive charge to second delivery electrode causes implanted hNSC to migrate toward first delivery electrode acting as the cathode. Applicants have further discovered that different types of stem cells react differently to an applied EF. For example human embryonic stem cells hESC migrate toward the delivery electrode acting as the anode when an EF is applied.

In one embodiment monitoring electrodes e.g. monitoring electrodes and or shown in are configured to monitor the EF generated by the delivery electrodes. In such an embodiment programmable controller may be configured to receive a signal indicative of the monitored EF from the monitoring electrodes and to direct DC power source to deliver an adjusted EF e.g. adjusted EF strength adjusted EF wave form adjusted stimulation to nonstimulation ratio based on the received signal. Programmable controller may select the adjusted EF based on the received signal using for example user input an algorithm and or a lookup table stored in memory.

Voltmeter is operatively coupled e.g. via leads and or to one or more monitoring electrodes e.g. monitoring electrodes and or shown in . Voltmeter may include voltmeter components known in the art and is configured to measure voltage based on signals received from the monitoring electrodes. Voltmeter is operatively coupled to programmable controller . Programmable controller may be programmed to direct DC power source to deliver the adjusted EF based on the voltage measured by voltmeter .

Ammeter is operatively coupled e.g. via leads and or to one or more monitoring electrodes e.g. monitoring electrodes and or shown in . Ammeter may include ammeter components known in the art and is configured to measure current based on signals received from the monitoring electrodes. Ammeter is operatively coupled to programmable controller . Programmable controller may be programmed to direct DC power source to deliver the adjusted EF based on the current measured by ammeter .

EEG unit is operatively coupled e.g. via leads and or to one or more EEG electrodes e.g. EEG electrodes and or shown in . EEG unit may include electroencephalography components known in the art and is configured to measure voltage fluctuations resulting from ionic current flows within the neurons of the brain based on signals received from the EEG electrodes to monitor EEG. EEG unit is operatively coupled to programmable controller . Programmable controller may be programmed to direct DC power source to deliver the adjusted EF based on the EEG monitored by EEG unit .

The electronics within circuitry housing may be coupled to user interface so that programmable controller actuates system in accordance with input commands or selection of pre programmed therapy regimes input via user interface . User interface may be a display preferably an OLED or LCD touch screen display and may include hard buttons soft button and or a plurality of LEDs configured to provide visual confirmation to a user that the components of circuitry housing are powered. The display may display measured properties measured by for example monitoring and EEG electrodes such as measured EF measured voltage measured current and measured EEG and may display suitable messages such as error messages.

Power unit may be a port to allow circuitry housing to be plugged into a conventional wall socket e.g. via a cord with an AC to DC power converter for powering components within the housing and for charging DC power source . Alternatively power unit may be a suitable battery such as a replaceable battery or rechargeable battery and apparatus may include circuitry for charging the rechargeable battery and a detachable power cord.

Communication unit is configured to transmit information such as user input treatment settings measured properties e.g. measured EF measured voltage measured current and measured EEG detected errors and the like to a remote location such as measurement system . Communication unit is configured for wired and or wireless communication over a network such as the Internet or a telephone network using techniques known in the art. Advantageously communication unit permits a clinician to monitor use of system for example in embodiments where circuitry housing does not include a display.

In alternative embodiments one or more of the components supplied within circuitry housing may be omitted.

Referring back to electrodes are inserted within tissue e.g. neural tissue at . One or more delivery electrodes e.g. delivery electrodes and may be inserted within neural tissue as shown in . One or more monitoring electrodes e.g. monitoring electrodes and or also may be inserted in neural tissue. One or more EEG electrodes e.g. EEG electrodes and further may be inserted in neural tissue or may be disposed on a surface of the scalp. Electrodes may be inserted for example at the olfactory bulb the rostral migration stream the subventricular zone damaged brain tissue due to disease or injury and or brain lesions.

At monitoring electrodes and or EEG electrodes measure electrical properties such as voltage current and EEG within the neural tissue. At programmable controller selects an EF stimulation to nonstimulation ratio and or a wave form using a program based on the measured electrical properties and or user input at user interface and or measurement system . The stimulation to nonstimulation ratio and or the wave form may be selected to cause the cells to migrate within tissue while selected natural cells do not migrate or migrate minimally as described above.

At programmable controller directs DC power source to deliver energy to the delivery electrodes to generate an EF therebetween at the EF strength stimulation to nonstimulation ratio and or wave form according to the program. At the electrical properties such as EF voltage current and EEG are remeasured using the monitoring and or EEG electrodes and the voltmeter ammeter and or EEG unit. Signals indicative of the remeasured electrical properties are sent to programmable controller . At programmable controller determines an adjusted EF based on the signals and or user input and directs DC power source to deliver the adjusted EF via the delivery electrodes.

Advantageously the systems and methods described herein are expected to provide safer stimulation because for example use of a stimulation to nonstimulation ratio minimizes adverse effects on pH levels within neural tissue. Use of a stimulation to nonstimulation ratio also heats neural tissue less than continuous stimulation to minimize the chances of overheating and damaging neural tissue. The systems and methods further provide beneficial power conserving aspects because use of a stimulation to nonstimulation ratio reduces power consumption of the electronics including DC power source.

As will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art while the systems and methods of the present invention are generally described as guiding cells within neural tissue it is within the scope of the present invention to migrate cells e.g. stem cells and their progenies endothelial cells from small and large blood vessels fibroblast and smooth muscle cells from vasculature immune cells including neutrophils lymphocytes macrophage epithelial cells from cornea skin kidney lung trachea nerve cells including neurons neurablasts human neural stem cells mouse neural stem cells astrocytes and or glial cells anywhere within the body for treatment of trauma disease wound healing and the like. It is also within the scope of the present invention to induce directional tissue growth e.g. nerve growth and blood vessel formation angiogenesis .

Examples of the practice of the invention are set forth below. These examples shall not be considered to limit the invention whose scope is defined by the appended claims.

While various illustrative embodiments of the invention are described above it will be apparent to one skilled in the art that various changes and modifications may be made therein without departing from the invention. The appended claims are intended to cover all such changes and modifications that fall within the true scope of the apparatus and methods of the present invention.

