---

title: Mobile, portable, and interactive exercise apparatus
abstract: A mobile/portable multifunction and interactive exercise apparatus which may be usable as a mobile/portable striking apparatus and/or a mobile/portable speed bad apparatus, or both. The disclosed embodiments comprise conversion features and components, and utilize an attachment-free leverage application to create a temporary anchoring for the apparatus. Some disclosed embodiments further comprise an electronic interactive user features and components, and utilize impact sensors, a control unit, and a microprocessor for controlling the play of one or more interactive programs/games in which a participant may play against the control unit or against another participant.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09061194&OS=09061194&RS=09061194
owner: 
number: 09061194
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20130725
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 810 759 entitled Mobile Portable interactive apparatus filed on Apr. 11 2013 which is incorporated herein in its entirety.

The disclosure relates generally to exercise devices and more particularly to devices that are kicked or punched by the user as a form of exercise.

In contact or combative sports training striking devices such as punching bags heavy bags and punching pads are well known in the art. These bags are normally suspended overhead using chains secured to the ceiling or supported by a stand on the ground. Conventional striking bags suspended from the ceiling are difficult and laborious to adjust in height as well as being difficult to transport. Conventional striking bags supported by the ground are bulky to transport because of the added size of the base and are difficult to adjust in height. Additionally conventional striking bags supported by the ground are often poorly supported and unstable requiring a sparring partner to hold the bag in order to provide additional stability. Conventional heavy bags supported by the ground commonly include a large bulky base making the apparatus difficult to move about. It is therefore to the effective resolution of some of the aforementioned problems and shortcomings that some of the disclosed embodiments are directed.

A variety of kicking and punching aids currently exist in the art. These aids function primarily to provide a point of impact absorption for kicks and punches. A variety of configurations exist. Some are free standing with the aid of a supporting base. Others commonly referred to as heavy bags hang from a support structure. All are made for use in open areas and are typically large bulky and difficult to relocate or transport. Some examples are the Boone U.S. Pat. No. 3 757 306 the Morrison et al U.S. Pat. No. 4 207 087 the D Alto U.S. Pat. No. 5 437 590 the Allard et al U.S. Pat. No. 5 733 193 the Chen U.S. Pat. No. 5 863 278 the Chen U.S. Pat. No. 6 251 051 the Weber U.S. Pat. No. 6 790 167 the Ghim U.S. Pat. No. 7 278 957 the Sheedy U.S. Pat. No. 7 909 749 and the Jones et al U.S. Pat. No. 8 337 366. In light of such the various shortfalls of such exercise devices therefore a need exists for a new and improved striking apparatus.

It is an object of some of the disclosed embodiments to provide a mobile portable electronic interactive striking apparatus that comprises a body unit multiple striking surfaces various vertical adjustment methods and multiple attachment means which enables the user to easily change convert the apparatus between the various embodiments adjust the weight of the striking bag or the height of the striking apparatus.

It is also an object of some of the disclosed embodiments to provide an electronic interactive program game that controls the interaction between participants or which can be played against the control unit itself.

It is another object of the disclosed embodiments to provide an interactive program game that tests the aural and visual memory of a participant against the control unit.

It is a further object of the disclosed embodiments to provide a striking apparatus type interactive program game device that provides an automatic sequence of events that must be repeated by a participant.

It is yet another object of the disclosed embodiments to provide a microprocessor controlled interactive program game that controls the progress of an interactive program game played between two participants.

It is yet another object of the disclosed embodiments to provide a microprocessor controlled interactive program game that can be programmed to play a variety of interactive program games.

In accordance with a preferred embodiment of the invention there is provided a striking apparatus comprising a plurality of impact sensors each associated with a strike trigger in the form of sound or light or both. The device utilizes a microprocessor to generate a sequence of lights and sounds each uniquely associated with one of the impact sensor switches on the keyboard. The microprocessor is programmed to generate a random sequence of sound or lights or both which must be repeated by a participant by striking the proper impact sensors. If the participant correctly repeats the sequence the control unit adds another entry to the sequence and plays the lengthened sequence which must again be repeated by the participant. The process is repeated to provide an ever lengthening sequence until the participant makes an error or if desired until the sequence reaches a predetermined length. The control unit then indicates whether the control unit or the participant has won and may be programmed to indicate the longest sequence successfully repeated. Also the sound generation or the light generation may be suppressed to provide an interactive program game playable in response to sound or light triggered sequences only. Also controls may be provided for increasing the speed of the interactive program game either manually or automatically as the interactive program game progresses.

In an alternative embodiment the control unit can be used to control the interaction of two participants. In such an embodiment one of the participants generates a first sequence that must be repeated by the other who adds a subsequent event to the sequence. As in the case of the above described embodiment the control unit keeps track of the longest sequence successfully repeated and declares a winner when one of the participants makes an error. Also as in the case of the above embodiment the sequence may take the form of a sound triggered sequence light sequence or combination of a sound and light sequence.

Yet another embodiment of the invention is a sensor unit for a striking apparatus including an accelerometer for measuring a strike and a signal processor communicatively connected to the accelerometer for discerning the strike and calculating values relative to a peak acceleration direction total work and total energy for the strike.

Another embodiment of the invention is a method of varying an operation of a striking apparatus to accommodate input of a user of the striking apparatus responsive to direction of the striking apparatus. The method includes setting a maximum duration for the user input prompting the user input timing for the maximum duration detecting if the user input is received returning to the step of prompting upon receipt of the user input if prior to expiration of the maximum duration and returning to the step of prompting upon expiration of the maximum duration if the user input is not received.

Some embodiments disclosed herein are portable exercise apparatuses comprising a speed bag assembly. The speed bag assembly further comprises a support arm having a first end and a second end a speed bag platform connected to the first end of the support arm a speed bag connected to the speed bag platform and a speed bag column having a top end and a bottom end. In an embodiment the second end of the support arm is adjustably connected to the top end of the speed bag column. These embodiments further comprises a striking pad assembly having a striking pad having a top surface a bottom surface a non striking surface a central bore extending between the top surface and the bottom surface and a longitudinal indentation extending between the top surface and the bottom surface and centrally along the non striking surface. The longitudinal indentation is configured to conform against angled walls of a firm structure. In one embodiment the bore comprise an inward extending protrusion. The striking pad assembly further comprises a striking pad column having a top end and a bottom end. In one embodiment the striking pad column further comprises a plurality of outward extending protrusions. The outward extending protrusions of the striking pad column are configured to engage the inward extending protrusion of the bore of the striking pad. In one embodiment the top end of the striking pad column can slide into the bottom end of the speed bag column. These embodiments further comprise a support column having a top end a bottom end and a plurality of apertures. The top end of the support column is connected to the bottom end of the striking pad column. There is further a base unit having a plurality of legs and a hollow coupler for receiving the bottom end of the support column in a manner as to allow the user to use the combination of the base unit and the support column to adjust the height of the exercise apparatus as desired. The legs of the base unit are configured to optimally press the exercise apparatus against the angled walls of the firm structure e.g. a wall corner or angled walls of a heavy piece of furniture as the sole means of stabilization. The hollow coupler comprises an aperture used to connect the base unit to the support column through a selective aperture from the support column s plurality of apertures.

In other embodiments the portable exercise apparatus further comprises means for converting the striking pad assembly to a heavy striking bag. In yet other embodiments the portable exercise apparatus further comprises means for converting the portable exercise apparatus to a hand held striking pad.

Some preferred portable exercise apparatuses comprise a speed bag assembly with a support arm a speed bag platform a speed bag connected to the speed bag platform and a speed bag column that can be adjustably connected to the support arm. These embodiments further comprise a striking pad assembly having a striking pad with a striking surface a non striking surface a top surface a bottom surface a central bore extending between the top surface and the bottom surface and a longitudinal indentation extending between the top surface and the bottom surface and centrally along the non striking surface. The longitudinal indentation is designed to flexibly conform against angled walls of a firm structure. In one embodiment the central bore of the striking pad comprises an inward extending protrusion. The embodiments further comprise a striking pad column. In one embodiment the striking pad column has several outward extending protrusions. The outward extending protrusions of the striking pad column are configured to engage the inward extending protrusion of the bore of the striking pad. In one embodiment the top end of the striking pad column slides into the bottom end of the speed bag column whereto it is secures. These preferred embodiment also comprise an interactive program unit which in turn comprises a plurality of impact sensors operatively connected to the striking surface of the striking pad a plurality of strike triggers each of which uniquely associated with a respective impact sensor from the plurality of impact sensors a memory for storing a plurality of interactive exercise programs a control unit having a plurality of switches used to select an interactive exercise program from the plurality of interactive exercise programs and a microprocessor operatively connected between the impact sensors the strike triggers and the control unit to facilitate the selected interactive exercise program. These embodiments further comprise a support column having a top end a bottom end and a plurality of apertures. The top end of the support column is connected to the bottom end of the striking pad column. These preferred embodiments also comprise a base unit having a plurality of legs and a hollow coupler for receiving the bottom end of the support column in a manner as to allow the user to use the combination of the base unit and the support column to adjust the height of the exercise apparatus as desired. The legs of the base unit are configured to optimally press the exercise apparatus against the angled walls of the firm structure e.g. a wall corner or angled walls of a heavy piece of furniture as the sole means of stabilization. The hollow coupler comprises an aperture used to connect the base unit to the support column through a selective aperture from the support column s plurality of apertures.

Other preferred portable exercise apparatuses comprise a speed bag assembly having a support arm a speed bag platform a speed bag connected to the speed bag platform and a speed bag column that can be adjustably connected to the support arm. These embodiments further comprise a striking pad assembly having a striking pad with a striking surface a non striking surface a top surface a bottom surface a central bore extending between the top surface and the bottom surface and a longitudinal indentation extending between the top surface and the bottom surface and centrally along the non striking surface. The longitudinal indentation is designed to flexibly conform against angled walls of a firm structure. In one embodiment the central bore of the striking pad comprises an inward extending protrusion. The embodiments further comprise a striking pad column. In one embodiment the striking pad column has several outward extending protrusions. The outward extending protrusions of the striking pad column are configured to engage the inward extending protrusion of the bore of the striking pad. In one embodiment the top end of the striking pad column slides into the bottom end of the speed bag column whereto it is secures. Such preferred embodiments further comprise an interactive program unit which in turn comprises a first set of impact sensors operatively connected to the striking surface of the striking pad a second set of impact sensors operatively connected to the speed bag a first set of strike triggers each of which uniquely associated with a respective impact sensor from the first set of impact sensors a second set of strike triggers each of which uniquely associated with a respective impact sensor from the second set of impact sensors a memory for storing a plurality of interactive exercise programs a control unit having a plurality of switches used to select an interactive exercise program from the plurality of interactive exercise programs a microprocessor operatively connected between the first and second sets of impact sensors the first and second sets of strike triggers and the control unit to facilitate the selected interactive exercise program. These embodiments further comprise a support column and a base unit having a plurality of legs and a hollow coupler for receiving the bottom end of the support column in a manner as to allow the user to use the combination of the base unit and the support column to adjust the height of the exercise apparatus as desired. The legs of the base unit are configured to optimally press the exercise apparatus against the angled walls of the firm structure e.g. a wall corner or angled walls of a heavy piece of furniture as the sole means of stabilization. The hollow coupler comprises an aperture used to connect the base unit to the support column through a selective aperture from the support column s plurality of apertures.

In yet other embodiments the interactive program unit further comprises a speaker connected to the microprocessor. Each strike trigger from the plurality of strike triggers is a distinct audio cue uniquely associated with the respective impact sensor. In these embodiments the microprocessor is configured to receive a signal from the control unit that identifies the selected interactive exercise program from the plurality of interactive exercise programs stored on the memory. In these embodiments the microprocessor is further configured to utilize the speaker to sound the distinct audio cues in a predetermined sequence according to the selected interactive exercise program. In other embodiments the interactive program unit further comprises a multi color light emitting means connected to the microprocessor and wherein each strike trigger from the plurality of strike triggers is a distinct visual cue uniquely associated with the respective impact sensor. In these embodiments the microprocessor is configured to receive a signal from the control unit that identifies the selected interactive exercise program from the plurality of interactive exercise programs stored on the memory and is further configured to utilize the multi color light emitting means to emit the distinct visual cues in a predetermined sequence according to the selected interactive exercise program. In yet other embodiments the interactive program unit further comprises a speaker connected to the microprocessor and a multi color light emitting means connected to the microprocessor. In these embodiments each strike trigger from the plurality of strike triggers is a distinct audio cue uniquely associated with the respective impact sensor and or a distinct visual cue uniquely associated with the respective impact sensor. In these embodiments the microprocessor is configured to receive a signal from the control unit that identifies the selected interactive exercise program from the plurality of interactive exercise programs stored on the memory and to utilize the speaker and the multi color light emitting means to emit a predetermined combination of the distinct audio cues and or distinct visual cues in a predetermined sequence according to the selected interactive exercise program.

As discussed in more detail below in the context of the disclosed structures some embodiments further comprise means for selecting an error criteria for the selected interactive exercise program and means for determining whether the error criteria has been met. In such embodiments the microprocessor is further configured to utilize the speaker and or the multi color light emitting device to indicate that the error criteria has been met. Other embodiment further comprise means for measuring punch strength means for measuring response time and means for communicating the measured punch strength and response time to the user.

Many other features and embodiments disclosed herein will be apparent from the accompanying drawings and from the following detailed description. One of ordinary skill in the art would recognize that the disclosed embodiments including the embodiments illustrated in the drawings are exemplary only and as such do not operate to limit the scope of the disclosed invention.

A support unit includes a coupler and column to be secured vertically on top of the base via hinge . The coupler includes an aperture formed therein for threading a fastener or a pin such as a column provided on the lower portion thereof which includes legs attached therein secured at their lower end to weighted feet pads . The support unit formed such that it works in conjunction with the base to create pull on the striking apparatus center of gravity backwards causing its load to press into any support structure. The base includes a column which includes legs attached therein secured at their lower end to weighted feet pads .

A column is to be secured vertically on top of the support unit via a coupler such as by a stud provided on the lower portion of the column . The column has a top coupler portion used to secure the column to the speed bag column . The stud includes an aperture formed therein for threading a fastener or a pin . The column includes one or more longitudinal channels formed therein and having one or more lock slots communicating with the respective channels . A striking pad is formed to include angled walls which allow it to conform to inner and outer angled wall corners or any other firm structure and includes a bore formed therein for receiving the column and includes one or more projections extended inward of the bore thereof for engaging into the channels and or the lock slots of the column and for setting the striking pad to various heights.

Referring to a striking apparatus in accordance with some of the disclosed embodiments comprises a heavy bag conversion application which includes a heavy bag including a padded inner liner that is formed such that it couples with the angles of the striking pad to form the completed circular striking surface that is indicative of a conventional hanging heavy punching bag. The heavy bag includes hanging attachments for hanging the bag via suitable means and a zipper for securing all necessary components within the heavy bag via its top enclosure .

A striking pad is inserted into the heavy bag with the open end of its bore facing upward. The angles of the striking pad are then aligned with the angles of the inner liner such that the angled walls of the inner liner are aligned with the angled walls of the striking pad to form a completed circle.

A bag is included for adjusting the weight of the heavy bag assembly through the receiving of fluids such as water any suitable liquid or other particulate materials such as sand gravel coated or uncoated metallic shot and the like. The fluids are received through the mouth of the bag . A cap is detachably secured onto the mouth of the bag for confining the fluids within the bag . The bag should be empty when inserted into the bore of the striking pad after which it can be filled to the desired weight with the desired suitable material.

Referring to in conjunction with a striking apparatus in accordance with some of the disclosed embodiments comprises a hand held application which includes a base support with a hole at its center formed therein for threading the shaft of the anchoring post . A striking pad is used with the open end of its bore facing upward to receive the center cushion the hole of the striking pad is formed therein for threading the shaft of the anchoring post as well as to allow air flow. A center cushion is preferably made of light weight spongy or rubber materials preferably stiffer and denser than all materials used to make the striking pad for striking and support purposes and is formed to include a bore at its center which is formed therein for threading the shaft of the anchoring post and to align with the hole of the striking pad the center cushion is shorter in length than the bore of the striking pad but the diameter of the center cushion is formed such that it completely fills the bore of the striking pad . The center cushion is seated inside of the barrel of the striking pad via its bore . An anchoring post includes a top with two equally distanced opposing peripheral protrusions wherein each protrusion contains an aperture formed therein for threading the links of the striking pad . The length of the bottom half of the top fills in the remaining length in the barrel that was left unfilled by the center cushion that is seated inside of the barrel . The diameter of the bottom half of the top is formed such that it completely fills the bore of the striking pad . The shaft extends downward from the center of the bottom half and contains two apertures near its end. The aperture is formed therein for threading a fastener or a pin and aperture is formed therein for threading a fastener or a clasp . The shaft of the anchoring post is to be threaded through the bore of the center cushion and the hole of the striking pad such that bottom half of the top is seated firmly atop of the center cushion within the bore of the barrel of the striking pad . The links are to be threaded through their respective aperture of the protrusion of the anchoring post which will allow the top of the anchoring post to fit flush against all related parts of the handheld application . As illustrated the support base can be connected by threading the hole of the support base with the exposed end of the shaft of the anchoring post such that a fastener or pin can be inserted through the aperture of the shaft thus locking the support base to the striking pad and securing the anchoring post in place.

As illustrated in adjustable straps and and a body brace are used to secure the handheld application to the user which may be the trainer as used in this paragraph. Adjustable straps are secured to their respective link of the striking pad of the hand held application via a swiveling clasp located at either end of each adjustable strap . As illustrated adjustable strap is secured to aperture of the anchoring post of the handheld application . Each remaining unsecured swiveling clasp of the adjustable straps can now be secured to its respective anchoring point of the body brace . The unsecured end of adjustable strap can be secured via its swiveling clasp to anchoring point of the body brace . The body brace may be worn by the user via its shoulder supports and . The shoulder support fits over the left shoulder of the user while shoulder support fits over the user s right shoulder. The body brace will rest against the front of the users and on both shoulders which helps to balance the weight although extremely light of the handheld application evenly throughout the body of the user such that the user may move freely about with the handheld application using it as a moving target or opposing training aid from which the user will be able to see over the top of to observe and critique the technique of the person striking the handheld application .

Several interactive program games may be played by the control unit illustrated in . In one embodiment such interactive program games are selected by appropriately positioning the slide switch . The microprocessor which is described in more detail below may be programmed to play various program games.

In one embodiment upon selection of the start of interactive program game switch the microprocessor will cause one of multiple notes contained in its memory to be sounded. In addition one of the multiple indicator lights associated with a particular one of the impact sensors and will be illuminated. The participating player must now depress the one of the impact sensors and associated with the sound sounded as indicated by the illumination of its associated lamp. In this embodiment if the participant strikes the correct one of the impact sensors and the machine repeats the previous sound and adds a new sound and associated light to the sequence. So long as the participant strikes the appropriate impact sensor the machine continues to repeat the previous sequence each time adding one more sound to the sequence. At the first occurrence of an erroneous impact sensors entry the microprocessor causes a distinctive error sound. This concludes the interactive program game sequence. In another embodiment the microprocessor may be programmed to generate a second distinctive win signal when the sequence reaches a predetermined length. For example the length of such a sequence may be selected to be eight fourteen or twenty sounds by appropriately positioning the switch . Finally the control unit may be programmed to increase the speed of the sequence as the interactive program game is played to make the interactive program game more challenging. In some embodiments after the conclusion of the interactive program game sequence the participant has the option of starting a new interactive program game by depressing the push button switch or he can review the previously keyed in sound sequence by pushing the last interactive program game review pushbutton . Upon such a command the microprocessor will automatically sound out the entire sequence of sounds that had been keyed in up to the point at which the keying error was made. The longest sequence played to date can be reviewed by depressing the push button switch .

In another embodiment the selected interactive game involves two participants who take turns alternately repeating the previous sequence and adding another sound to the sequence. In this embodiment the control unit is programmed to keep track of the last sequence and to sound the error signal whenever one of the participants makes an error. The longest sound sequence played by the participants during any continuous series of interactive program games may be stored and the push button switch may be used to recall this sequence. In this manner it is possible for the winner of an interactive program game to compare his performance with the longest sound sequence in the memory.

In yet another embodiment the interactive program game involves a participant that must respond within a predetermined time interval for example before the sound ends or before its associated light extinguishes. If the player reacts too slowly or makes an error the interactive program game ends.

In another embodiment the control unit is programmed to remember not only the sequence of impact sensor entries but also to remember the length of time that each impact sensor is struck and the time interval between such occurrences. Thus the control unit can be programmed to play multiple sounds. If these multiple sounds are properly selected to correspond to the sounds formed in a bugle then most familiar bugle calls could be keyed in the machine.

In yet another embodiment the interactive program game is designed to be played by more than one player. For example two players may each be assigned two impact sensors or multiple players may each be assigned a single impact sensor. The interactive program game may be played in a manner similar to that of Interactive program game 1 with the machine generating an ever lengthening sequence of sounds which must be repeated by the players with each player being responsible for repeating his assigned sound or sounds as they occur in the sequence. In this embodiment whenever a player responsible for a sound responds incorrectly by for example depressing the wrong impact sensors or not responding at all that sound is taken out of the sequence and play continues among the remaining players. Also the push button assigned to the participant making the error is caused to blink to indicate which player has made the error. The machine then continues building ever lengthening sequences based on the remaining sounds. When another error occurs the player responsible for that sound is out and the interactive program game continues with sequences containing only the remaining sounds until only one player is left.

The interactive program games embodied in the above embodiments have been given by way of example only. One of ordinary skill in the art would recognize that the number of possible interactive program games is limited only by the capability of the microprocessor within the device and the ingenuity of the programmer.

Referring now to the device utilizes a microprocessor having an input output section connecting the manually operable switches and to a computing device having an arithmetic logic unit a read only memory and a random access memory . The arithmetic logic unit processes the inputs received from the various input devices in accordance with the interactive program game selected from the read only memory by the selector switch and serves to operate a loud speaker and multiple light indicators and each associated with a respective one of the impact sensors and in accordance with the rules of the interactive program game selected. Thus when one of the interactive program games stored in the read only memory is selected by the switch the arithmetic logic unit operates on the inputs from the impact sensors and to perform the necessary arithmetic logic steps and to store the necessary data such as the length of the last sequence into the random access memory . The arithmetic logic unit also serves to provide the necessary responses to the participant by appropriately lighting up the lights and and sounding the appropriate tone or error signal through the loud speaker .

As illustrated in the embodiment of the device can be implemented utilizing a single chip large scale integrated circuit microprocessor as the main computing device. In one embodiment the microprocessor is A TMS1000 single chip microprocessor manufactured by TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INC. which contains the input output circuitry and the computing device illustrated in . Driver transistors and serving as part of the input output circuitry are driven by outputs of the microprocessor and serve to drive the lights and and the loud speaker . A time delay circuit comprising a capacitor and a diode serve to reset and initiate the operation of the microprocessor each time the power is turned on. A timing circuit comprising a capacitor and a resistor controls the operation of the internal clock of the microprocessor .

The microprocessor monitors the state of the impact sensor keys and the control switches and and the interactive program game selector switch by sequentially energizing its outputs R R while monitoring its inputs K K K and K. Thus when the output R is energized the device can determine the position of the switch by determining which of its inputs K K or K is energized. Similarly the microprocessor R can determine which of the impact sensor keys and is energized by monitoring the multiple inputs K K K and K during the time that the output R is energized. In a similar manner the device monitors the inputs K K and K during the time that the output R is energized to determine which if any of the switches and is energized. The outputs R R are utilized to drive the driving transistors and which in turn drive the indicator lights and and the loud speaker .

The microprocessor is readily programmed in a manner described in the TMS series data manual published in December 1975 by TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INC. the relevant microprocessor programming sections of which are incorporated herein in their entirety entirety to perform the functions necessary to play the desired interactive program games. Flow charts illustrating the programming of the microprocessor are illustrated in .

As illustrated in in step the start switch is depressed in step the memory of the microprocessor is cleared and in step the random number count of microprocessor is incremented . A determination is made whether any of the impact sensor keys or are struck. In step if not the random number count is continuously incremented. If one of the impact sensors is struck a determination is made to determine which of the impact sensor keys has been struck. In step if the start key has been depressed in step the microprocessor reads the position of the interactive program game selecting switch and selects the stored interactive program game corresponding to that position. If the key in step requesting the repeat of the last sequence or in step the key requesting the recall of the longest sequence is depressed the appropriate repeat flag in step or recall flag in step is set. Also in step the tone flag is set and the counters are initialized.

As illustrated in when the start switch is depressed causing the appropriate interactive program game to be stored if in step the tone flag is set the setting of the tone flag causes in step particular tone type to be fetched . A determination is then made as to whether the lamp associated with that tone type is on. In step if the lamp is on the tone is emitted otherwise in step the lamp is first turned on and in step the tone is emitted. After the tone has been emitted in step or the lamp is turned off and in step the tone count is incremented. In step the done status is verified. If in step the repeat flag is not set which is normally the case during the time that an interactive program game is being played in step the repeat flag is reset or if in step recall flag is not set which is normally the case during the time that an interactive program game is being played in step the recall flag is reset. In step the tone flag is reset after which if in step the tone flag is not set in step the counters is initialized. If the entry is proper and the interactive program game is not otherwise terminated the tone flag is again set and the next tone is sequence generated until an error occurs.

Another determination is made in step to determine whether an impact sensor key is struck left branch of . In step the start key is triggered. In step the game key status is checked. In step the key selection is processed as indicated by game rules. Based on this determination in step either an error tone in step or a tone in step corresponding to the impact sensor key is sounded. After which in step the key down status is checked. If the entry is proper and the interactive program game is not otherwise terminated the tone flag is again set and the next tone is sequence generated until an error occurs.

 . The start key is triggered If one of the impact sensor keys is struck a determination is made to determine in step whether the proper entry as dictated by the interactive program game rules has been struck. Based on this determination in step either an error tone or a tone corresponding to the impact sensor key is sounded. At the same time in step if the entry is proper the tone flag is set in step if not proper in step an end of interactive program game tone is sounded and in step a store tone series determination is made and in step tone series stored. If the entry is proper and the interactive program game is not otherwise terminated the tone flag is again set and the next tone is sequence generated until an error occurs.

Obviously many modifications and variations of the disclosed embodiments are possible in light of the above teachings. Thus it is to be understood that within the scope of the appended claims the invention may be practiced otherwise than as specifically described above.

Referring to an exemplary control unit such as may be employed in the system includes a controller communicatively connected to one or more of the impact sensors or . The controller may be implemented in hardware circuit s software program s or combinations of these. An example of the controller is a processor or other control circuit or pluralities or combinations of these operating a software program stored in a computer readable non transitory memory. The controller is communicatively connected to an output apparatus that is interpretable to the user for example a speaker not shown in Figures . Memory and data storage are also connected to the controller if a microprocessor or other circuit for operation and store of the software program.

Referring to in conjunction with a method of training such as may be performed by the system of when supplied with power commences with a step of touch impact to the pad . In certain embodiments the step is instigated through tap or touch of the pad as compared to a strike to the pad .

In a step the touch to the pad in the step is detected by the impact sensors or for the pad . The control unit is signaled in a step that the impact sensors or detected the touch to the pad . Upon the step the control unit in a step controls an output device of the system for example a speaker to provide an audible selection menu not shown in Figures .

An item of the selection menu is chosen by user input to the controller for example touch of the pad or a select one or more impact sensors or of the pad and the pad touch for the item selected is detected in a step . Examples of possible items which may be selected from the menu may include Fighting or Training but are not limited to these and may include others or alternatives such as Coaching not shown in Figures or others. Once the item selection is detected in the step the control unit processes and commences a selected routine e.g. fighting training or other sequence per the selected menu item. Examples of possible routines include for example fighting sequences training sequences or others such as coaching sequences. Each routine is for example hardware logic circuits a software routine stored in a computer readable non transitory memory or combinations of these processed by the control unit .

If Fighting is selected fighting sequences are commenced in a step . In the step the control unit processes a fight module shown in as software stored in the data storage but which can alternately be a software routine stored in another computer readable non transitory memory hardware logic circuits and or combinations . The fight module is processed in the step by the control unit to a speaker not shown in figures . If the pad is struck the impact sensors or for the pad detects the punch or strike in a step and the control unit is signaled of the detection. In a step the control unit registers one or more indicators of the strike or punch in response to the step .

The method then proceeds with continued processing of the fight module by the control unit and output of additional fight sequences as shown by arrow in or otherwise the fight sequences are ended in a step . The fight sequences are ended in the step either upon completed processing of the fight module by the control unit such as at the end of a programmed routine of the module after fight sequences are output or on receipt of an stop signal input to the control unit for example by an off or end mechanism of the system such as through activation by a user of the system of an off switch entry of a key striking in a particular sequence to the one or more pad or other similar mechanism. Once processing of the fight module is ended in the step the control unit reports a result in a step .

The result reported in the step by the control unit can be related via a speaker not shown in figures . This can provide information of statistics of registered punch responses measures of strike count accuracy and force and or other measures or information such as information related to outcomes of the fighting sequences comparisons to earlier fighting results or others. Further in the reporting step the control unit can store the reported information and or additionally process the result together with prior results of usage of the system to yield a statistical comparison record which may but need not necessarily be stored by the control unit . In certain embodiments the control unit in the reporting step may label the result or a record of it with a tag such as an identifier of the particular user of the system a time or date indicator of that use or other indicators for viewing or comparison at later time or place.

If rather than Fighting Training is selected in the step training sequences are commenced in the step . In the step the control unit processes a train module shown in as software stored in the data storage but which can alternately be a software routine stored in another computer readable non transitory memory hardware logic circuits and or combinations . The train module is processed in the step by the control unit to output a depiction of the one or more pad for audio results on speaker not shown in figures The output of the control unit on processing of the train module includes for example data sets or files suitable for displaying and or audibly depicting the one or more pad and a prescribed selection of sequential ones of the pad . As each pad is selected in sequence the pad may subsequently be struck as training. Speed of sequential selection of the one or more pad is controlled by the control unit according to the processed train module . If any pad is struck the impact sensors or for the pad detects the strike in a step and the control unit is signaled of the detection. In a step the control unit stores one or more indicators of the strike in response to the step .

The method then proceeds with continued processing of the train module by the control unit and output of additional train sequences as shown by arrow in or otherwise the train sequences are ended in a step . The train sequences are ended in the step either upon completed processing of the train module by the control unit such as at the end of a programmed routine of the module after train sequences are output or on receipt of an stop signal input to the control unit for example by an off or end mechanism of the system such as through activation by a user of the system of an off switch entry of a key striking in a particular sequence to the one or more pad or other similar mechanism. Once processing of the train module is ended in the step the control unit reports a result of the steps of Training in a step .

As with the result reported in the step by the control unit on end of processing of the fight module the result can be listened to via audio of the speaker . These results can provide information such as with Fighting of statistics of registered punch strike responses measures of strike punch count accuracy and force and or other measures or information such as information related to outcomes of the fighting sequences comparisons to earlier fighting results or others. Further in the reporting step the control unit can store the reported information and or additionally process the result together with prior results of usage of the system to yield a statistical comparison record which may but need not necessarily be stored by the control unit . The control unit in the reporting step may also label the result or a record of it with a tag in certain embodiments such as an identifier of the particular user of the system a time or date indicator of that use or other indicators for reviewing or comparison at later time or place.

In effect Fighting occurs against the output avatar fighter. In the fight sequences the avatar fighter moves punches strikes and otherwise responds albeit through lights within impact sensors or to a system user s strikes. Training however occurs through pad selection of the system and the user s strike of selected pad. Varied levels of competency of the user may be selected by the user or the system such as Beginner Intermediate Advanced Expert or others through menu items displayed via output of the control unit on selection for Fighting or Training or at other point in use of the system . Moreover real time results of the user s strike actions may be displayed via output of the control unit in either scenario. Real time results may include for example strike Accuracy Count Power and Points Scored. In certain embodiments the control unit includes modules for processing heart rate and or calories used by the user of the system during Fighting or Training . Various embodiments can provide for particular regimen of Rounds or Bouts in follow up sequence such as would be encountered by the system user in practice or training for general exercise through striking. Other embodiments can allow for customization of the training sequences such as increase or decrease of Rounds time of Rounds or Bouts different sequences or times according to day of the week or period adjustment of output volume selection among specific Rounds or variation of sequences per Round and custom routines operable by the control unit in the system.

As illustrated in the embodiment of a system for detecting contact such as a strike includes an accelerometer unit communicatively connected to an aggregator unit . The accelerometer unit includes an accelerometer communicatively connected to a signal processor . The aggregator unit includes an aggregator device which includes or is communicatively connected to a processor not shown in detail .

In some embodiments the accelerometer is for example a 3 axis accelerometer for detecting three dimensions of movement e.g. X Y and Z axes respectively . In other embodiments the accelerometer is alternately a single axis or multi axis of other number of dimensions and the 3 axis accelerometer is merely an example for purposes of discussion. The signal processor is any of a wide variety of processor device such as a microcontroller digital signal processor or other processor capable of processing measurements in the three or other number of dimensions made by the accelerometer . The accelerometer unit can be unitized such as a single printed circuit board including the accelerometer and the signal processor or may be implemented in separate units other segregation of components or any combination of units features of units or components.

The aggregator device of the aggregator unit includes memory and a processor not shown in detail . The aggregator device is for example a microcontroller chip unit including a processor random access memory read only memory clock and input output control unit. Although the aggregator device can be unitized as a single chip or unit it may alternately be implemented in communicatively connected separate components units of various components or combinations.

In operation of some embodiments the accelerometer measures axial acceleration in three dimensions X Y and Z in the example. Measurements are sampled at successive time intervals for example at approximately 1 millisecond ms intervals or as otherwise desired by design or for the application. Each measurement made by the accelerometer includes three axis values in the example of the 3 axis accelerometer and this measurement is communicated to the signal processor .

In some embodiments if measurement by the accelerometer exceeds a minimum threshold sufficient to indicate a strike moving the accelerometer the signal processor commences calculating the root mean square of the three axis values for each measurement of the accelerometer to obtain a vector sum magnitude. The signal processor continues this calculating with each next measurement of the accelerometer received by the signal processor . As the signal processor receives measurements and performs root mean square calculations the signal processor also commences integrating the vector sum magnitude. The result of integrating is reflects the merit or force of movement acceleration for example such as may be caused by the strike because relative to magnitude and duration of acceleration measured by the accelerometer . The signal processor also determines one of the axes measured as dominant for the movement acceleration such as the dominant axial direction of the strike. For the dominant axis so determined the signal processor integrates the result of integration of the vector sum magnitude to calculate a velocity for the dominant axis. The signal processor continues the calculating and integrating of measurements from the accelerometer until the dominant axis velocity integral drops below a lower threshold value.

In some embodiments when the lower threshold value is met the signal processor communicates an interrupt request IRQ to the aggregator device . The aggregator device time stamps the interrupt request and requests and receives from the signal processor data representing the dominant axis velocity integral and identity of dominant axis. The aggregator device stores data representing this integral and axis in a non transitory memory of the aggregator device or alternately of memory communicatively connected to the aggregator device as applicable .

Referring to in conjunction with a method of strike detection to a pad incorporated with an accelerometer such as performed for example by the signal processor includes a step of reading strike data received from an accelerometer. The step of reading may be commenced as previously mentioned on receipt of an interrupt from the accelerometer and includes a request and receipt of data representing accelerometer axial measurements upon a strike to the pad. In a step determination is made whether received data meets a threshold.

As illustrated in if the threshold is not met the method returns to the step of reading . If however determination in the step is that the threshold is met a step of processing the root mean square of data representing the accelerometer axial measurements proceeds to obtain a vector sum magnitude corresponding to the measurements. This step of processing continues for each next set of data representing accelerometer axial measurements for example throughout the strike detected by the accelerometer e.g. until a threshold is met such as for the axis velocity integral previously mentioned .

In a step of calculating force each set of results of the step of processing is integrated to obtain a measured merit for the strike a dominant dimensional axis of the strike and highest magnitude of the acceleration. The measured merit for the strike relates to the magnitude and duration of acceleration as detected by the accelerometer for the period of the strike from commencement on meeting one threshold and on end on meeting another threshold . Further in the step acceleration for the dominant axis of the strike is integrated to obtain velocity for the axis and strike.

In a step an interrupt line is asserted when the dominant axis velocity integral in the step drops below the end threshold as set for measuring the strike. Upon asserting the interrupt line data from the step of calculating force is sent to an aggregator for logging and further handling. This data represents for example a time of the strike an identity of a pad of the strike a measured merit of the strike in the nature of a relative force of the strike and the dominant dimensional axis of the strike indicative of strike direction. Other additional or alternative calculations and data representing the strike or strike attributes may be performed in the method as will be appreciated from the foregoing. For example force and resistance constants such as of mechanical features like springs or joints processed mathematical models or other detection and measurement may in certain alternatives be employed in the method for measuring force direction duration and the like.

In use of the embodiments of in a striking apparatus of the embodiments the pad of the striking apparatus as to which strikes are to be measured includes a particular one of the accelerometer unit . Each accelerometer unit if one or more each incorporated in particular pads is communicatively connected to the aggregator unit . In certain examples each accelerometer unit is a small printed circuit board including the accelerometer device and the signal processor and the aggregator unit is same for all one or more accelerometer unit for respective pads. The aggregator unit for example is included in a control unit for the striking apparatus of the embodiments or can be included or incorporated in other components or functional devices of the control unit in one or more printed circuit board connected to other elements of the control unit or in other segregations or combinations.

Each accelerometer unit independently measures and calculates data representing strikes to one or more pad to which the accelerometer unit is integrated or connected. Where more than one accelerometer unit such as when multiple pads of the striking apparatus each accelerometer unit detects a strike to the particular pad to which associated and delivers data representing the strike to the aggregator unit . The aggregator as previously stated logs the strike i.e. data representing the strike together with the timestamp per the interrupt request and orderly stores these in memory of the aggregator if applicable or otherwise communicatively connected to the aggregator . Successive strikes are logged in the order in which interrupts are received by the aggregator and corresponding to the particular pad of the strike.

Referring to in conjunction with the aggregator is communicatively connected to a processor for example a control unit of a striking apparatus according to embodiments for controlling reporting display and other output as well as storage of data representing user actions and activities using the striking apparatus in a non transitory tangible media or other medium. After a particular time interval for the log entry of the aggregator the aggregator communicates the log entry to a control unit such as a processor and other devices of the striking apparatus. The control unit as described with respect to embodiments employs data of the log entry for reporting output to the user for example strike accuracy number power and other striking and training output in a display of the striking apparatus. Additionally the striking apparatus may store such reported output for the user such as to allow tracking of progress and the like.

In one embodiment the bandwidth of accelerometer signal sampling rate e.g. 1 ms intervals or other time periods and particular axes sampled e.g. X Y Z axes in the case of a 3 axis accelerometer are set as desired for the operations in accordance with accelerometer capabilities. Sampled raw data of the accelerometer is low pass filtered to reduce effect of noise for example using a 4 point rolling average filter Calculations are made for each axis e.g. 3 axes to with X Y and Z after the data of each sample is demodulated as follows X X X X X 4 where Xis the oldest raw data and Xis the newest raw data. After this calculation X is stored in a large data buffer and Xit discarded. A next raw data X is then sampled at a later designated time interval e.g. sampling at 1 ms intervals Calculations are then made for each axis as follows X X X X X 4 Where Xis the oldest raw data and Xis the newest raw data. After this calculation X is stored in the data buffer and Xis discarded. Subsequent sampling and calculations continue for each accelerometer. If there is more than one pad of the striking apparatus and each pad includes an accelerometer the data acquisition continues in similar manner with respect to each accelerometer.

In one embodiment a respective acceleration vector sum of the X Y and Z axis acceleration data sampled by a respective accelerometer is calculated for example by a signal processor of an accelerometer unit as the root mean square of the axis acceleration data. If the vector sum exceeds a pre determined threshold a strike is deemed detected for the particular accelerometer and corresponding pad of the striking apparatus. Sampling continues and sampled data is smoothed and vector sum calculated and stored until the vector sum falls below a second pre determined threshold. At this point a strike metric calculation is performed.

In one embodiment the time period of the strike and consequently of sampling and calculation of sampled strike data measured by the accelerometer as acceleration vectors along the applicable axes commences at the time the vector sum exceeds the first threshold and ends at the time the vector sum falls below the second threshold. Calculations are performed for the sampled data for example by a signal processor of an accelerometer unit. A peak magnitude i.e. Acceleration Peak of the vector sum is determined from the respective vector sums calculated. A direction of the vector at the Acceleration Peak is calculated and saved as the azimuth and the inclination.

The azimuth is calculated from Z and Y axis data. Z is positive acceleration when the pad is hit in or out. Y has positive acceleration when the pad is hit left to right. Zero 0 degrees is when there is positive Z acceleration with a Y acceleration value of 0. 90 degrees is when Z acceleration is 0 and Y acceleration is positive. 180 degrees is pad acceleration in the Z axis of the pad returning to a position at which normally disposed by the frame of the striking apparatus when not struck and Y acceleration is zero.

Inclination is the angle formed by the X and Z axes. 0 degrees is when the X acceleration is positive and the Z acceleration is 0. 90 degrees is when the X acceleration is zero and the Z acceleration is positive. 190 degrees is when the X acceleration is negative and the Z acceleration is zero. In this embodiment the vector sums from samples by the accelerometer during the time period of the strike i.e. between first and second threshold are then integrated to obtain a maximum velocity of the strike i.e. Total Energy which has relation to the total energy transferred to the pad by the strike. Each vector sum that was calculated is multiplied by the interval of the sample period e.g. 1 ms or other interval and each product of that multiplication is summed as a measure of total work for the strike i.e. Total Work . The following strike metrics are then communicated to an aggregator for the metrics Acceleration Peak Direction Total Work and Total Energy. Strike Aggregator The aggregator monitors interrupt request lines IRQ from each accelerometer of each pad of the striking apparatus for which strikes are detected. When an IRQ line is asserted a timestamp is logged by the aggregator. The aggregator then requests the strike metrics data from the applicable accelerometer unit of the stricken pad. When the aggregator receives strike metrics data from multiple different accelerometer units the order of receipt is saved in memory with 1 ms or other interval resolution and the strike metrics data is requested from each respective accelerometer unit in turn. Strike metric data for each particular accelerometer unit from which received is stored in chronological order together with a corresponding identifier of the pad of the accelerometer unit e.g. via a pad number . Strike metric data that remains stored for a particular period e.g. 25 ms or other period is deemed valid to indicate a strike as opposed to random movement of pads affected signals minor missed or random hits to pads or the like. Valid strike metrics data is communicated to other features of the control unit of the striking apparatus for further processing display audio or visual output storage or other operations. Pause Detection A pause such as may be invoked by a user desiring to halt striking with the striking apparatus for an interim period can be directed by the user for example by a particular strike of pad s or according to design by other user initiated contact with the pads display switch or other features of the apparatus. As an example a pause may occur when the aggregator detects a particular simultaneous strike to two pads e.g. simultaneous strike of kidney pads of the apparatus . To reduce the possibility of false detections leading to a pause the aggregator may check the detections against certain programmed or hardware parameters. In one possible example in which strike to two particular pads initiates the pause only if those two pads have accumulated a calculated work value falling within a particular higher range and other pads have accumulated a calculated work value falling only within a particular lower range is the pause indicated. In the event that a pause is detected according to certain embodiments the aggregator communicates a pause command to the control unit followed by the strike metrics data associated with the pause command. In other examples a pause even if indicated by testing of parameters may not be initiated if other control devices such as of the control unit of the striking apparatus so dictate. Of course other variations are possible for pause and pause detection as will be understood from this disclosure and recognized by a person of ordinary skills in the art.

Referring now to a method paces a machine s operations to accommodate a user s input. For purposes of example and discussion the method is described with respect to a striking apparatus of embodiments however similarities to other machines will be understood and are therefore intended as included for purposes of embodiments. The method commences with a step of setting a start and end of operation for example selecting a routine of the striking apparatus of set duration. In a step a maximum time duration is set for receipt of user input to a pad such as a maximum time for a user s strike or punch in response to direction for strike of a pad by the striking apparatus. The striking apparatus is commenced operating in a step .

As the striking apparatus operates such as according to a routine of the apparatus the striking apparatus prompts user input to a designated pad in a step . Upon the step of prompting user input the apparatus commences timing in a step for a period of the maximum duration and also detecting in a step to determine if any input of the user is received in accordance with the direction for input. If user input is detected in the step prior to the end of the step of timing for the maximum duration a step checks if the striking apparatus operation is completed such as on completion of the routine of the apparatus. If not completed the method returns to the step of prompting user input in accordance with the operation such as per the routine. If the machine operation is completed such as at end of the striking routine the method ends. Where user input is not detected in the step prior to reaching the end of the maximum duration of the step of timing timing ends and the method proceeds to the step to determine if the operation or routine is completed. If not the method returns to the step of prompting use input and if operation is completed the method ends.

The method may be implemented by a software program stored in tangible media a processor a computer electric circuits or any combinations of these. As one possible example the method is a software program stored in tangible media of a control unit of the striking apparatus. The software program is operated by a processor and memory of the control unit. Alternately the method can be implemented and operated by other devices and components of the striking apparatus or via control through communicative connection of the striking apparatus with another source such as a computer or processing device having access to the software program or components of the striking apparatus or peripheral equipment. Variations in operations of the striking apparatus in accordance with the method can alter various features and results for example if pace of operation is slowed pad prompts through highlight in the display are adjusted in coordination with the slowed pace and vice versa for variation to faster pace. In alternatives the striking apparatus because of the timestamps and logging of strike data and calculation of metrics can as necessary process and display a user s actual pace compared to an apparatus directed pace according to the particular routine and can deliver as output for display audio visual or otherwise warning or similar signals.

While the foregoing embodiments have been described herein with a certain degree of particularity the embodiments were disclosed by way of example only and that numerous changes in the detailed construction and the combination and arrangement of parts may be resorted to without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as hereinafter claimed.

