---

title: Shield adapters
abstract: A syringe shield useful for containing a syringe loaded with radioactive and/or light sensitive drugs is disclosed. The syringe shield may reduce a healthcare provider's exposure to radiation and/or may reduce or eliminate ambient light contamination to optically sensitive components in the syringe.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09125976&OS=09125976&RS=09125976
owner: Bayer Medical Care Inc.
number: 09125976
owner_city: Indianola
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130315
---
This application claims priority from U.S. Provisional No. 61 665 484 entitled Radiation Shield Adapted to Fit a Medical MR Injector Syringe filed Jun. 28 2012 and to U.S. Provisional No. 61 656 743 entitled Radiopharmaceutical Delivery and Tube Management System filed Jun. 7 201 each of which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

Administration of radioactive pharmaceutical substances or drugs generally termed radiopharmaceuticals is often used in the medical field to provide information or imagery of internal body structures and or functions including but not limited to bone vasculature organs and organ systems and other tissue or as therapeutic agents to kill or inhibit the growth of targeted cells or tissue such as cancer cells. Radiopharmaceutical agents used in imaging procedures and therapeutic procedures typically include highly radioactive nuclides of short half lives and are hazardous to attending medical personnel. These agents are toxic and can have physical and or chemical effects for attending medical personnel such as clinicians imaging technicians nurses and pharmacists. Excessive radiation exposure is harmful to attending medical personnel due to their occupational repeated exposure to the radiopharmaceuticals. The constant and repeated exposure of medical personnel and patients to radiopharmaceuticals over an extended period of time is a significant problem in the nuclear medicine field.

Administration of optically sensitive substances is an additional concern in the medical field. These substances are often used for imaging purposes and if exposed to ambient light contamination can have reduced function or complete loss of function. It is a significant problem if these substances become contaminated from ambient light and it is of high importance to have these substances protected from exposure to ambient light in order to preserve their function before delivery to the patient.

Various embodiments are directed to syringe shields including a first shield panel having a syringe bore designed and configured to correspond to the shape of a syringe and a second shield panel having a syringe bore designed and configured to correspond to the shape of a syringe wherein reversible coupling of the first shield panel and the second shield panel provides a syringe bore configured to encase a syringe and provide a plunger access bore configured to allow access to a plunger associated with the syringe. In some embodiments the first shield panel and the second shield panel may be hingedly attached.

In such embodiments the first shield panel and the second shield panel may include or be composed of a radioactive emissions blocking material and in certain embodiments a syringe may be completely or nearly completely encased by the radioactive emissions blocking material when the first shield panel and the second shield panel are coupled. The radiation emissions blocking material is not limited and can include but are not limited to materials such as tungsten tungsten alloys molybdenum molybdenum allows lead lead alloys lead lined wood leaded glass polymer composite materials ceramic materials borated polymers and combinations thereof. In other embodiments the first shield panel and the second shield panel may include or be composed of an optical blocking material and in certain embodiments a syringe may be completely or nearly completely encased by the optical blocking material when the first shield and the second shield panel are coupled. The optical blocking material is not limited and can include but are not limited to materials such as metals metal alloys wood dark colored glass non clear polymer composite materials ceramic materials or any other material that may block ambient light contamination.

In some embodiments the syringe bore may be sized to accommodate a syringe having a diameter sufficient to hold 0.5 ml 1 ml 3 ml 5 ml 10 ml 15 ml 20 ml 30 ml 40 ml 50 ml 60 ml and combinations thereof. In particular embodiments the syringe shield may include an integrated cap and in other embodiments the syringe shield may include a removable cap. In some embodiments the syringe shield may include a sleeve encasing the first shield panel the second shield panel or combinations thereof. In various embodiments the sleeve is composed of a material selected from the group consisting of metals metal alloys polymeric materials polymer composites material and combinations thereof and in certain embodiments the sleeve may be composed of aluminum or polycarbonate. In particular embodiments the sleeve may be integrally attached to each of the first shield panel and the second shield panel and such sleeves may be composed of for example metals metal alloys polymeric materials polymer composite materials and combinations thereof or in particular embodiments aluminum or polycarbonate.

In some embodiments the syringe shield may include a clamping means configured to connect the first shield panel and the second shield panel. In particular embodiments each of the first shield panel and the second shield panel may include hinge extensions and the syringe shield further comprises a hinge pin received by the hinge extensions and in some embodiments each of the first shield panel and the second shield panel may include one or more connector plates. In some embodiments the syringe shield may include a collar configured and arranged to reversibly connect to the first shield panel and the second shield panel and connect the syringe shield to a device or base plate. In some embodiments the syringe shield may include a carrier handle and in certain embodiments the carrier handle may be configured to be reversibly attached to the first and second shield panels.

Before the present compositions and methods are described it is to be understood that they are not limited to the particular compositions methodologies or protocols described as these may vary. It is also to be understood that the terminology used in the description is for the purpose of describing the particular versions or embodiments only and is not intended to limit their scope which will be limited only by the appended claims.

It must also be noted that as used herein and in the appended claims the singular forms a an and the include plural reference unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Unless defined otherwise all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meanings as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art. Although any methods and materials similar or equivalent to those described herein can be used in the practice or testing of embodiments disclosed the preferred methods devices and materials are now described.

 Optional or optionally means that the subsequently described event or circumstance may or may not occur and that the description includes instances where the event occurs and instances where it does not.

 Substantially no means that the subsequently described event may occur at most about less than 10 of the time or the subsequently described component may be at most about less than 10 of the total composition in some embodiments and in others at most about less than 5 and in still others at most about less than 1 .

For purposes of the description hereinafter the terms upper lower right left vertical horizontal top bottom lateral longitudinal and derivatives thereof shall relate to the orientation of embodiments disclosed in the drawing figures. However it is to be understood that embodiments may assume alternative variations and step sequences except where expressly specified to the contrary. It is also to be understood that the specific devices and processes illustrated in the attached drawings and described in the following specification are simply exemplary embodiments. Hence specific dimensions and other physical characteristics related to the embodiments disclosed herein are not to be considered as limiting.

It is to be understood that the disclosed embodiments may assume various alternative variations and step sequences except where expressly specified to the contrary. It is also to be understood that the specific devices and processes illustrated in the attached drawings and described in the following specification are simply exemplary embodiments.

Various embodiments are directed to a syringe shield that is configured to reduce or eliminate exposure of the operator subject or other injected organism to radioactive emissions from a radiopharmaceutical in a syringe and to reduce or eliminate ambient light contamination to optical components in a syringe. In other embodiments shielding components may stabilize radiopharmaceuticals or optical tracers thermally and mechanically. For example shielding components may be designed to reduce or eliminate exposure of an optical tracer to light which can quench fluorescence and cause the tracer to become heated or chemically modified over time reducing the optical output or chemical or enzymatic activity of the tracer.

In various embodiments the syringe shield may include one or more shield panels and in some embodiments the one or more shield panels may be encased by one or more interconnected sleeves to form the syringe shield. In some embodiments the shield panels and sleeves may be integrated together such that each sleeve contains a shield panel that is fixedly attached to the sleeve. In other embodiments the shield panels and sleeves may be separate parts that are designed to be combined around the syringe to create the syringe shield. For example in some embodiments two or more shield panels may be placed over a syringe and a hinged sleeve may be placed around the two or more shield panels and locked into place over the syringe. The shield may have any number of shield panels and sleeve components. For example in some embodiments the syringe shield may have 1 2 3 4 5 or 6 shield panels and 1 2 3 4 5 or 6 sleeve components to encase the shield panels.

In some embodiments the shield panels contain radioactive emissions blocking material such as for example tungsten tungsten alloys molybdenum molybdenum allows lead lead alloys lead lined wood leaded glass polymer composite materials ceramic materials borated polymers and the like and combinations thereof. In certain embodiments the one or more shield panels may be tungsten. In some embodiments the sleeves encasing the panels may be composed of any material including metals metal alloys polymeric materials polymer composite materials and the like and combinations thereof. In particular embodiments the sleeves may be aluminum or polycarbonate. In further embodiments the sleeves and shield panels may be integrated together. The syringe shield may contain little or no magnetic materials and little or no electronics.

In some embodiments the syringe shield may be tapered on a forward end to accommodate the shape of the tapered end of a common syringe and in such embodiments the syringe shield may include an additional smaller bore at the tapered end that may provide an access point to the syringe when the syringe is enclosed within the shield. In some embodiments the forward end of the syringe shield may be domed such that the tapered end of the syringe is enclosed under the dome but outer surfaces of the syringe do not physically contact the domed portion of the syringe shield. As with the tapered forward end the domed forward end may include an additional bore to provide access to the syringe when the syringe is encased in the syringe shield.

The aft portion of the syringe shield may be designed to allow the syringe encased in the syringe shield to be accessed and contacted by a device for expelling the contents of the syringe such as a piston rod or plunger. In some embodiments such as that depicted in the aft portion of the syringe shield may be open and continuous with the bore. Thus any means for expelling the syringe can easily reach the syringe. In other embodiments the aft portion of the syringe shield may be partially enclosed. For example in some embodiments the aft portion of each shield panel may be enclosed with a center bore such that when the shield panels are combined a circular center bore is provided that allows access to a piston or plunger to contact the syringe. The size of the circular center bore may vary among embodiments and may be sufficiently sized to allow access to the syringe while blocking at least a portion of the radiation from the syringe or to block ambient light contamination to optical components in the syringe.

In some embodiments the shield panels may be connected. For example in some embodiments the shield panels may be hingedly attached to one another to produce a clam shell syringe shield. In other embodiments the shield panels may be individual devices that can be reversibly connected to one another during use. For example as illustrated in each shield panel may include one or more appendages one or more hinge extensions one or more connector plates and the like or combinations thereof.

In embodiments such as those shown in the shield panels may contact one another such that the hinge extensions interconnect allowing a continuous bore to be created through the aligned hinge extensions . A hinge pin not shown may be placed through the continuous bore facilitating a connection between the shield panels . In some embodiments the hinge pin may be permanently held within the continuous bore by for example providing a cap or flange on either end of the hinge pin after it has been placed in the continuous bore. In other embodiments the hinge pin may be removable and in certain embodiments the hinge pin may include a handle to allow at least one end of the hinge pin to be easily grasped and manipulated.

The shield panels of the example shield illustrated in further include appendages that align when the shield panels are brought into contact with one another. In some embodiments one or both shield panels may include a clasp not shown or other closure device that is fixedly attached to one of the shield panels and is capable of contacting and holding an appendage of the other shield panel to effect a reversible connection. In other embodiments an appendage on one shield panel may be aligned with an appendage on another shield and a clamping device be used to hold the aligned appendages together facilitating a reversible connection. The clamping device can be held in place using any means known in the art including for example a tension screw a spring loaded ball detent a hinge various clamping mechanism and the like or combinations thereof.

The shield panels may further include one or more connector plates . The connector plates are generally a lateral extension or flange extending from one end of the shield panels. In some embodiments the connector plate may facilitate connection of the shield panels and in certain embodiments the connector plate may facilitate connection between the shield and a device. In some embodiments the connector plate may fit within a groove on a surface of the device that holds the shield in place on the device. In other embodiments a magnet or other electromagnetic connection may be made between the device and the shield and in still other embodiments the connector plate may include one or more orifices through which a connector pin or screw may be passed that operably connects the shield to the device. Devices may be any devices that hold radiation or optically sensitive components or containers including radioactive or optically sensitive materials. In certain embodiments the device may be a fluid delivery device or system and in some embodiments such fluid delivery devices or systems may be designed and configured to deliver radiopharmaceuticals or optically sensitive components.

The connector plate may be separated from one another when the shield panels are connected to form the shield for example connector plates may be on opposing sides of the shield. In other embodiments the connector plates may contact one another at joints along the circumference of the shield to produce a continuous flange around a circumference of the shield and in still other embodiments the connector plates may be interconnected when the shield panels are aligned. For example a first connector plate may be configured to receive the second connector plate not shown when the shield panels are aligned such that orifices on each connector plate align to produce a continuous opening through which a connector pin screw or bolt can be passed. In such embodiments the connector plate may provide both a reversible connection between shield panels and a reversible connection to a device. In some embodiments only one shield panel contains a connector plate which may be used to connect the shield to a mounting support or device. The second shield plate is connected to the first shield plate for example through hinges and through the connector plate of shield panel both panels are connected to a mounting support or device.

In some embodiments an upper or forward portion of the syringe shield may be open as illustrated in . In other embodiments the syringe shield may include an integrated cap that encloses around the forward end of the shield allowing for minimal emissions from the shielded syringe. In such embodiments the cap may include a bore providing access to the nozzle of the syringe. In other embodiments a removable cap may be attached to the shield after the shield panels are in connection with one another. The removable cap may be attached to the shield panels by any means such as for example a threaded assembly a snap enclosure a slide fit a vacuum seal and the like and combinations thereof. As in the integrated cap the removable cap may include a bore to allow for tubing or other fluid path elements to the nozzle of the syringe. In some embodiments the bore may include a shoulder to properly position the syringe within the forward portion of the syringe shield when being prepared for injection.

In particular embodiments the syringe shield may include one or more sleeves that cover the shield panels to facilitate attachment of the shield panels and or improve handling. For example shows another example of a syringe shield having an upper housing sleeve and a lower housing sleeve . In some embodiments the upper housing sleeve and the lower housing sleeve may encase a shield panel containing a bore not shown capable of housing a syringe . As illustrated in the syringe shield may include various addition housing or sleeve sections. For example the syringe shield may include one or more removable or hinged segments that encase for example a plunger portion of the syringe a piston a rod or other means for expelling the contents of the syringe. In some embodiments the upper housing sleeve may be removeably attached to the lower housing sleeve by any means including pressure fittings snaps screws clamps bolts pins and the like and combinations thereof and in other embodiments the upper housing sleeve may be fixedly attached to the lower housing sleeve by for example welding or gluing. In other embodiments the upper housing sleeve and the lower housing sleeve may be connected by for example a hinge. In still other embodiments the upper housing of the syringe shield may include a hinged syringe access door that allows access to part of the internal segments of the syringe shield . For example as illustrated in a hinged access door may allow access to the syringe such that the user can more easily maneuver the syringe while inserting it into the syringe shield . The upper housing sleeve may be fixedly attached to the lower housing sleeve for example the upper housing sleeve and lower housing sleeve may be hingedly attached to each other in a clam shell configuration.

In other embodiments the syringe shield has shield panels which may be incorporated in the sleeves. As illustrated in in some embodiments the syringe shield may be designed to include a radioactive shield panel in the upper housing sleeve and a shield panel in the lower housing sleeve . As illustrated in shield panels may be incorporated into the syringe housing such that the syringe is completely or nearly completely encased by the radioactive emissions blocking material when the syringe shield sleeves are in the closed position and the upper housing or any part thereof can be hingedly attached to the lower housing to allow access to the syringe . In some embodiments the syringe bore may be configured and designed to accommodate a syringe . Such a syringe bore may include a shoulder positioned to contact a front portion of the syringe and syringe bore to provide a means for accessing the outlet portion of the syringe.

An aft groove associated with the plunger access bore may also be provided to accommodate a flanged portion of the syringe . In certain embodiments the plunger of the syringe or another actuation means may fit within an enlarged portion of the shield that allows user access to the syringe and plunger . The enlarged portion of the housing may further accommodate the piston or other part of the actuation component that is configured to associate with the plunger allowing the plunger to advance and retract. In some embodiments the enlarged portion may include additional shield panels or extensions of the shield panels . In other embodiments the enlarged portion may not include additional shielding.

While illustrates a syringe shield having an aft enlarged portion in certain embodiments the syringe shield may include a forward enlarged portion as illustrated in to encase tubing or other extensions from the syringe. In some embodiments as illustrated in the syringe shield may include a forward enlarged portion with an access bore designed to encase a connector portion of the syringe and a portion of the tubing extending from the connector of the syringe to a delivery device. In other embodiments the forward enlarged portion may include a lateral access bore provided on a side of the forward enlarged portion while the forward section of the forward enlarged portion remains enclosed and shielded. Without wishing to be bound by theory a lateral bore may allow for a reduction in shine from the forward end of the syringe thereby reducing light exposure or potential irradiation of the user or to reduce or eliminate ambient light contamination to optically sensitive components in a syringe. The forward enlarged portion may be connected to the syringe shield and form part of the syringe shield . In some embodiments the forward enlarged portion may be separately attached to the syringe shield and may include a separate hinged portion that allows access to the connector and tubing section when the syringe is encased in the syringe shield . In certain embodiments the forward extension may include a lateral exit port through which the tubing section may exit the syringe shield . The forward section of the access bore may be enclosed with a blocking material to reduce shine from the connector and potential exposure of the user to radiation or to reduce or eliminate ambient light contamination to optically sensitive components in a syringe. additionally shows a syringe shield having a built in handle which is further described below with .

In some embodiments a connection between the shield and a device may be facilitated by a locking mechanism that is integrated into the housing. For example as illustrated in the syringe shield of such embodiments may attach to a delivery injector body not shown using a syringe mount system which may include one or more flanges or grooves configured to associate with a syringe mount . The syringe mount of such embodiments may be in any configuration and may include for example buttons pins slides grooves and the like configured to associate with the syringe shield to facilitate proper placement of the housing on or within the delivery injector body. In other embodiments the syringe shield may attach to a delivery injector body through a saddle mount which may be shaped to fit within a groove provided on the syringe shield . In some embodiments the saddle mount may include pressure fittings grooves pins buttons and the like that facilitate reversible attachment of the syringe shield to the saddle mount. The saddle mount of such embodiments may be similar to a ski boot connector in which a first flange on the syringe shield is inserted into a groove on the saddle mount and a second flange or groove is received by a hinged clamp that holds the second flange or groove in the mount. The hinged clamp may include one or more springs that are positioned to apply force to the second flange or groove holding it in place. The hinged clamp may be forced backward by a lateral flange on the syringe shield that contacts the hinged clamp when for example the syringe shield is pivoted in the saddle mount.

In various embodiments the syringe mount may be associated with and attached to a framework underlying the housing rather than the housing itself. The framework will generally be composed of a rigid material that provides mechanical support for the syringe mount with a syringe shield mounted to the syringe mount and an actuation component mount. Without wishing to be bound by theory the framework may substantially improve the accuracy and reproducibility of injections by reducing or eliminating flexion that can occur when the syringe mount and or actuation component are attached to a housing composed of a more flexible material. In some embodiments the framework may be composed of steel aluminum or another metal or metal alloy or high tensile strength polymer compositions and may be designed to fit within the housing and provide attachment sites for mechanical components of the device in addition to the syringe mount and actuation component.

In certain embodiments the syringe mount may include a forward groove or ridge into which a corresponding ridge or groove on the syringe shield fits. The syringe mount may further include a rear binding that associates with a groove or ridge on the syringe shield. In some embodiments the binding may include a housing attached to a delivery injector body that includes one or more springs positioned to urge a clamp forward against the groove or ridge of the syringe shield to lock the syringe shield in place when it has been pushed into position. Embodiments are not limited to any particular syringe holder or mount. For example in some embodiments the syringe holder may be a device configured to accept and hold a syringe or vial holding the radiopharmaceutical by removably attaching to the syringe or vial body or flanges associated with the syringe or vial. In other embodiments the syringe holder or mount may be configured to accept and hold a secondary device housing a syringe or vial including a radiopharmaceutical.

In certain embodiments the syringe shield may be attached to a delivery injector body using a collar syringe shield support and the like or combinations thereof. For example is an example of a base plate configured to connect with the syringe shield described above with reference to . Such base plates may be an integral part of a device onto which the syringe shield is designed to interact or in some embodiments such base plates may be made as a separate component that can be attached to existing devices as an adapter. Thus in some embodiments the base plate may include flanges holes clamps appendages and the like or other components and combinations thereof for attaching the base plate to the device.

The base plates of such embodiments may generally include one or more orifices positioned to allow actuation devices from the device to contact the syringe or a plunger stopper or piston associated with the syringe to expel the contents of the syringe. The base plate may further include a means for attaching the syringe shield to the base plate. For example in some embodiments the one or more orifices may include grooves or threads that correspond with grooves or threads on the syringe shield and allow the syringe shield to be screwed into the base plate. In other embodiments holes may be provided near the orifices that are configured to receive a pin or screw which is received by the orifices in a connector plate and in and attach the syringe shield to the base plate .

In some embodiments the collar syringe shield support is designed to fit over and around the front of a delivery injector body to avoid modification to the injector and to provide free access of the syringes to the injector head for syringe mounting while providing a relatively immovable base to which to attach the syringe shield. For example provides a two piece collar that is designed and configured to encircle a portion of a device and this collar assembly may be attached to the base plate of the collar syringe shield support by an attachment extension . More specifically the base plate may be received by an opening in the collar mount and used to secure the base plate in place using screws pins or another attachment means. The collar mount may include one or more attachment extensions that include a means for attaching the collar to the base plate. As illustrated in the attachment means includes a groove and a screw plate that is configured to fit over and connect with an appendage or flange on the base plate. Screws pins or another attachment means can be introduced through the screw plate into corresponding holes or orifices in the appendage or flange on the base plate to connect the collar syringe shield assembly to the base plate. In a particular embodiment the syringe shield may be permanently or temporarily attached to a Medrad Spectris Solaris EP injector or similar fluid delivery systems to provide shielding for a drug containing syringe.

In some embodiments the collar syringe shield assembly may be pivoted on the appendage or flange of the base plate to allow the position of the syringe to change during use without disassembling the collar syringe shield assembly or removing the collar from the appendage or flange as shown in . shows the components of and with a syringe shield of and syringes mounted onto a device. In particular embodiments the syringe shield can be selectively moved by the operator into a position where the syringe shield is around a syringe or be moved to a second position for storage on the injector head where it is not surrounding or shielding the syringe. In some embodiments a locking pin may be provided that fits into holes in the collar syringe shield support enabling the shield to be locked into position either around a syringe or in a second storage position not surrounding a syringe. In other embodiments the locking pin is spring loaded so that it is a part of the syringe shield and not removable such that the pin can be pulled out and spring into the hole when it is moved to the correct position or the locking pin can be rotated 90 degrees to hold it in the disengaged position to facilitate easier movement between the deployed and stored position and then turned 90 degrees again to engage the hole.

Further embodiments include a carrier handle designed to attach to the syringe shield to ease transport of the radiopharmaceutical and reduce exposure to the person carrying the syringe shield. For example as illustrated in in some embodiments a carrier handle may include a tubing bore cover configured and arranged to fit within the tubing bore and or a groove flange or other attachment means associated with the tubing bore. The carrier handle may further include a plunger cover configured and arranged to associate with the enlarged portion of the syringe housing by for example contacting the housing within the enlarged portion of the housing . In some embodiments the tubing bore cover and or the plunger cover may include a material capable of blocking radioactive emissions that is positioned to block emission that could otherwise escape through the tubing bore and the plunger access point . In particular embodiments the carrier handle may include a carrier body that includes a grip portion and the plunger cover . The tubing bore cover may be hingedly attached to the carrier body and may include a lever or button that is configured to allow the tubing bore cover to be released from the tubing bore or corresponding flanges and grooves on the housing when the lever or button is depressed.

In operation the user may grasp the syringe shield by positioning the plunger cover within the plunger access point or within the enlarged portion of the syringe shield while the lever or button is depressed. The tubing bore cover may be positioned over the tubing bore and the lever or button can be released such that the tubing bore cover is properly positioned within the tubing bore and corresponding grooves . The carrier handle is thereby sufficiently connected to the syringe shield to allow the user to easily pick up and transport the syringe shield without actually touching the housing itself. To remove the carrier handle the user can position the syringe shield within a delivery injector body to allow the syringe shield to connect to a syringe mount. The lever or button may be depressed releasing the tubing access bore cover from the tubing access bore and corresponding groove and the user may rotate the carrier handle such that the plunger cover is removed from the plunger access point and enlarged portion of the syringe shield . Finally the carrier handle can be withdrawn from the syringe shield while the syringe shield remains mounted on a delivery injector body. Exposure to radioactive emissions from radiopharmaceutical minimalized during transport and only occurs during loading of the syringe into the syringe shield and installation of the tubing sections after the carrier handle has been removed.

The carrier handle and syringe shield may be made from any material. For example the carrier handle and syringe shield may be made from a metal a polymeric material or combinations thereof. In certain embodiments the carrier handle may be prepared from a rigid polymeric material such as a polycarbonate that may reduce the weight of the combined syringe shield and the carrier handle while the syringe shield may be prepared from a metal or other material that is capable of blocking radioactive emissions such as tungsten or lead. In still other embodiments the syringe shield may be made from a metal such as tungsten or lead that is covered in a polymeric material such as a polycarbonate or light weight metal such as aluminum. In still other embodiments the syringe shield may include a pigment or dye at eliminates exposure of optical tracers to light. For example in embodiments in which an optical tracer is delivered using the delivery device the syringe shield may be prepared exclusively from an opaque or colored to absorb particular wavelengths of light to reduce decay of the optical tracer. In such embodiments the syringe shield may not include a metal or other material to block radioactive emissions and the radioactive emissions blocking material portion of the devices illustrated may be omitted and replaced with for example a polymeric material.

The systems that incorporate the syringe shield of the various embodiments may be configured to deliver any radiopharmaceutical known in the art and the radiopharmaceutical may be delivered alone or in combination with another pharmaceutical composition. For example in some embodiments the system may be designed and configured to deliver Ca Ca C L methyl methionine C glycocholic acid C para amino benzoic acid PABA C urea C d xylose Cr red blood cells Cr Cr Cr ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid EDTA Co cyanocobalamin vitamin B12 Co cyanocobalamin vitamin B12 Er colloid F fluorodeoxyglucose FDG F fluoride F fluorocholine Ga dotatoc or dotatate H water In diethylenetriaminepenta acetic acid DTPA In leukocytes In platelets In pentetreotide In octreotide I iodide I o iodohippurate I m iodobenzylguanidine MIBG I FP CIT I fibrinogen I iodide I iodide I m iodobenzylguanidine MIBG Fe Fe or Fe mKr aqueous N ammonia O water P phosphate Rb chloride Sm ethylenediaminotetramethylenephosphoric acid EDTMP Se elenorcholesterol Se 23 Seleno 25 homo tauro cholate SeHCAT Na Na Na Na Sr chloride mTc pertechnetate mTc human albumin mTc human albumin macroaggregates or microspheres mTc phosphonates and phosphate mTc diethylenetriaminepenta acetic acid DTPA mTc dimercaptosuccinic acid V DMSA mTc dimercaptosuccinic acid III DMSA mTc colloid mTc hepatic iminodiacetic acid HIDA mTc denatured red blood cells mTc red blood cells mTc mercaptoacetyltriglycine MAG3 mTc exametazime mTc sestamibi MIBI methoxy isobutyl isonitrile mTc sulesomab IMMU MN3 murine Fab SH antigranulocyte monoclonal antibody fragments mTc human immunoglobulin mTc tetrofosmin mTc ethyl cysteinate dimer ECD Tl n Xe in isotonic sodium chloride solution Y silicate and the like and combinations thereof. In certain embodiments the system may be configured for delivery of radiopharmaceuticals for imaging myocardial or other cardiovascular conditions. In such embodiments the system may be configured to deliver F fluorodeoxyglucose FDG N ammonia O Water Rb Chloride mTc pertechnetate mTc human albumin mTc human albumin macroaggregates or microspheres mTc diethylenetriaminepenta acetic acid DTPA mTc denatured red blood cells mTc red blood cells mTc exametazime mTc sestamibi MIBI methoxy isobutyl isonitrile mTc tetrofosmin Tl Tl and the like and combinations thereof.

Optical tracers used in various embodiments may be derived from any source. For example in some embodiments the optical tracer may be a fluorochrome green fluorescent protein red fluorescent protein and luciferin or any other bioluminescent molecule isolated from for example ctenophores coelenterases mollusca fish ostracods insects bacteria crustacea annelids and earthworms. In particular embodiments the optical tracer may be isolated from fireflies or and in certain embodiments the optical tracer may be luciferin or coelentrazine.

In some embodiments the system may be configured to administer a single radiopharmaceutical composition and in other embodiments the system may be configured to deliver two or more different radiopharmaceuticals. In embodiments in which the system is configured to deliver multiple radiopharmaceuticals the system may allow the operator to switch configurations depending on the intended procedure. The amount of radiopharmaceutical delivered by the system may vary among embodiments and based on the protocol being used. Generally a doctor technician or other qualified personnel can determine an appropriate amount of the radiopharmaceutical to be delivered to a particular subject using metrics regarding the subject known in the art. Because of the flexibility of the system any amount of radiopharmaceutical can be delivered.

Although various embodiments have been described in detail for the purpose of illustration it is to be understood that such detail is solely for that purpose and that the disclosure is not limited to the disclosed embodiments but on the contrary is intended to cover modifications and equivalent arrangements. For example it is to be understood that this disclosure contemplates that to the extent possible one or more features of any embodiment can be combined with one or more features of any other embodiment. It is also to be understood that the specific devices and processes illustrated in the attached drawings and described in the following specification are simply exemplary embodiments.

