---

title: Look ahead of links/alter links
abstract: A computationally-implemented method comprises retrieving at least a portion of data from a data source, determining an acceptability of an effect of the retrieved at least a portion of the data at least in part via a virtual machine representation of at least a part of an end user's real machine having one or more end-user specified preferences, and providing at least one data display option to the end user's real machine based on the determining acceptability of the effect of the retrieved at least a portion of the data.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08793616&OS=08793616&RS=08793616
owner: The Invention Science Fund I, LLC
number: 08793616
owner_city: Bellevue
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130610
---
The present application is related to and claims the benefit of the earliest available effective filing date s from the following listed application s the Related Applications e.g. claims earliest available priority dates for other than provisional patent applications or claims benefits under 35 USC 119 e for provisional patent applications for any and all parent grandparent great grandparent etc. applications of the Related Application s .

1. For purposes of the USPTO extra statutory requirements the present application constitutes a continuation in part of U.S. Patent Application entitled LOOK AHEAD OF LINKS ALTER LINKS naming Gary W. Flake William H. Gates III Roderick A. Hyde Edward K. Y. Jung Royce A. Levien Robert W. Lord Mark A. Malamud Richard F. Rashid John D. Rinaldo Jr. Clarence T. Tegreene Charles Whitmer and Lowell L. Wood Jr. as inventors filed 21 Dec. 2007 application Ser. No. 12 005 064 which is co pending currently or is an application of which a currently co pending application is entitled to the benefit of the filing date.

2. For purposes of the USPTO extra statutory requirements the present application constitutes a continuation in part of U.S. patent application entitled LOOK AHEAD OF LINKS ALTER LINKS naming Gary W. Flake William H. Gates III Roderick A. Hyde Edward K. Y. Jung Royce A. Levien Robert W. Lord Mark A. Malamud Richard F. Rashid John D. Rinaldo Jr. Clarence T. Tegreene Charles Whitmer and Lowell L. Wood Jr. as inventors filed Dec. 27 2007 application Ser. No. 12 005 637 which is currently co pending or is an application of which a currently co pending application is entitled to the benefit of the filing date.

3. For purposes of the USPTO extra statutory requirements the present application constitutes a continuation in part of U.S. patent application entitled LOOK AHEAD OF LINKS ALTER LINKS naming Gary W. Flake William H. Gates III Roderick A. Hyde Edward K. Y. Jung Royce A. Levien Robert W. Lord Mark A. Malamud Richard F. Rashid John D. Rinaldo Jr. Clarence T. Tegreene Charles Whitmer and Lowell L. Wood Jr. as inventors filed Mar. 6 2008 application Ser. No. 12 074 855 which is currently co pending or is an application of which a currently co pending application is entitled to the benefit of the filing date.

4. For purposes of the USPTO extra statutory requirements the present application constitutes a continuation in part of U.S. patent application entitled LOOK AHEAD OF LINKS ALTER LINKS naming Gary W. Flake William H. Gates III Roderick A. Hyde Edward K. Y. Jung Royce A. Levien Robert W. Lord Mark A. Malamud Richard F. Rashid John D. Rinaldo Jr. Clarence T. Tegreene Charles Whitmer and Lowell L. Wood Jr. as inventors filed May 20 2008 application Ser. No. 12 154 148 which is currently or is an application of which a currently co pending application is entitled to the benefit of the filing date.

5. For purposes of the USPTO extra statutory requirements the present application constitutes a continuation in part of U.S. patent application entitled LOOK AHEAD OF LINKS ALTER LINKS naming Gary W. Flake William H. Gates III Roderick A. Hyde Edward K. Y. Jung Royce A. Levien Robert W. Lord Mark A. Malamud Richard F. Rashid John D. Rinaldo Jr. Clarence T. Tegreene Charles Whitmer and Lowell L. Wood Jr. as inventors filed May 22 2008 application Ser. No. 12 154 423 which is currently co pending or is an application of which a currently co pending application is entitled to the benefit of the filing date.

6. For purposes of the USPTO extra statutory requirements the present application constitutes a continuation in part of U.S. patent application entitled LOOK AHEAD OF LINKS ALTER LINKS naming Gary W. Flake William H. Gates III Roderick A. Hyde Edward K. Y. Jung Royce A. Levien Robert W. Lord Mark A. Malamud Richard F. Rashid John D. Rinaldo Jr. Clarence T. Tegreene Charles Whitmer and Lowell L. Wood Jr. as inventors filed May 22 2008 application Ser. No. 12 154 436 which is currently co pending or is an application of which a currently co pending application is entitled to the benefit of the filing date.

7. For purposes of the USPTO extra statutory requirements the present application constitutes a continuation in part of U.S. patent application entitled LOOK AHEAD OF LINKS ALTER LINKS naming Gary W. Flake William H. Gates III Roderick A. Hyde Edward K. Y. Jung Royce A. Levien Robert W. Lord Mark A. Malamud Richard F. Rashid John D. Rinaldo Jr. Clarence T. Tegreene Charles Whitmer and Lowell L. Wood Jr. as inventors filed Jun. 20 2008 application Ser. No. 12 214 784 which is currently co pending or is an application of which a currently co pending application is entitled to the benefit of the filing date.

8. For purposes of the USPTO extra statutory requirements the present application constitutes a continuation in part of U.S. patent application entitled LOOK AHEAD OF LINKS ALTER LINKS naming Gary W. Flake William H. Gates III Roderick A. Hyde Edward K. Y. Jung Royce A. Levien Robert W. Lord Mark A. Malamud Richard F. Rashid John D. Rinaldo Jr. Clarence T. Tegreene Charles Whitmer and Lowell L. Wood Jr. as inventors filed Jun. 27 2008 application Ser. No. 12 215 695 which is currently co pending or is an application of which a currently co pending application is entitled to the benefit of the filing date.

The United States Patent Office USPTO has published a notice to the effect that the USPTO s computer programs require that patent applicants reference both a serial number and indicate whether an application is a continuation or continuation in part. Stephen G. Kunin USPTO Official Gazette Mar. 18 2003 available at http www.uspto.gov web offices com sol og 2003 week11 patbene.htm. The present Applicant has provided above a specific reference to the application s from which priority is being claimed as recited by statute. Applicant understands that the statute is unambiguous in its specific reference language and does not require either a serial number or any characterization such as continuation or continuation in part for claiming priority to U.S. patent applications. Notwithstanding the foregoing Applicant understands that the USPTO s computer programs have certain data entry requirements and hence Applicant is designating the present application as a continuation in part of its parent applications as set forth above but expressly points out that such designations are not to be construed in any way as any type of commentary and or admission as to whether or not the present application contains any new matter in addition to the matter of its parent application s .

All subject matter of the Related Application and of any and all parent grandparent great grandparent etc. applications of the Related Applications is incorporated herein by reference to the extent such subject matter is not inconsistent herewith.

Web sites often contain links to other web sites enabling a user to navigate from one web site to another. Certain links may contain data that may compromise security and or privacy. Certain links may contain data that a user may not desire to view.

A computationally implemented method includes but is not limited to retrieving at least a portion of data from a data source determining an acceptability of an effect of the retrieved at least a portion of the data at least in part via a virtual machine representation of at least a part of an end user s real machine having one or more end user specified preferences and providing at least one data display option to the end user s real machine based on the determining acceptability of the effect of the retrieved at least a portion of the data. In addition to the foregoing other computationally implemented method aspects are described in the claims drawings and text forming a part of the present disclosure.

In one or more various aspects related systems include but are not limited to circuitry and or programming for effecting the herein referenced method aspects the circuitry and or programming can be virtually any combination of hardware software and or firmware configured to effect the herein referenced method aspects depending upon the design choices of the system designer.

A computationally implemented system includes but is not limited to means for retrieving at least a portion of data from a data source means for determining an acceptability of an effect of the retrieved at least a portion of the data at least in part via a virtual machine representation of at least a part of an end user s real machine having one or more end user specified preferences and means for providing at least one data display option to the end user s real machine based on the determining acceptability of the effect of the retrieved at least a portion of the data. In addition to the foregoing other system aspects are described in the claims drawings and text forming a part of the present disclosure.

A computationally implemented system includes but is not limited to circuitry for retrieving at least a portion of data from a data source circuitry for determining an acceptability of an effect of the retrieved at least a portion of the data at least in part via a virtual machine representation of at least a part of an end user s real machine having one or more end user specified preferences and circuitry for providing at least one data display option to the end user s real machine based on the determining acceptability of the effect of the retrieved at least a portion of the data. In addition to the foregoing other system aspects are described in the claims drawings and text forming a part of the present disclosure.

The foregoing summary is illustrative only and is not intended to be in any way limiting. In addition to the illustrative aspects embodiments and features described above further aspects embodiments and features will become apparent by reference to the drawings and the following detailed description.

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof. In the drawings similar symbols typically identify similar components unless context dictates otherwise. The illustrative embodiments described in the detailed description drawings and claims are not meant to be limiting. Other embodiments may be utilized and other changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the subject matter presented here.

Referring to a system related to looking ahead for data is illustrated. The system may include a data retriever engine an Effect of data acceptability determination engine and a data provider engine . Effect of data acceptability determination engine may include a virtual machine module including one or more virtual machines and or further including a database examination engine a data traverser engine and a local data examination engine and a user preference database . Data provider engine may include a data modification engine that may further include a data obfuscation engine and a data anonymization engine . Data provider engine may also include a data redirection engine .

As noted in some instances system may traverse e.g. view links of data via one or virtual machine representations of at least a part of real machine . Accordingly shows virtual machine encompassing a virtual machine representation of real machine e.g. one or more states of one or more components associated with real machine post activation of Link . depicts virtual machine at least partly running on core of a multi core processor. Virtual machine module of Effect of data acceptability determination engine may be illustrated to include virtual machine .

As noted in some instances system may traverse links of data via one or more virtual machine representations of at least a part of real machine . Accordingly shows virtual machine encompassing a virtual machine representation of real machine post activation of Link e.g. representative of one or more states of one or more hardware software firmware components of resident within real machine . The foregoing constitutes one example of how system may use virtual machine to traverse Link e.g. download a media player as requested by activation of Link . Virtual machine module of Effect of data acceptability determination engine may include virtual machine . further illustrates virtual machine may include a virtual machine representation of the content e.g. a markup language of the real machine post activation of Link a virtual machine representation of the software e.g. Unix of the real machine post activation of Link a virtual machine representation of the hardware e.g. a hard disk of the real machine post activation of Link and a virtual machine representation of the operating system e.g. Solaris Operating System of the real machine post activation of Link . shows that virtual machine may be run on core of a multi core processor.

Upon traversal of links and by virtual machines and or respectively each of virtual machines and or may determine whether an effect of the retrieved data is acceptable to a user based on a user s preferences. Virtual machines and or may compare the traversed data to one or more user preferences stored in a user preference database . User preference database information may be communicated to virtual machine module and a copy of at least a portion of user preference database may be spawned e.g. generated on each of virtual machines and or . Virtual machines and or may communicate the results of a respective comparison of activation of a link e.g. loading at least a portion of a link s content onto a virtual machine and or to a user preference e.g. a preference not to load malware onto a user s real machine to virtual machine module . Virtual machine module may communicate the results of a comparison of activation of a link to a user preference to Effect of data acceptability determination engine . Effect of data acceptability determination engine may communicate the comparison to the data provider engine . The data provider engine may then provide the results e.g. one or more weblinks approved for viewing to a real machine e.g. a computing device with or without associated peripherals that may be viewable to a user on a display.

In some instances system may use additional virtual machine representations of at least a part of real machine to prospectively traverse Link Link and Link . Accordingly illustrates system generating virtual machine representations of real machine used to traverse Links and in the context of virtual machines and respectively. Those skilled in the art will thus appreciate that in the example shown in system is creating second order virtual machine representations to prospectively investigate the effects on the states of various components of real machine via sequential traversals of links. That is the virtual machine representations of real machine encompassed in virtual machine virtual machine and virtual machine of are generated by system based on the first order virtual machine representation of virtual machine as shown described in relation to .

Upon traversal of links and by virtual machines and respectively each of virtual machines and may determine whether an effect of the retrieved data is acceptable to a user based on a user s preferences. Virtual machines and may compare the traversed data to one or more user preferences stored in a user preference database . As previously described user preference database information may be communicated to virtual machine module and a copy of at least a portion of user preference database may be spawned e.g. generated on each of virtual machines and or . Virtual machine may then communicate user preference database information e.g. a preference to prevent installation of shareware onto an end user s real machine to each of virtual machines and and a copy of a user preference database may be spawned on each of virtual machines and . Virtual machines and may communicate the results of a respective comparison of an activation of a link e.g. loading at least a portion of a link s content onto a virtual machine and or to a user preference e.g. a preference to prevent installation of a rootkit onto a user s real machine to virtual machine . Virtual machine may communicate the results of a comparison to virtual machine module . Virtual machine module may communicate the results of a comparison of an activation of a link to a user preference to effect of data acceptability determination engine . Effect of data acceptability determination engine may communicate the comparison to the data provider engine . The data provider engine may then provide the results e.g. one or more weblinks approved for viewing to a real machine e.g. an end user s computing device with or without associated peripherals that may be viewable to a user on a display.

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that system may generate as many virtual machines as necessary to traverse individual links of interest and that the examples herein are used for sake of clarity. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that examples used herein are meant to be indicative of the fact that system can run in whole or in part on proximate single or multi core machines and or distal single or multi core machines on distributed computing systems e.g. GRID or clustered on local computing systems or hosted computing systems etc.

As noted in some instances real machine may also include at least a portion of one or more peripheral devices connected connectable e.g. via wired waveguide or wireless connections to real machine . Peripheral devices may include one or more printers one or more fax machines one or more peripheral memory devices e.g. flash drive memory stick one or more network adapters e.g. wired or wireless network adapters one or more music players one or more cellular telephones one or more data acquisition devices e.g. robots and or one or more device actuators e.g. an hydraulic arm a radiation emitter or any other component s of industrial medical systems .

After a start operation the operational flow moves to an operation . Operation depicts retrieving at least a portion of data from a data source e.g. a computer accessible from the internet . For example shows a data retriever engine . Data retriever engine may retrieve e.g. download data e.g. a web page from a data source such as a computer accessible from the internet. For example data retriever engine may set a URL and add a querystring value to the URL. Data retriever engine may then make a request to the URL and scan the response received from the URL. Data may be a web site or web page containing one or more links to additional web sites such as shown for example in and or . Data may in some instances be textual a two dimensional or three dimensional image audible or video representations which in some instances may entail programming code such as html javascript C C or any other programming code capable of producing text visual images audio content video content or any combination of text visual images audible content and video content.

Then operation depicts determining an acceptability of an effect of the retrieved at least a portion of the data at least in part via a virtual machine representation of at least a part of an end user s real machine having one or more end user specified preferences. Continuing the example above illustrates an Effect of data acceptability determination engine . Effect of data acceptability determination engine may receive data from data retriever engine . Effect of data acceptability determination engine may utilize for example virtual machine spawned by virtual machine module to determine whether data associated with Link would result in a change in the operating system of real machine contra to a user preference regarding the operating system as stored in the user preference database .

Then operation depicts providing at least one data display option to the end user s real machine based on the determining acceptability of the effect of the retrieved at least a portion of the data. illustrates a data provider engine . Data provider engine may be in communication with Effect of data acceptability determination engine which may receive data from data retriever engine . Effect of data acceptability determination engine may transfer at least an effect of data acceptability determination to the data provider engine to provide at least one data display option. In one example data provider engine provides data via placing the data on a visual display where the data is such that it meets one or more thresholds associated with the effect of data acceptability determination. Provided data may be a list of web links a web page or other data e.g. text video audio that either have been deemed acceptable by Effect of data acceptability determination engine or that have been modified e.g. obfuscated such as by data modification engine such that the to be displayed data is determined to be acceptable under user preferences. Display option may include providing a visual display of the data e.g. displaying text playing a video etc. providing an audible presentation of the data e.g. playing an audio file providing a mixed media display of the data e.g. playing a video and an associated audio file and so on. Provided data may be modified via the data modification engine . For instance provided data may be obfuscated via the data obfuscation engine e.g. at least a portion of the displayed data may be blurred out or disabled or provided data may be anonymized via the data anonymization engine e.g. at least a portion of the data may be deleted entirely . Data provider engine may receive at least one display instruction e.g. OK to display links and 2 from at least one component of Effect of data acceptability determination engine for at least a portion of data to be displayed. For instance each of virtual machines and or may include one or more instruction generating modules configured to provide an instruction to the Effect of data acceptability determination engine after a comparison of an activation of a link to a user preference stored in a copy of the user preference database spawned on the virtual machines and or . Such instruction may include an instruction to the data provider engine to prevent the data provider engine from displaying data that may configure a hardware profile of real machine counter to anti viral settings stored in the user preference database or an instruction to the data provider engine to prevent the data provider engine from displaying data that may configure an operating system of real machine counter to a previous operating system of the real machine e.g. determine if a rootkit has been installed .

The operation illustrates determining an acceptability of an effect of the retrieved at least a portion of the data at least in part via a virtual machine representation of at least a part of an end user s real machine having one or more end user specified preferences by examining a database of known data for data information. Continuing the example above data retriever engine may retrieve data retrieved from a data source by the data retriever engine and communicate data to Effect of data acceptability engine which transfers data to the database examination engine . Database examination engine may be configured to examine a database of data provided for example by a data provider service or a database of data stored on a real machine and compare examined database data to the retrieved data . Effect of data acceptability determination engine may utilize format protocol information to determine whether database examination engine should call a specific database or library e.g. a Windows Media Player library to obtain file information. File information may be utilized to compare retrieved data to data stored in a library. For instance a database may include a list of links viewed by a user or pre approved by a user based on one or more user specified preferences such as links from a specific source of information e.g. the Roman Catholic Church and may provide an indication to the Effect of data acceptability engine that data is pre approved data.

The operation illustrates determining an acceptability of an effect of the retrieved at least a portion of the data at least in part via a virtual machine representation of at least a part of an end user s real machine having one or more end user specified preferences by traversing data in real time. Continuing the example above data retriever engine may retrieve data retrieved from a data source by the data retriever engine and communicate data to Effect of data acceptability engine which transfers data to the data traverser engine . Data traverser engine may traverse links of data . For instance data traverser engine may be configured to traverse e.g. scan the data to determine the content of the data e.g. text images video files . Accordingly shows virtual machine encompassing a virtual machine representation of real machine post activation of Link e.g. representative of one or more states of one or more hardware software firmware components of resident within real machine . Data traversal may occur in real time e.g. simultaneously as data is loading . Upon traversal of at least a portion of Link by the data traverser engine Effect of data acceptability determination engine may determine whether an effect of the retrieved data is acceptable to a user based on a user s preferences by comparing the traversed data to one or more user preferences stored in a user preference database .

The operation illustrates determining an acceptability of an effect of the retrieved at least a portion of the data at least in part via a virtual machine representation of at least a part of an end user s real machine having one or more end user specified preferences by locally examining data. For instance continuing the example above Effect of data acceptability engine may receive data retrieved from a data source e.g. a computer accessible through the internet by the data retriever engine and communicate data to a local data examination engine of virtual machine . Local data examination engine may extract data content information from at least a portion of the data. Local data examination engine may locally e.g. on the real machine examine e.g. analyze at least a portion of the data e.g. one or more pointers in the data to determine data content e.g. an audio file is a .wav file . For instance local data examination engine may view an amount of html source code to locate markers signifying the format of at least a portion of data content. The local examination engine may examine the data on the real machine at the location of the real machine e.g. executed on a subsystem within an end user s real machine to determine data content e.g. a downloadable software program .

The operation illustrates determining an acceptability of an effect of the retrieved at least a portion of the data at least in part via a virtual machine representation of at least a part of an end user s real machine having one or more end user specified preferences by examining data to locate references to additional data. Continuing the example above shows the Effect of data acceptability determination engine . Effect of data acceptability determination engine may receive data from data retriever engine . further illustrates the Effect of data acceptability determination engine further including a virtual machine module and a user preference database . Effect of data acceptability determination engine may transfer the data to the virtual machine module . Virtual machine module may spawn at least one virtual machine and or and transfer the data to at least one of virtual machines and or further including data traverser engine and local data examination engine . At least one of virtual machines and or may utilize at least one of data traverser engine and local data examination engine to examine e.g. scan at least a portion of data e.g. an imbedded link on a webpage to determine if the data references additional data e.g. one or more additional links . Additional data may be a web page comprising text and or an image a link to a web page a video or any combination of text images links to web pages or videos. Virtual machines and or may traverse additional data to determine an acceptability of an effect of the data. Effect of data acceptability determination may be communicated to Effect of data acceptability determination engine that may communicate an effect of data acceptability determination to a data provider engine .

The operation illustrates determining an acceptability of an effect of the retrieved at least a portion of the data at least in part via a virtual machine representation of at least a part of an end user s real machine having one or more end user specified preferences by determining whether data references additional data when loading. Continuing the example above illustrates the Effect of data acceptability determination engine further including a virtual machine module and a user preference database . Effect of data acceptability determination engine may transfer retrieved data to the virtual machine module . Virtual machine module may spawn at least one virtual machine and or and transfer the data to at least one of virtual machines and or further including data traverser engine and local data examination engine . At least one of virtual machines and or may utilize at least one of data traverser engine and local data examination engine to examine retrieved data in real time as it loads. For instance if a link to a webpage immediately e.g. as soon as the link is activated references an additional link e.g. to redirect a user a virtual machine and or may determine that such a reference to an additional link e.g. a pop up selectable URL has been made. Virtual machines and or may determine whether data references additional data at any time when the data is loading. Effect of data acceptability determination engine may communicate an effect of data acceptability determination to a data provider engine .

The operation illustrates determining an acceptability of an effect of the retrieved at least a portion of the data at least in part via a virtual machine representation of at least a part of an end user s real machine having one or more end user specified preferences by issuing a request to a remote computer for additional data information. Continuing the example above illustrates the Effect of data acceptability determination engine further including a virtual machine module and a user preference database . Effect of data acceptability determination engine may transfer retrieved data to the virtual machine module . Virtual machine module may spawn at least one virtual machine and or and transfer the data to at least one of virtual machines and or further including data traverser engine and local data examination engine . At least one of virtual machines and or may utilize at least one of data traverser engine and local data examination engine to examine data of an additional link or links and issue a request to receive additional data information from the remote computer or remote system e.g. a computer at a geographically distinct location . System may include any number of communication modules not shown configured to communicate over local or remote communication channels to the remote server or remote system.

The operation illustrates determining an acceptability of an effect of the retrieved at least a portion of the data at least in part via a virtual machine representation of at least a part of an end user s real machine having one or more end user specified preferences by examining a copy of data from a location geographically distinct from a location of the retrieved at least a portion of the data. Continuing the example above Effect of data acceptability determination engine may transfer retrieved data to the virtual machine module . illustrates the Effect of data acceptability determination engine further including a virtual machine module and a user preference database . Virtual machine module may spawn at least one virtual machine and or and transfer the data to at least one of virtual machines and or to issue a request to a remote computer to examine additional data information at the remote location e.g. a remote server farm . System may include any number of communication modules not shown configured to communicate over local or remote communication channels to the remote server or remote system.

The operation illustrates generating a substantial duplicate of at least a part of an end user s real machine at a location geographically distinct from a location of the retrieved at least a portion of the data. Continuing the example above a virtual machine and or of the real machine may be located at a geographically distinct location such as a remote server or a remote system configured duplicate data from the real machine and to receive and examine real machine information transferred to the remote server or remote system. In one embodiment generating a substantial duplicate of at least a part of an end user s real machine at a location geographically distinct from a location of the retrieved at least a portion of the data may include a remote server or remote system gathering parameters of an end user s real machine to assist in generating a virtual duplicate of the end user s real machine at the remote server or remote system e.g. hosted on running on or being implemented on the remote server or remote system .

The operation illustrates determining an acceptability of an effect of the retrieved at least a portion of the data at least in part via a virtual machine representation of a substantial portion of an end user s real machine having one or more end user specified preferences. Continuing the example above illustrates virtual machines and including a virtual machine representation of content of the real machine software of the real machine hardware of the real machine and an operating system of the real machine . Virtual machines and or may include most or all of at least one of the content of the real machine e.g. a substantial portion of the text image audio and video files of the real machine software of the real machine e.g. a substantial portion of any program or suite of programs installed on the real machine hardware of the real machine a substantial portion of the circuitry comprising the real machine and or an operating system of the real machine e.g. a substantial portion of a Windows operating system installed on the real machine .

The operation illustrates determining an acceptability of an effect of data at least in part via a virtual machine representation operating at a location of the retrieved at least a portion of the data. Continuing the example above Effect of data acceptability determination engine may transfer retrieved data to the virtual machine module . illustrates the Effect of data acceptability determination engine further including a virtual machine module and a user preference database . Virtual machine module includes virtual machines and or . further illustrates the Effect of data acceptability determination engine further including a virtual machine module and a user preference database . Virtual machine module may spawn at least one virtual machine and or and transfer the data to at least one of virtual machines and or . In one implementation all or part of virtual machines and or may be generated on the real machine e.g. as a subsystem of real machine . For instance all or part of virtual machines and or may be generated on a disk a memory chip a core of a multi core processor etc. of an end user s real machine.

The operation illustrates determining an acceptability of an effect of the retrieved at least a portion of the data on at least two virtual machine representations of at least a part of an end user s real machine having one or more end user specified preferences. Continuing the example above shows the Effect of data acceptability determination engine . Effect of data acceptability determination engine may receive data from data retriever engine . further illustrates the Effect of data acceptability determination engine further including a virtual machine module and a user preference database . Effect of data acceptability determination engine may transfer the data to the virtual machine module . Virtual machine module may spawn at least two virtual machines and or and transfer the data to at least one of virtual machines and or . shows virtual machines and encompassing a virtual machine representation of real machine post e.g. subsequent to activation of Link Link and Link respectively e.g. as at least a part of real machine would exist had Link Link and or Link actually been traversed on real machine . further depicts virtual machines and or including a virtual machine representation of content of the real machine post activation of Link Link and or Link respectively. Examples of such content include a movie music file a script e.g. Java script or Active X control a markup language an email etc. downloaded onto real machine from one or more sources associated with activation traversal of Link Link and or Link . An example of determining an acceptability of an effect of the data at least in part via at least two virtual machine representations of at least a part of an end user s real machine may include determining an acceptability of an effect of the data at least in part via a virtual machine representation of at least a portion of the content of the real machine and a virtual machine representation of at least a portion of hardware of the real machine for example the state of virtual machine and the state of virtual machine after loading at least a portion of the data contained in Link .

The operation illustrates determining an acceptability of an effect of the retrieved at least a portion of the data on at least two virtual machine representations of at least a part of an end user s real machine having one or more end user specified preferences at least one of the at least two virtual machine representations operating on a separate core of a system comprising at least two cores. Continuing the example above shows the Effect of data acceptability determination engine . Effect of data acceptability determination engine may receive data from data retriever engine . further illustrates the Effect of data acceptability determination engine further including a virtual machine module and a user preference database . Effect of data acceptability determination engine may transfer the data to the virtual machine module . Virtual machine module may spawn at least one virtual machine and or and transfer the data to at least one of virtual machines and or . As illustrated in each of virtual machine virtual machine virtual machine virtual machine virtual machine and virtual machine may operate on an individual core respectively of a multi core processor or virtual machine may run on one core and virtual machines may run on the other core of a dual core processor such as an Intel dual core processor and so on. The multi core processor may include a plurality of processor cores packaged in one processor package. The term core as used herein may refer for example to a single processor of a multiprocessor system or to a processor core of a multi core processor. Multi core processor may be utilized as portable computers such as laptop computers personal digital assistants or desktop computers or servers or another form of processor based system. Combinations of these types of platforms may be present. The multi core system may include a multi core processor each core comprising a separate address space and having internal to that address space.

The operation illustrates determining an acceptability of an effect of the retrieved at least a portion of the data on at least two virtual machine representations of at least a part of an end user s real machine having one or more end user specified preferences. Continuing the example above shows the Effect of data acceptability determination engine . Effect of data acceptability determination engine may receive data from data retriever engine . further illustrates the Effect of data acceptability determination engine further including a virtual machine module and a user preference database . Effect of data acceptability determination engine may transfer the data to the virtual machine module . Virtual machine module may spawn at least one virtual machine and or and transfer the data to at least two of virtual machines and or . At least one of virtual machines and or may operate on a separate operating system at a location of the data e.g. executed on a subsystem such as the virtual machine module FIG. A including a plurality of virtual machines and or within the real machine .

The operation illustrates determining an acceptability of an effect of the retrieved at least a portion of the data on at least two virtual machine representations of at least a part of an end user s real machine having one or more end user specified preferences at least one of the at least two virtual machine representations operating on a separate operating system at a location of the retrieved at least a portion of the data. Continuing the example above shows the Effect of data acceptability determination engine . Effect of data acceptability determination engine may receive data from data retriever engine . further illustrates the Effect of data acceptability determination engine further including a virtual machine module and a user preference database . Effect of data acceptability determination engine may transfer the data to the virtual machine module . Virtual machine module may spawn at least one virtual machine and or and transfer the data to at least one of virtual machines and or . further illustrates virtual machines . In one implementation any of virtual machines may be generated on the real machine e.g. as a subsystem of real machine .

The operation illustrates determining an acceptability of an effect of the retrieved at least a portion of the data on at least two virtual machine representations of at least a part of an end user s real machine having one or more end user specified preferences at least one of the at least two virtual machine representations operating on a separate operating system at a location geographically distinct from a location of the retrieved at least a portion of the data. Continuing the example above shows the Effect of data acceptability determination engine . Effect of data acceptability determination engine may receive data from data retriever engine . further illustrates the Effect of data acceptability determination engine further including a virtual machine module and a user preference database . Effect of data acceptability determination engine may transfer the data to the virtual machine module . Virtual machine module may spawn at least one virtual machine and or and transfer the data to at least one of virtual machines and or . At least one virtual machine for example virtual machine may be virtual machines operating at geographically distinct location such as a remote server or a remote system configured to receive and examine real machine information transferred to the remote system and duplicate data from the real machine . In some instances each virtual machine may be generated on one or more separate cores of a multi core processor. In another embodiment determining an acceptability of an effect of the retrieved at least a portion of the data on at least two virtual machine representations of at least a part of an end user s real machine having one or more end user specified preferences at least one of the at least two virtual machine representations operating on a separate operating system at a location geographically distinct from a location of the retrieved at least a portion of the data may include gathering parameters of an end user s real machine to assist in generating a virtual duplicate of the end user s real machine at a remote location such as a remote server or remote computing system e.g. hosted on running on or being implemented on the remote server or remote system .

The operation illustrates determining a state change of a virtual machine representation between a prior state and a subsequent state of the virtual machine representation after loading at least a portion of data. Continuing the example above shows the Effect of data acceptability determination engine . Effect of data acceptability determination engine may receive data from data retriever engine . further illustrates the Effect of data acceptability determination engine further including a virtual machine module and a user preference database . Effect of data acceptability determination engine may transfer the data to the virtual machine module . Virtual machine module may spawn at least one virtual machine and or and transfer the data to at least one of virtual machines and or . A state change e.g. a decrease in memory of at least one of virtual machines and or may be determined by a component of at least one of virtual machines and or measuring a characteristic of the virtual machine representation of the content software hardware or operating system of the real machine before and after the at least a portion of data has loaded. For instance a state change may be measured after a search result containing a plurality of web links has loaded and at least one web link has been activated.

The operation illustrates determining a state of a virtual machine representation prior to loading at least a portion of data. Continuing the example above shows the Effect of data acceptability determination engine . Effect of data acceptability determination engine may receive data from data retriever engine . further illustrates the Effect of data acceptability determination engine further including a virtual machine module and a user preference database . Effect of data acceptability determination engine may transfer the data to the virtual machine module . Virtual machine module may spawn at least one virtual machine and or and transfer the data to at least one of virtual machines and or . At least one of virtual machines and or may determine a state of at least one component e.g. the hardware of the virtual machine prior to activation e.g. before of a link. Virtual machine state may be representative of a state for all or at least a portion of the components e.g. content software hardware operating system of the real machine represented by the virtual machine and or . For instance at least one of virtual machines and or may be determined to be free of viruses an amount of virtual machine memory may be measured or a processing speed of at least one of virtual machines and or may be determined. At least one of virtual machines and or may contain a diagnostic application configured to analyze virtual machine performance and contents.

The operation illustrates determining a state of a virtual machine representation after loading at least a portion of data. Continuing the example above shows the Effect of data acceptability determination engine . Effect of data acceptability determination engine may receive data from data retriever engine . further illustrates the Effect of data acceptability determination engine further including a virtual machine module and a user preference database . Effect of data acceptability determination engine may transfer the data to the virtual machine module . Virtual machine module may spawn at least one virtual machine and or and transfer the data to at least one of virtual machines and or . At least one of virtual machines and or may determine a state of at least one component e.g. the hardware of the virtual machine subsequent to e.g. after activation of a link. For instance a virtual machine state may be representative of a state for all characteristics of the real machine content software hardware or operating system represented by at least one of virtual machines and or after at least a portion of the data has loaded. For instance at least one of virtual machines and or may be determined to contain a virus an amount of virtual machine memory may be measured or a processing speed of at least one of virtual machines and or may be determined. At least one of virtual machines and or may be examined to determine for example if a virus or any other undesired software is present on the machine after at least a portion of the data has loaded by examining the virtual machine representation of the operating system of the real machine or if information from the real machine has been transferred to an external location by examining the software of the real machine .

The operation illustrates determining whether the state change is an undesirable state change based on one or more end user specified preferences. Continuing the example above shows the Effect of data acceptability determination engine . Effect of data acceptability determination engine may receive data from data retriever engine . further illustrates the Effect of data acceptability determination engine further including a virtual machine module and a user preference database . Effect of data acceptability determination engine may transfer the data to the virtual machine module . Virtual machine module may spawn at least one virtual machine and or and transfer the data to at least one of virtual machines and or . An undesirable state change may be determined by examining the changes to at least one of virtual machines and or and comparing the state change of at least one of virtual machines and or to user preference database information spawned on at least one of virtual machines and or by a transfer of user preference database information from the user preference database to the virtual machine module which spawns a copy of at least a portion of the user preference database onto at least one of virtual machines and or . An undesirable state change may include any undesirable state change including but not limited to a decrease in memory or processing speed and or the presence of a virus or other undesirable software after at least a portion of the data has loaded. Undesirable state changes may further include an undesirable transfer of information located on at least one of virtual machines and or to an external location an undesirable transfer of data onto at least one of virtual machines and or from an external location after at least a portion of the data has loaded on at least one of virtual machines and or that may result in an undesired change in the state of content software hardware or an operating system of the real machine and or an undesirable transfer of data onto at least one of virtual machines and or where at least a portion of the transferred data may be found objectionable when viewed by a user .

The operation illustrates determining an acceptability of an effect of the retrieved at least a portion of the data at least in part via a virtual machine representation of at least a part of an end user s real machine having one or more end user specified preferences within an acceptable amount of user interface time. Continuing the example above illustrates an Effect of data acceptability determination engine . Effect of data acceptability determination engine may receive data from data retriever engine . Effect of data acceptability determination engine may utilize for example virtual machine spawned by virtual machine module to determine whether data associated with Link would result in a change in the operating system of real machine contra to a user preference regarding the operating system as stored in the user preference database . Effect of data acceptability determination may be determined within an acceptable amount of user interface time e.g. a tolerable wait time for information retrieval . An acceptable amount of user interface time may be within a range from an amount of time approximating an instantaneous effect of data acceptability determination to an amount of time approximating a maximum time a user may be willing to wait for a result before abandoning a data retrieval e.g. a downloading webpage .

The operation illustrates determining an acceptability of an effect of the retrieved at least a portion of the data at least in part via a virtual machine representation of at least a part of an end user s real machine having one or more end user specified preferences in approximately one tenth of a second. Continuing the example above Effect of data acceptability determination engine may utilize for example virtual machine spawned by virtual machine module to determine whether data associated with Link would result in a change in the operating system of real machine contra to a user preference regarding the operating system as stored in the user preference database . A user interface time of approximately one tenth of a second may approximate an acceptable amount elapsed time for a user to feel that the Effect of data acceptability determination engine is reacting instantaneously.

The operation illustrates determining an acceptability of an effect of the retrieved at least a portion of the data at least in part via a virtual machine representation of at least a part of an end user s real machine having one or more end user specified preferences in less than approximately 1 second. Continuing the example above Effect of data acceptability determination engine may utilize for example virtual machine spawned by virtual machine module to determine whether data associated with Link would result in a change in the operating system of real machine contra to a user preference regarding the operating system as stored in the user preference database . A user interface time of less than approximately one second may approximate an acceptable amount elapsed time for a user to notice a delay in the Effect of data acceptability determination without abandoning the information retrieval.

The operation illustrates determining an acceptability of an effect of the retrieved at least a portion of the data in response to at least one user setting. Continuing the example above shows the Effect of data acceptability determination engine . Effect of data acceptability determination engine may receive data from data retriever engine . further illustrates the Effect of data acceptability determination engine further including a virtual machine module and a user preference database . Effect of data acceptability determination engine may transfer the data to the virtual machine module . Virtual machine module may spawn at least one virtual machine and or and transfer the data to at least one of virtual machines and or . An acceptability of an effect of the data may be determined by determining if a state change to at least one of virtual machines and or has occurred and comparing the state change of at least one of virtual machines and or to user preference database information spawned on at least one of virtual machines and or . Comparison may be made for example by transferring user preference database information from the user preference database to the virtual machine module which spawns a copy of at least a portion of the user preference database onto at least one of virtual machines and or . User preference database may include at least one end user specified preference relating to at least one of content software hardware and or an operating system of a real machine . At least one of virtual machines and or may determine an acceptability of an effect of the data based on at least one user setting contained in a user preference database at least a portion of which may be spawned onto at least one of virtual machines and or via virtual machine module e.g. does a website contain only images text audio or visual data suitable for viewing by a user based on a setting established by a user such as a political or cultural preference setting . Further examples of user preferences include specific religion or lifestyle preference such as return only links relating to Roman Catholicism or return only links relating to a vegan lifestyle that may be stored in the real machine . User specific preference may also relate to user information safety or computer safety such as do not display links requesting information from my computer or do not display links that transfer viruses onto my computer. 

The operation illustrates determining an acceptability of an effect of the retrieved at least a portion of the data in response to a personal user setting. Continuing the example above shows the Effect of data acceptability determination engine . Effect of data acceptability determination engine may receive data from data retriever engine . further illustrates the Effect of data acceptability determination engine further including a virtual machine module and a user preference database . Effect of data acceptability determination engine may transfer the data to the virtual machine module . Virtual machine module may spawn at least one virtual machine and or and transfer the data to at least one of virtual machines and or . User preference database information stored in the user preference database may be transferred to the virtual machine module which spawns a copy of at least a portion of the user preference database onto at least one of virtual machines and or . At least one of virtual machines and or may compare the data received from the virtual machine module to a personal user setting e.g. show only automobile related data contained in user preference database information spawned on at least one of virtual machines and or . User preference database may include at least one personal user setting relating to at least one of content software hardware and or an operating system of a real machine . Personal user setting may be a setting input by a user that is personal to the user such as an information security level a content filter level or a personal desirability setting such as show only non religious data or show only automobile related data. 

The operation illustrates determining an acceptability of an effect of the retrieved at least a portion of the data in response to a peer user setting. Continuing the example above user preference database may include at least one peer user setting relating to at least one of content software hardware and or an operating system of an end user s real machine . Peer user setting may be a setting input by a user that is determined by a peer group such as a peer group determined information security level such as display only 100 percent secure websites a peer group determined data filter level such as filter 100 of obscene data or a peer group desirability setting such as show only classical music related data or show only knitting related data. 

The operation illustrates determining an acceptability of an effect of the retrieved at least a portion of the data in response to a work safety user setting. Continuing the example above at least one of virtual machines and or may compare the data received from the virtual machine module to a work safety user setting contained in user preference database information spawned on at least one of virtual machines and or . User preference database may include at least one work safety user setting relating to at least one of content software hardware and or an operating system of an end user s real machine . Thus in one specific example a webpage or website data may be determined to be displayable if the data satisfies a work safety user setting such as a corporate information security level corporate user setting or a corporate information content filter level corporate user setting.

The operation illustrates determining an acceptability of an effect of the retrieved at least a portion of the data in response to a religious desirability setting. Continuing the example above at least one of virtual machines and or may compare the data received from the virtual machine module to a religious desirability setting e.g. does a website contain only images text audio or visual data suitable for viewing by a user based on a religious desirability setting established by a user such as a desire to view only Hindu material contained in user preference database information spawned on at least one of virtual machines and or . A religious desirability setting may be include any setting regarding a major minor or other religion such as Christianity Judaism Islam Hinduism and so on.

The operation illustrates determining an acceptability of an effect of the retrieved at least a portion of the data in response to a political desirability setting. Continuing the example above at least one of virtual machines and or may compare the data received from the virtual machine module to a political desirability setting e.g. does a website contain only images text audio or visual data suitable for viewing by a user based on a political desirability setting established by a user such as a desire to view only Democratic Party material contained in user preference database information spawned on at least one of virtual machines and or . A political desirability setting may include any setting regarding a political party or affiliation e.g. Republican Democratic Libertarian Green Party etc. .

The operation illustrates determining an acceptability of an effect of the retrieved at least a portion of the data in response to a theme related desirability setting. Continuing the example above at least one of virtual machines and or may compare the data received from the virtual machine module to a theme related desirability setting e.g. does a website contain only images text audio or visual data suitable for viewing by a user based on a theme related desirability setting established by a user such as a desire to view only materials regarding collectible stamps contained in user preference database information spawned on at least one of virtual machines and or . A theme related desirability setting may include any theme related information such as information relating to cars fashion electronics sports hobbies collector s items or any theme or category that may be of interest to a user.

The operation illustrates determining an acceptability of an effect of the retrieved at least a portion of the data in response to at least one privacy related setting. Continuing the example above at least one of virtual machines and or may compare the data received from the virtual machine module to a privacy related setting e.g. does a website contain only images text audio or visual data suitable for viewing by a user based on a privacy related setting established by a user contained in user preference database information spawned on at least one of virtual machines and or . A privacy related setting may include any privacy related settings e.g. does a website contain only data that will not request information from my computer or allow others to view personal information saved on my computer .

The operation illustrates determining an acceptability of an effect of the retrieved at least a portion of the data in response to a user specific privacy related setting. Continuing the example above at least one of virtual machines and or may compare the data received from the virtual machine module to a user specific privacy related setting e.g. will a website request specific information about the user such as name address telephone number contained in user preference database information spawned on at least one of virtual machines and or . A user specific privacy related setting may include any user specific privacy related settings e.g. a setting relating to a user s biographical information or financial information .

The operation illustrates determining an acceptability of an effect of the retrieved at least a portion of the data in response to a group privacy related setting. Continuing the example above at least one of virtual machines and or may compare the data received from the virtual machine module to a group privacy related setting e.g. will a website request information about an organization such as name address telephone number contained in user preference database information spawned on at least one of virtual machines and or . A group privacy related setting may include any group privacy related settings e.g. a setting relating to a group s membership . Group privacy related setting may be any setting established by a group such as a work group e.g. employees of a company a peer group e.g. members of a book club or a family group e.g. members of family unit privacy related setting.

The operation illustrates determining an acceptability of an effect of the retrieved at least a portion of the data in response to a type of transmitted user information. Continuing the example above at least one of virtual machines and or may compare the data received from the virtual machine module to at least one acceptable type of transmitted user information setting e.g. do not return links that will transmit my e mail address home address or telephone number to an external location contained in user preference database information spawned on at least one of virtual machines and or . Acceptable type of transmitted user information setting may be determined by a user . For instance acceptability of the effect of the data may be determined in response to whether or not private user information such as credit card numbers bank accounts personal identification information or any other personal user information may be transmitted to a location external to the real machine by selecting the link.

The operation illustrates determining an acceptability of an effect of the retrieved at least a portion of the data in response to a type of exposed user information. Continuing the example above at least one of virtual machines and or may compare the data received from the virtual machine module to at least one acceptable type of exposed user information setting e.g. do not return links that will expose personal financial information stored on the real machine contained in user preference database information spawned on at least one of virtual machines and or . Acceptable types of exposed user information settings may be determined by a user . For instance acceptability of the effect of the data may be determined in response to whether or not private user information such as credit card numbers bank accounts personal identification information or any other personal user information may be exposed to a machine located at a location external to the real machine by selecting the link.

The operation illustrates determining an acceptability of an effect of the retrieved at least a portion of the data in response to visually examining a data image. Continuing the example above shows the Effect of data acceptability determination engine . Effect of data acceptability determination engine may receive data from data retriever engine . further illustrates the Effect of data acceptability determination engine further including a virtual machine module and a user preference database . Effect of data acceptability determination engine may transfer the data to the virtual machine module . Virtual machine module may spawn at least one virtual machine and or and transfer the data to at least one of virtual machines and or . To visually examine a data image at least one of virtual machines and or may include an image scanning module. In one embodiment visually examining a data image may include computer implemented image analysis such as color analysis pattern matching pattern recognition or any other technique for recognizing a particular image or type of image.

The operation illustrates determining an acceptability of an effect of the retrieved at least a portion of the data at least in part via a virtual machine representation of at least a portion of content of an end user s real machine having one or more end user specified preferences. Continuing the example above shows the Effect of data acceptability determination engine . Effect of data acceptability determination engine may receive data from data retriever engine . further illustrates the Effect of data acceptability determination engine further including a virtual machine module and a user preference database . Effect of data acceptability determination engine may transfer the data to the virtual machine module . Virtual machine module may spawn at least one virtual machine and or and transfer the data to at least one of virtual machines and or . shows virtual machines and encompassing a virtual machine representation of real machine post e.g. subsequent to activation of Link Link and Link respectively e.g. as at least a part of real machine would exist had Link Link and or Link actually been traversed on real machine . further depicts virtual machines and including a virtual machine representation of content of the real machine post activation of Link Link and or Link respectively. Examples of such content include a movie music file a script e.g. Java script or Active X control a markup language an email etc. downloaded onto real machine from one or more sources associated with activation traversal of Link Link and or Link . An example of determining an acceptability of an effect of the data at least in part via a virtual machine representation may include determining an acceptability of an effect of the data at least in part via a virtual machine representation of at least a portion of the content of the real machine include determining whether or not a video or image has been loaded onto for example the virtual machine after loading at least a portion of the data contained in Link .

The operation illustrates determining an acceptability of an effect of the retrieved at least a portion of the data at least in part via a virtual machine representation of at least a portion of software of an end user s real machine having one or more end user specified preferences. Continuing the example above shows the Effect of data acceptability determination engine . Effect of data acceptability determination engine may receive data from data retriever engine . further illustrates the Effect of data acceptability determination engine further including a virtual machine module and a user preference database . Effect of data acceptability determination engine may transfer the data to the virtual machine module . Virtual machine module may spawn at least one virtual machine and or and transfer the data to at least one of virtual machines and or . shows virtual machines and encompassing a virtual machine representation of real machine post e.g. subsequent to activation of Link Link and Link respectively e.g. as at least a part of real machine would exist had Link Link and or Link actually been traversed on real machine . illustrates virtual machine including a virtual machine representation of software e.g. a state of software such as a state of Windows Media Player of the real machine post e.g. subsequent to activation of Link . Examples of such software might include a commercial word processing program or suite of programs e.g. Microsoft Office for Windows an open source Web browser e.g. Mozilla s Firefox Browser an AJAX mash up e.g. an executing JavaScript and or data obtained by same via an XML like scheme a commercial database management system e.g. one or more of Oracle Corporation s various products a commercial anti malware spyware program e.g. such as those of Symantec Corporation or McAfee Inc. a multi media program e.g. QuickTime etc. An example of determining an acceptability of an effect of the data at least in part via a virtual machine representation may include determining an acceptability of an effect of the content of the data at least in part via a virtual machine representation of at least a portion of the software of the real machine include determining whether or not an unauthorized program or suite of programs e.g. music downloading software has been loaded for example onto virtual machine after loading at least a portion of the data contained in Link .

The operation illustrates determining an acceptability of an effect of the retrieved at least a portion of the data at least in part via a virtual machine representation of at least a portion of hardware of an end user s real machine having one or more end user specified preferences. Continuing the example above shows the Effect of data acceptability determination engine . Effect of data acceptability determination engine may receive data from data retriever engine . further illustrates the Effect of data acceptability determination engine further including a virtual machine module and a user preference database . Effect of data acceptability determination engine may transfer the data to the virtual machine module . Virtual machine module may spawn at least one virtual machine and or and transfer the data to at least one of virtual machines and or . illustrates virtual machine including a virtual machine representation of hardware e.g. a state of the hardware of the real machine post activation of Link . Examples of such hardware might include all or part of a chipset e.g. data processor and or graphics processor chipsets such as those of Intel Corporation and or NvidiaCorporation a memory chip e.g. flash memory and or random access memories such as those of Sandisk Corporation and or Samsung Electronics Co. LTD a data bus a hard disk e.g. such as those of Seagate Technology LLC a network adapter e.g. wireless and or wired LAN adapters such as those of Linksys and or CiscoTechnology Inc. printer a removable drive e.g. flash drive a cell phone etc. An example of determining an acceptability of an effect of the data at least in part via a virtual machine representation includes determining an acceptability of an effect of the data at least in part via a virtual machine representation of at least a portion of the hardware of the real machine includes determining whether a network adapter on for example virtual machine has been disabled after loading at least a portion of the data contained in Link .

The operation illustrates determining an acceptability of an effect of the retrieved at least a portion of the data at least in part via a virtual machine representation of at least a portion of an operating system of an end user s real machine having one or more end user specified preferences. Continuing the example above shows the Effect of data acceptability determination engine . Effect of data acceptability determination engine may receive data from data retriever engine . further illustrates the Effect of data acceptability determination engine further including a virtual machine module and a user preference database . Effect of data acceptability determination engine may transfer the data to the virtual machine module . Virtual machine module may spawn at least one virtual machine and or and transfer the data to at least one of virtual machines and or . shows virtual machines and encompassing a virtual machine representation of real machine post e.g. subsequent to activation of Link Link and Link respectively e.g. as at least a part of real machine would exist had link link and or link actually been traversed on real machine . illustrates virtual machine including a virtual machine representation of an operating system e.g. a state of an operating system and or network operating system of the real machine post activation of Link . Examples of such an operating system might include a computer operating system e.g. Microsoft Windows 2000. Unix Linux etc and or a network operating system e.g. the Internet Operating System available from Cisco Technology Inc. Netware available from Novell Inc. and or Solaris available from Sun Microsystems Inc. . An example of determining an acceptability of an effect of the data at least in part via a virtual machine representation includes determining an acceptability of an effect of the data at least in part via a virtual machine representation of at least a portion of an operating system of the real machine include determining whether a portion of the operating system e.g. Microsoft Vista on for example virtual machine has been disabled after loading at least a portion of the data contained in Link .

The operation illustrates determining an acceptability of an effect of the retrieved at least a portion of the data at least in part via a virtual machine representation of at least a portion of an end user s real machine having one or more end user specified preferences including at least a portion of a computing device. illustrates real machine including at least a part of a computing device . The computing device may be any device capable of processing one or more programming instructions. For example the computing device may be a desktop computer a laptop computer a notebook computer a mobile phone a personal digital assistant PDA combinations thereof and or other suitable computing devices.

The operation illustrates determining an acceptability of an effect of the retrieved at least a portion of the data at least in part via a virtual machine representation of at least a portion of an end user s real machine having one or more end user specified preferences including at least one peripheral device. Continuing the example above shows the Effect of data acceptability determination engine . Effect of data acceptability determination engine may receive data from data retriever engine . further illustrates the Effect of data acceptability determination engine further including a virtual machine module and a user preference database . Effect of data acceptability determination engine may transfer the data to the virtual machine module . Virtual machine module may spawn at least one virtual machine and or that may be a virtual machine representation of at least a part of real machine . Real machine may include at least one peripheral device. For instance illustrates real machine including at least one peripheral device . shows a representative view of an implementation of real machine e.g. a desktop notebook or other type computing system and or one or more peripheral devices in which all part of system may be implemented. illustrates that implementations of real machine may include all part of computing device and or all part of one or one or more peripherals associated computing device .

The operation illustrates determining an acceptability of an effect of the retrieved at least a portion of the data at least in part via a virtual machine representation of at least a portion of an end user s real machine having one or more end user specified preferences including at least one peripheral device including at least one peripheral device that is at least one of a printer a fax machine a peripheral memory device a network adapter a music player a cellular telephone a data acquisition device or a device actuator. Continuing the example above shows the Effect of data acceptability determination engine . Effect of data acceptability determination engine may receive data from data retriever engine . further illustrates the Effect of data acceptability determination engine further including a virtual machine module and a user preference database . Effect of data acceptability determination engine may transfer the data to the virtual machine module . Virtual machine module may spawn at least one of virtual machines and or that may be a virtual machine representation of at least a part of real machine . Real machine may include at least one peripheral device. For instance illustrates an end user s real machine may also include at least a portion of one or more peripheral devices connected connectable e.g. via wired waveguide or wireless connections to real machine . Peripheral devices may include one or more printers one or more fax machines one or more peripheral memory devices e.g. flash drive memory stick one or more network adapters e.g. wired or wireless network adapters one or more music players one or more cellular telephones one or more data acquisition devices e.g. robots and or one or more device actuators e.g. a computer controlled manufacturing device medical device an hydraulic arm a radiation emitter or any other component s of industrial medical systems .

The operation illustrates providing a data display option of displaying the retrieved at least a portion of the data. Continuing the example above data provider engine may be in communication with Effect of data acceptability determination engine which may receive data from data obtainer engine . Effect of data acceptability determination engine may transfer effect of data acceptability determination to the data provider engine to provide the data display option of displaying at least a portion of the data. For instance data provider engine may receive at least one display instruction e.g. OK to display the entire text of link from at least one component of Effect of data acceptability determination engine . At least one of virtual machines and or may include one or more instruction generating modules configured to provide an instruction to the Effect of data acceptability determination engine after a comparison of an activation of a link to a user preference stored in a copy of the user preference database spawned on the virtual machine and or . Effect of data acceptability determination engine may communicate the display instruction to the data provider engine . Data provider engine may then display the data. Displayed data may be an unmodified web page of text images and or video or a web page including links to additional web pages and may be displayed on an end user s real machine display such as a computer screen.

The operation illustrates providing a data display option of not displaying the retrieved at least a portion of the data. Continuing the example above data provider engine may be in communication with Effect of data acceptability determination engine which may receive data from data obtainer engine . Effect of data acceptability determination engine may transfer effect of data acceptability determination to the data provider engine to provide the data display option of not displaying at least a portion of the data. For instance data provider engine may receive at least one do not display instruction e.g. Do not display the text of link from at least one component of Effect of data acceptability determination engine . At least one of virtual machines and or may include one or more instruction generating modules configured to provide a do not display instruction to the Effect of data acceptability determination engine after a comparison of an activation of a link to a user preference stored in a copy of the user preference database spawned on the virtual machine and or . Effect of data acceptability determination engine may communicate the do not display instruction to the data provider engine . The data display option of not displaying the data may include a message indicated why the data is not being displayed or may be for example a blank page displayed on a display of the real machine.

The operation illustrates providing a data display option of displaying a modified version of the retrieved at least a portion of the data. Continuing the example above data provider engine may be in communication with Effect of data acceptability determination engine which may receive data from data obtainer engine . Effect of data acceptability determination engine may transfer effect of data acceptability determination to the data provider engine to provide the data display option of displaying at least a modified version of the data. For instance data provider engine may receive at least one modify data instruction e.g. display only lines 1 10 of the text of link from at least one component of Effect of data acceptability determination engine . At least one of virtual machines and or may include one or more instruction generating modules configured to provide a modify data instruction to the Effect of data acceptability determination engine after a comparison of an activation of a link to a user preference stored in a copy of the user preference database spawned on the virtual machine and or . Effect of data acceptability determination engine may communicate the modify data instruction to the data provider engine . The data provider engine may transmit the modify data instruction to the data modification engine for modification of the data. Data modification engine may transmit the modified data to the data provider engine . Data provider engine may then display the modified version of the data. Displayed data may be a modified web page of text a modified image and or a modified video or a modified web page including links to additional web pages. For instance a webpage or website may be displaying but any obscenities on the web page or website may replaced by non obscene word alternatives.

The operation illustrates providing a data display option of obfuscating an objectionable data portion. Continuing the example above data provider engine may be in communication with Effect of data acceptability determination engine which may receive data from data obtainer engine . Effect of data acceptability determination engine may transfer effect of data acceptability determination to the data provider engine to provide the data display option of obfuscating e.g. blurring a portion of the data e.g. obscene photos . For instance data provider engine may receive at least one obfuscate data instruction e.g. display only non obscene portions of the image in link from at least one component of Effect of data acceptability determination engine . At least one of virtual machines and or may include one or more instruction generating modules configured to provide an obfuscate data instruction to the Effect of data acceptability determination engine after a comparison of an activation of a link to a user preference stored in a copy of the user preference database spawned on the virtual machine and or . Effect of data acceptability determination engine may communicate the obfuscate data instruction to the data provider engine . The data provider engine may transmit the obfuscate data instruction to the data modification engine which may transmit the obfuscate data instruction to the data obfuscation engine . Data obfuscation engine may transmit the obfuscated data to the data modification engine for transmission to the data provider engine . Data provider engine may then display the obfuscated version of the data. For example obfuscating logic may obfuscate restricted data or imagery within a webpage or image. Obfuscation may include blurring or blocking of the objectionable data portion.

The operation illustrates providing a data display option of anonymizing an objectionable data portion. Continuing the example above data provider engine may be in communication with Effect of data acceptability determination engine which may receive data from data obtainer engine . Effect of data acceptability determination engine may transfer effect of data acceptability determination and an instruction to the data provider engine to provide the data display option of anonymizing e.g. obscuring source information for a portion of the data e.g. graphic videos . For instance data provider engine may receive at least one anonymize data instruction e.g. obscure source information for portions of the video in link from at least one component of Effect of data acceptability determination engine . At least one of virtual machines and or may include one or more instruction generating modules configured to provide an anonymize data instruction to the Effect of data acceptability determination engine after a comparison of an activation of a link to a user preference stored in a copy of the user preference database spawned on the virtual machine and or . Effect of data acceptability determination engine may communicate the anonymize data instruction to the data provider engine . The data provider engine may transmit the anonymize data instruction to the data modification engine which may transmit the anonymize data instruction to the data anonymization engine . Data anonymization engine may transmit the anonymized data to the data modification engine for transmission to the data provider engine . Data provider engine may then display the anonymized version of the data. Anonymized data may be data in which the original identity information of the data is hidden obscured replaced and or otherwise modified.

The operation illustrates providing a data display option of displaying a data portion consistent with at least one setting. Continuing the example above data provider engine may be in communication with Effect of data acceptability determination engine which may receive data from data obtainer engine . Effect of data acceptability determination engine may transfer effect of data acceptability determination to the data provider engine to provide the data display option of displaying data consistent with at least one setting. For instance data provider engine may receive at least one display instruction e.g. OK to display webpage from at least one component of Effect of data acceptability determination engine . At least one of virtual machines and or may include one or more instruction generating modules configured to provide an instruction to the Effect of data acceptability determination engine after a comparison of an activation of a link to a setting stored for example in a copy of the user preference database spawned on the virtual machine and or . Effect of data acceptability determination engine may communicate the display instruction to the data provider engine . If displayed data needs to be modified to be consistent with at least one setting the data provider engine may transmit the modify data instruction to the data modification engine for modification of the data. Data modification engine may transmit the modified data to the data provider engine . Data provider engine may then display the data consistent with the setting. Thus a webpage or website data may be determined to be displayable if the data satisfies a setting when at least one of virtual machines and or compares the data to the setting. For instance a portion of a webpage produced by a search including non English text may be removed from the web page prior to display of the data on a computer screen. Further in one specific example a webpage or website data may be determined to be displayable if the data satisfies a peer setting or a webpage or website data may be determined to be displayable if the data satisfies for instance a corporate setting.

The operation illustrates providing a data display option of displaying a data portion consistent with a privacy related setting. Continuing the example above at least one of virtual machines and or may include one or more instruction generating modules configured to provide an instruction to the Effect of data acceptability determination engine after a comparison of an activation of a link to a privacy related setting stored in a copy of the user preference database spawned on the virtual machine and or . Effect of data acceptability determination engine may communicate the display instruction to the data provider engine . If displayed data needs to be modified to be consistent with at least one privacy related setting the data provider engine may transmit the modify data instruction to the data modification engine for modification of the data. Data modification engine may transmit the modified data to the data provider engine . Data provider engine may then display the data consistent with the privacy related setting. For instance a portion of a returned webpage including data requesting private user information such as a user s social security number or e mail address may be removed from the web page prior to display of the data on a computer screen. Further specific examples include a webpage or website data may be determined to be displayable if the data satisfies a setting such as a privacy related setting such as a setting relating to a user s biographical information or financial information a webpage or website data may be determined to be displayable if the data satisfies a group privacy related setting such as a work group e.g. employees of a company a peer group e.g. members of a book club or a family group e.g. members of family unit privacy related setting or a webpage or website data may be determined to be displayable if the data satisfies a privacy setting determined by a corporation or other organization to maintain corporate or organization privacy.

The operation illustrates providing a data display option of displaying a data portion consistent with a public safety setting. Continuing the example above at least one of virtual machines and or may include one or more instruction generating modules configured to provide an instruction to the Effect of data acceptability determination engine after a comparison of an activation of a link to a desirability setting stored in a copy of the user preference database spawned on the virtual machine and or . Effect of data acceptability determination engine may communicate the display instruction to the data provider engine . If displayed data needs to be modified to be consistent with at least one public safety setting the data provider engine may transmit the modify data instruction to the data modification engine for modification of the data. Data provider engine may then display the data portion consistent with the public safety setting. For instance the data display option may be displaying on a display of an end user s real machine only a data portion consistent with public safety setting such as display only non confidential data. 

The operation illustrates redirecting to alternative data. Continuing the example above data provider engine may be in communication with Effect of data acceptability determination engine which may receive data from data retriever engine . Effect of data acceptability determination engine may transfer effect of data acceptability determination to the data provider engine and an instruction to provide the data display option of redirecting to alternative data e.g. another website . For instance data provider engine may receive at least one redirect instruction from at least one component of Effect of data acceptability determination engine . Each of virtual machines and or may include one or more instruction generating modules configured to provide a redirect instruction to the Effect of data acceptability determination engine after a comparison of an activation of a link to a user preference stored in a copy of the user preference database spawned on the virtual machine and or . Effect of data acceptability determination engine may communicate the redirect instruction to the data provider engine . The data provider engine may transmit the redirect data instruction to the data redirection engine for redirection to alternative data. The data redirection engine may transmit the redirection to the data provider engine . Data provider engine may then display the alternative data.

The operation illustrates automatically redirecting to alternative data. Continuing the example above Effect of data acceptability determination engine may transfer effect of data acceptability determination to the data provider engine to provide the data display option of automatically redirecting to alternative data e.g. another website consistent with a user preference. For instance data provider engine may receive at least one automatically redirect instruction from at least one component of Effect of data acceptability determination engine . At least one of virtual machines and or may include one or more instruction generating modules configured to provide an automatically redirect instruction to the Effect of data acceptability determination engine after a comparison of an activation of a link to a user preference stored in a copy of the user preference database spawned on the virtual machine and or . Effect of data acceptability determination engine may communicate an automatically redirect to alternative data consistent with the user preference instruction to the data provider engine . The data provider engine may transmit the redirect instruction to the data redirection engine for automatic redirection to alternative data consistent with the user preference. The data redirection engine may transmit the automatic redirection to the data provider engine . Data provider engine may then automatically e.g. prior to alerting a user display the alternative data. For instance an end user s real machine may be automatically redirected to an acceptable web link or a page of acceptable data.

The operation illustrates providing a list of selectable alternative data options. Continuing the example above Effect of data acceptability determination engine may transfer effect of data acceptability determination to the data provider engine and an instruction to provide the data display option of providing a list of selectable alternative data options e.g. a list of alternative websites consistent with a user preference. For instance data provider engine may receive at least one provide selectable alternatives instruction from at least one component of Effect of data acceptability determination engine . At least one of virtual machines and or may include one or more instruction generating modules configured to transmit a provide selectable alternatives instruction to the Effect of data acceptability determination engine after a comparison of an activation of a link to a user preference stored in a copy of the user preference database spawned on the virtual machine and or . Effect of data acceptability determination engine may communicate the provide selectable alternatives instruction to the data provider engine . The data provider engine may transmit the provide selectable alternatives instruction to the data redirection engine to provide selectable alternatives consistent with the user preference. The data redirection engine may transmit the list of selectable alternatives to the data provider engine . Data provider engine may then display the list of selectable alternatives. For instance the list of selectable alternative data options may include a list of acceptable web links or a selectable list of web pages. Selectable web links and web pages may include a thumbnail image of the first page of the web link or of the web page.

The operation illustrates displaying alternative data consistent with a customized user setting. Continuing the example above Effect of data acceptability determination engine may transfer effect of data acceptability determination to the data provider engine and an instruction to provide the data display option of displaying data consistent with at least one customized user setting. For instance data provider engine may receive at least one display instruction e.g. OK to display webpage from at least one component of Effect of data acceptability determination engine . At least one of virtual machines and or may include one or more instruction generating modules configured to provide an instruction to the Effect of data acceptability determination engine after a comparison of an activation of a link to a customized user setting stored in a copy of the user preference database spawned on the virtual machine and or . Effect of data acceptability determination engine may communicate the display instruction to the data provider engine . If data needs to be modified to be consistent with at least one customized user setting the data provider engine may transmit the modify data instruction to the data modification engine for modification of the data. Data modification engine may transmit the modified data to the data provider engine . Data provider engine may then display the data consistent with the customized user setting. Thus a webpage or website data may be determined to be displayable if the data satisfies a customized user setting when at least one of virtual machines and or compares the data to the customized user setting. For instance a portion of a webpage produced by a search including non English text may be removed from the web page prior to display of the data on a computer screen. Further in one specific example a webpage or website data may be determined to be displayable if the data satisfies a customized peer user setting or a webpage or website data may be determined to be displayable if the data satisfies for instance a customized corporate user setting.

The operation illustrates displaying alternative data consistent with a user history setting. Continuing the example above Effect of data acceptability determination engine may transfer effect of data acceptability determination to the data provider engine and an instruction to provide the data display option of redirecting to alternative data consistent with a user history setting e.g. another website . For instance data provider engine may receive at least one redirect instruction from at least one component of Effect of data acceptability determination engine . At least one of virtual machines and or may include one or more instruction generating modules configured to provide a redirect instruction to the Effect of data acceptability determination engine after a comparison of an activation of a link to a user history setting stored in a copy of the user preference database spawned on the virtual machine and or . Effect of data acceptability determination engine may communicate the redirect to alternative data consistent with a user history setting instruction to the data provider engine . The data provider engine may transmit the redirect data instruction to the data redirection engine for redirection to alternative data consistent with a user history setting. The data redirection engine may transmit the redirection to the data provider engine . Data provider engine may then display the alternative data. For instance displayed alternative data may be consistent with a user history such as having viewed only music related data and pages.

The operation illustrates displaying alternative data consistent with a safety setting. Continuing the example above Effect of data acceptability determination engine may transfer effect of data acceptability determination to the data provider engine and an instruction to provide the data display option of redirecting to alternative data consistent with a safety setting e.g. another website . For instance data provider engine may receive at least one redirect instruction from at least one component of Effect of data acceptability determination engine . At least one of virtual machines and or may include one or more instruction generating modules configured to provide a redirect instruction to the Effect of data acceptability determination engine after a comparison of an activation of a link to a safety setting stored in a copy of the user preference database spawned on the virtual machine and or . Effect of data acceptability determination engine may communicate the redirect to alternative data consistent with a safety setting instruction to the data provider engine . The data provider engine may transmit the redirect data instruction to the data redirection engine for redirection to alternative data consistent with a safety setting. The data redirection engine may transmit the redirection to the data provider engine . Data provider engine may then display the alternative data. Displaying alternative data consistent with a safety setting may include displaying a different webpage including only information consistent with a safety setting such as do not display links requesting credit card information. 

The operation illustrates displaying alternative data consistent with a workplace safety setting. Continuing the example above. Effect of data acceptability determination engine may transfer effect of data acceptability determination to the data provider engine and an instruction to provide the data display option of redirecting to alternative data consistent with a workplace safety setting e.g. another website . For instance data provider engine may receive at least one redirect instruction from at least one component of Effect of data acceptability determination engine . At least one of virtual machines and or may include one or more instruction generating modules configured to provide a redirect instruction to the Effect of data acceptability determination engine after a comparison of an activation of a link to a workplace safety setting stored in a copy of the user preference database spawned on the virtual machine and or . Effect of data acceptability determination engine may communicate the redirect to alternative data consistent with a workplace safety setting instruction to the data provider engine . The data provider engine may transmit the redirect data instruction to the data redirection engine for redirection to alternative data consistent with a workplace safety setting. The data redirection engine may transmit the redirection to the data provider engine . Data provider engine may then display the alternative data. Displaying alternative data consistent with a workplace safety setting may include displaying a different webpage including only information consistent with a workplace safety setting such as do not display links requesting information on this computer. 

The operation illustrates displaying alternative data consistent with a child safety setting. Continuing the example above Effect of data acceptability determination engine may transfer effect of data acceptability determination to the data provider engine to provide the data display option of redirecting to alternative data consistent with a child safety setting e.g. another website . For instance data provider engine may receive at least one redirect instruction from at least one component of Effect of data acceptability determination engine . At least one of virtual machines and or may include one or more instruction generating modules configured to provide a redirect instruction to the Effect of data acceptability determination engine after a comparison of an activation of a link to a child safety setting stored in a copy of the user preference database spawned on the virtual machine and or . Effect of data acceptability determination engine may communicate the redirect to alternative data consistent with a child safety setting instruction to the data provider engine . The data provider engine may transmit the redirect data instruction to the data redirection engine for redirection to alternative data consistent with a child safety setting. The data redirection engine may transmit the redirection to the data provider engine . Data provider engine may then display the alternative data. Displaying alternative data consistent with a child safety setting may include displaying a different webpage including only information consistent with a child safety setting such as do not display links containing trailers for rated R movies. 

The operation illustrates displaying alternative data consistent with a home safety setting. Continuing the example above Effect of data acceptability determination engine may transfer effect of data acceptability determination to the data provider engine and an instruction to provide the data display option of redirecting to alternative data consistent with a public safety setting e.g. another website . For instance data provider engine may receive at least one redirect instruction from at least one component of Effect of data acceptability determination engine . Effect of data acceptability determination engine may transfer effect of data acceptability determination to the data provider engine and an instruction to provide the data display option of redirecting to alternative data consistent with a home safety setting e.g. another website . For instance data provider engine may receive at least one redirect instruction from at least one component of Effect of data acceptability determination engine . At least one of virtual machines and or may include one or more instruction generating modules configured to provide a redirect instruction to the Effect of data acceptability determination engine after a comparison of an activation of a link to a home safety setting stored in a copy of the user preference database spawned on the virtual machine and or . Effect of data acceptability determination engine may communicate the redirect to alternative data consistent with a home safety setting instruction to the data provider engine . The data provider engine may transmit the redirect data instruction to the data redirection engine for redirection to alternative data consistent with a home safety setting. The data redirection engine may transmit the redirection to the data provider engine . Data provider engine may then display the alternative data. Displaying alternative data consistent with a home safety setting may include displaying a different webpage including only information consistent with a home safety setting such as do not display links requesting address information. 

Following are a series of flowcharts depicting implementations. For ease of understanding the flowcharts are organized such that the initial flowcharts present implementations via an example implementation and thereafter the following flowcharts present alternate implementations and or expansions of the initial flowchart s as either sub component operations or additional component operations building on one or more earlier presented flowcharts. Those having skill in the art will appreciate that the style of presentation utilized herein e.g. beginning with a presentation of a flowchart s presenting an example implementation and thereafter providing additions to and or further details in subsequent flowcharts generally allows for a rapid and easy understanding of the various process implementations. In addition those skilled in the art will further appreciate that the style of presentation used herein also lends itself well to modular and or object oriented program design paradigms.

Those having skill in the art will recognize that the state of the art has progressed to the point where there is little distinction left between hardware software and or firmware implementations of aspects of systems the use of hardware software and or firmware is generally but not always in that in certain contexts the choice between hardware and software can become significant a design choice representing cost vs. efficiency tradeoffs. Those having skill in the art will appreciate that there are various vehicles by which processes and or systems and or other technologies described herein can be effected e.g. hardware software and or firmware and that the preferred vehicle will vary with the context in which the processes and or systems and or other technologies are deployed. For example if an implementer determines that speed and accuracy are paramount the implementer may opt for a mainly hardware and or firmware vehicle alternatively if flexibility is paramount the implementer may opt for a mainly software implementation or yet again alternatively the implementer may opt for some combination of hardware software and or firmware. Hence there are several possible vehicles by which the processes and or devices and or other technologies described herein may be effected none of which is inherently superior to the other in that any vehicle to be utilized is a choice dependent upon the context in which the vehicle will be deployed and the specific concerns e.g. speed flexibility or predictability of the implementer any of which may vary. Those skilled in the art will recognize that optical aspects of implementations will typically employ optically oriented hardware software and or firmware.

In some implementations described herein logic and similar implementations may include software or other control structures suitable to operation. Electronic circuitry for example may manifest one or more paths of electrical current constructed and arranged to implement various logic functions as described herein. In some implementations one or more media are configured to bear a device detectable implementation if such media hold or transmit a special purpose device instruction set operable to perform as described herein. In some variants for example this may manifest as an update or other modification of existing software or firmware or of gate arrays or other programmable hardware such as by performing a reception of or a transmission of one or more instructions in relation to one or more operations described herein. Alternatively or additionally in some variants an implementation may include special purpose hardware software firmware components and or general purpose components executing or otherwise invoking special purpose components. Specifications or other implementations may be transmitted by one or more instances of tangible transmission media as described herein optionally by packet transmission or otherwise by passing through distributed media at various times.

Alternatively or additionally implementations may include executing a special purpose instruction sequence or otherwise invoking circuitry for enabling triggering coordinating requesting or otherwise causing one or more occurrences of any functional operations described above. In some variants operational or other logical descriptions herein may be expressed directly as source code and compiled or otherwise invoked as an executable instruction sequence. In some contexts for example C or other code sequences can be compiled directly or otherwise implemented in high level descriptor languages e.g. a logic synthesizable language a hardware description language a hardware design simulation and or other such similar mode s of expression . Alternatively or additionally some or all of the logical expression may be manifested as a Verilog type hardware description or other circuitry model before physical implementation in hardware especially for basic operations or timing critical applications. Those skilled in the art will recognize how to obtain configure and optimize suitable transmission or computational elements material supplies actuators or other common structures in light of these teachings.

The foregoing detailed description has set forth various embodiments of the devices and or processes via the use of block diagrams flowcharts and or examples. Insofar as such block diagrams flowcharts and or examples contain one or more functions and or operations it will be understood by those within the art that each function and or operation within such block diagrams flowcharts or examples can be implemented individually and or collectively by a wide range of hardware software firmware or virtually any combination thereof. In one embodiment several portions of the subject matter described herein may be implemented via Application Specific Integrated Circuits ASICs Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs digital signal processors DSPs or other integrated formats. However those skilled in the art will recognize that some aspects of the embodiments disclosed herein in whole or in part can be equivalently implemented in integrated circuits as one or more computer programs running on one or more computers e.g. as one or more programs running on one or more computer systems as one or more programs running on one or more processors e.g. as one or more programs running on one or more microprocessors as firmware or as virtually any combination thereof and that designing the circuitry and or writing the code for the software and or firmware would be well within the skill of one of skill in the art in light of this disclosure. In addition those skilled in the art will appreciate that the mechanisms of the subject matter described herein are capable of being distributed as a program product in a variety of forms and that an illustrative embodiment of the subject matter described herein applies regardless of the particular type of signal bearing medium used to actually carry out the distribution. Examples of a signal bearing medium include but are not limited to the following a recordable type medium such as a floppy disk a hard disk drive a Compact Disc CD a Digital Video Disk DVD a digital tape a computer memory etc. and a transmission type medium such as a digital and or an analog communication medium e.g. a fiber optic cable a waveguide a wired communications link a wireless communication link e.g. transmitter receiver transmission logic reception logic etc. etc. .

In a general sense those skilled in the art will recognize that the various aspects described herein which can be implemented individually and or collectively by a wide range of hardware software firmware and or any combination thereof can be viewed as being composed of various types of electrical circuitry. Consequently as used herein electrical circuitry includes but is not limited to electrical circuitry having at least one discrete electrical circuit electrical circuitry having at least one integrated circuit electrical circuitry having at least one application specific integrated circuit electrical circuitry forming a general purpose computing device configured by a computer program e.g. a general purpose computer configured by a computer program which at least partially carries out processes and or devices described herein or a microprocessor configured by a computer program which at least partially carries out processes and or devices described herein electrical circuitry forming a memory device e.g. forms of memory e.g. random access flash read only etc. and or electrical circuitry forming a communications device e.g. a modem communications switch optical electrical equipment etc. . Those having skill in the art will recognize that the subject matter described herein may be implemented in an analog or digital fashion or some combination thereof.

Those skilled in the art will recognize that at least a portion of the devices and or processes described herein can be integrated into a data processing system. Those having skill in the art will recognize that a data processing system generally includes one or more of a system unit housing a video display device memory such as volatile or non volatile memory processors such as microprocessors or digital signal processors computational entities such as operating systems drivers graphical user interfaces and applications programs one or more interaction devices e.g. a touch pad a touch screen an antenna etc. and or control systems including feedback loops and control motors e.g. feedback for sensing position and or velocity control motors for moving and or adjusting components and or quantities . A data processing system may be implemented utilizing suitable commercially available components such as those typically found in data computing communication and or network computing communication systems.

The herein described subject matter sometimes illustrates different components contained within or connected with different other components. It is to be understood that such depicted architectures are merely exemplary and that in fact many other architectures may be implemented which achieve the same functionality. In a conceptual sense any arrangement of components to achieve the same functionality is effectively associated such that the desired functionality is achieved. Hence any two components herein combined to achieve a particular functionality can be seen as associated with each other such that the desired functionality is achieved irrespective of architectures or intermedial components. Likewise any two components so associated can also be viewed as being operably connected or operably coupled to each other to achieve the desired functionality and any two components capable of being so associated can also be viewed as being operably couplable to each other to achieve the desired functionality. Specific examples of operably couplable include but are not limited to physically mateable and or physically interacting components and or wirelessly interactable and or wirelessly interacting components and or logically interacting and or logically interactable components.

In some instances one or more components may be referred to herein as configured to configurable to operable operative to adapted adaptable able to conformable conformed to etc. Those skilled in the art will recognize that configured to can generally encompass active state components and or inactive state components and or standby state components unless context requires otherwise.

While particular aspects of the present subject matter described herein have been shown and described it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that based upon the teachings herein changes and modifications may be made without departing from the subject matter described herein and its broader aspects and therefore the appended claims are to encompass within their scope all such changes and modifications as are within the true spirit and scope of the subject matter described herein. It will be understood by those within the art that in general terms used herein and especially in the appended claims e.g. bodies of the appended claims are generally intended as open terms e.g. the term including should be interpreted as including but not limited to the term having should be interpreted as having at least the term includes should be interpreted as includes but is not limited to etc. . It will be further understood by those within the art that if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is intended such an intent will be explicitly recited in the claim and in the absence of such recitation no such intent is present. For example as an aid to understanding the following appended claims may contain usage of the introductory phrases at least one and one or more to introduce claim recitations. However the use of such phrases should not be construed to imply that the introduction of a claim recitation by the indefinite articles a or an limits any particular claim containing such introduced claim recitation to claims containing only one such recitation even when the same claim includes the introductory phrases one or more or at least one and indefinite articles such as a or an e.g. a and or an should typically be interpreted to mean at least one or one or more the same holds true for the use of definite articles used to introduce claim recitations. In addition even if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is explicitly recited those skilled in the art will recognize that such recitation should typically be interpreted to mean at least the recited number e.g. the bare recitation of two recitations without other modifiers typically means at least two recitations or two or more recitations . Furthermore in those instances where a convention analogous to at least one of A B and C etc. is used in general such a construction is intended in the sense one having skill in the art would understand the convention e.g. a system having at least one of A B and C would include but not be limited to systems that have A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together and or A B and C together etc. . In those instances where a convention analogous to at least one of A B or C etc. is used in general such a construction is intended in the sense one having skill in the art would understand the convention e.g. a system having at least one of A B or C would include but not be limited to systems that have A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together and or A B and C together etc. . It will be further understood by those within the art that typically a disjunctive word and or phrase presenting two or more alternative terms whether in the description claims or drawings should be understood to contemplate the possibilities of including one of the terms either of the terms or both terms. For example the phrase A or B will be typically understood to include the possibilities of A or B or A and B. 

With respect to the appended claims those skilled in the art will appreciate that recited operations therein may generally be performed in any order. Also although various operational flows are presented in a sequence s it should be understood that the various operations may be performed in other orders than those which are illustrated or may be performed concurrently. Examples of such alternate orderings may include overlapping interleaved interrupted reordered incremental preparatory supplemental simultaneous reverse or other variant orderings unless context dictates otherwise. Furthermore terms like responsive to related to or other past tense adjectives are generally not intended to exclude such variants unless context dictates otherwise.

