---

title: Balloon mitral spacer
abstract: A heart valve implant according to one embodiment may include a shaft and an anchor disposed on one end of the shaft, the anchor configured to engage tissue. The heart valve implant may further include an expandable member disposed over at least part of the shaft, the expandable member comprising a resiliently deformable internal layer and a resiliently deformable external layer disposed over the internal layer, the expandable member defining a chamber and being configured to receive an inflation medium in the chamber to expand the expandable member, the expandable member further configured to deform upon contact with at least a portion of at least one leaflet of a heart valve to at least partially conform to the shape of the leaflet.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08894705&OS=08894705&RS=08894705
owner: Cardiosolutions, Inc.
number: 08894705
owner_city: West Bridgewater
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130423
---
This application is a division of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 748 121 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 425 592 filed May 14 2007 which is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 258 828 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 092 525 filed on Oct. 26 2005 the entire content of each of which are herein incorporated by reference.

The present disclosure relates to the repair and or correction of dysfunctional heart valves and more particularly pertains to heart valve implants and systems and methods for delivery and implementation of the same.

A human heart has four chambers the left and right atrium and the left and right ventricles. The chambers of the heart alternately expand and contract to pump blood through the vessels of the body. The cycle of the heart includes the simultaneous contraction of the left and right atria passing blood from the atria to the left and right ventricles. The left and right ventricles then simultaneously contract forcing blood from the heart and through the vessels of the body. In addition to the four chambers the heart also includes a check valve at the upstream end of each chamber to ensure that blood flows in the correct direction through the body as the heart chambers expand and contract. These valves may become damaged or otherwise fail to function properly resulting in their inability to properly close when the downstream chamber contracts. Failure of the valves to properly close may allow blood to flow backward through the valve resulting in decreased blood flow and lower blood pressure.

Mitral regurgitation is a common variety of heart valve dysfunction or insufficiency. Mitral regurgitation occurs when the mitral valve separating the left coronary atrium and the left ventricle fails to properly close. As a result upon contraction of the left ventricle blood may leak or flow from the left ventricle back into the left atrium rather than being forced through the aorta. Any disorder that weakens or damages the mitral valve can prevent it from closing properly thereby causing leakage or regurgitation. Mitral regurgitation is considered to be chronic when the condition persists rather than occurring for only a short period of time.

Regardless of the cause mitral regurgitation may result in a decrease in blood flow through the body cardiac output . Correction of mitral regurgitation typically requires surgical intervention. Surgical valve repair or replacement may be carried out as an open heart procedure. The repair or replacement surgery may last in the range of about three to five hours and may be carried out with the patient under general anesthesia. The nature of the surgical procedure requires the patient to be placed on a heart lung machine. Because of the severity complexity danger associated with open heart surgical procedures corrective surgery for mitral regurgitation is typically not recommended until the patient s ejection fraction drops below 60 and or the left ventricle is larger than 45 mm at rest.

The present disclosure relates to a heart valve implant. A heart valve implant herein may suitably be used in connection with the treatment and or correction of a dysfunctional or inoperative heart valve. One suitable implementation for a heart valve implant consistent with the present disclosure is the treatment of mitral valve regurgitation. For the ease of explanation the heart valve implant herein is described in terms of a mitral valve implant such as may be used in treating mitral valve regurgitation. However a heart valve implant consistent with the present disclosure may be employed for treating and or correcting other dysfunctional or inoperative heart valves. The present disclosure should not therefore be construed as being limited to use as a mitral valve implant.

Generally a heart valve implant consistent with the present disclosure may interact with at least a portion of an existing heart valve to prevent and or reduce regurgitation. For example at least a portion of one or more cusps of the heart valve may interact with engage and or seal against at least a portion of the heart valve implant when the heart valve is in a closed condition. The interaction engagement and or sealing between at least a portion of at least one cusp and at least a portion of the heart valve implant may reduce and or eliminate regurgitation in a heart valve for example providing insufficient sealing including only a single cusp e.g. following removal of a diseased and or damaged cusp and or having a ruptured cordae. A heart valve implant consistent with the present disclosure may be used in connection with various additional and or alternative defects and or deficiencies.

Referring to a perspective view of an embodiment of a mitral valve implant is depicted. In general the mitral valve implant may be capable of increasing the sealing and or closure of the passage between the left ventricle and the left atrium during contraction of the left ventricle relative to damaged and or leaking native valve. Accordingly in some embodiments the mitral valve implant may be capable of operating in combination with a partially operable and or damaged mitral valve. That is the mitral valve implant may interact and or cooperate with at least a portion of the native mitral valve to reduce and or eliminate excessive regurgitation. As shown mitral valve implant may generally include a valve body portion which may be coupled to a shaft . The shaft may be coupled to an anchor portion .

The valve body portion of the mitral valve implant shown in may have a generally tapered shape including a sidewall tapering outwardly from a narrow portion adjacent to one end of the valve body to an enlarged portion adjacent to the other end of the valve body . The taper of the sidewall may have a flared or belled shape providing an at least partially concave geometry as depicted in . In various other embodiments the valve body may include a sidewall having a generally uniform taper providing a straight profile. In still other embodiments the sidewall of the valve body may exhibit a convex taper producing an at least somewhat bulging tapered profile.

The enlarged portion of the valve body may have an arcuate profile around the circumference of the proximal region of the enlarged portion . The bottom of the enlarged portion may be provided having a flat and or arcuate shape. Furthermore the bottom of the proximal region may include convex and or concave contours.

According to an embodiment the valve body may be slidably coupled to the shaft . The valve body may include an opening extending from the bottom of the enlarged portion through the valve body and to the narrow portion . In one such embodiment the opening may extend generally axially through the valve body . The opening may be sized to slidably receive at least a portion of the shaft therethrough. The shaft may include one or more stops . The stops may be sized and or shaped to control and or restrict translation of the valve body along the shaft beyond the respective stops . In this manner in the illustrated embodiment translation of the valve body along the shaft may be restricted to the expanse of the shaft between the stops .

One or more of the stops may be integrally formed with the shaft . Furthermore one or more of the stops may be provided as a separate member coupled to and or formed on the shaft . In an embodiment in which one or more of the stops are integrally formed with the shaft the valve body may be slidably coupled to the shaft by pressing the valve body over at least one of the stops which may at least partially elastically deform the opening to permit passage of at least one of the stops . Once the one or more of the stops have been pressed through the opening the opening may at least partially elastically recover thereby resisting passage of the one or more stops back through the opening . Various other arrangements may be employed for providing stops on the shaft and or for controlling and or limiting translation of the valve body along the shaft.

The anchor portion may include a helical member coupled to the shaft . As shown the helical member may be loosely wound such that adjacent turns of the helical member do not contact one another for example resembling a corkscrew type configuration. The anchor portion may be engaged with tissue by rotating the anchor portion about the axis of the helical member thereby advancing the anchor portion into tissue. Consistent with such an embodiment the anchor portion may resist pulling out from the tissue. The anchor portion may be provided as an extension of the shaft wound in a helical configuration. Consistent with related embodiments the anchor portion may be formed as a separate feature and may be coupled to the shaft e.g. using mechanical fasteners welding adhesive etc.

According to various alternative embodiments the anchor portion may include various configurations capable of being coupled to and or otherwise attached to native coronary tissue. For example the anchor portion may include one or more prongs adapted to pierce coronary tissue and to alone or in conjunction with other features resist removal of the anchor portion from tissue. For example the anchor portion may include a plurality of prongs which may engage native coronary tissue. According to various other embodiments the anchor portion may include features that may facilitate attachment by suturing. Exemplary features to facilitate suturing may include rings or openings suture penetrable tabs etc. Various other anchor portions that may allow attachment or coupling to native coronary tissue may also suitably be employed in connection with the present disclosure.

Turning to the mitral valve implant is shown implanted within a heart . The mitral valve implant may be disposed at least partially within the left ventricle of the heart . As shown the anchor portion may be engaged with native coronary tissue within and or adjacent to the left ventricle . The shaft coupled to the anchor portion may extend into the left ventricle . The shaft may further extend at least partially within the mitral valve i.e. the shaft may extend at least partially between the cusps of the mitral valve and may also extend at least partially into the left atrium . The valve body of the mitral valve implant may be positioned at least partially within the left ventricle with the enlarged portion within the left ventricle and with the narrow portion positioned at least partially within and or pointed towards the left atrium .

Sliding translation of the valve body along the shaft may at least partially withdraw the valve body from the mitral valve to an open position as shown. When the valve body is at least partially withdrawn from the mitral valve a passage may be opened between the valve body and the mitral valve allowing blood to flow from the left atrium to the left ventricle . Translation of the valve body away from the mitral valve may be controlled and or limited by the stop . In the open position the stop may maintain the valve body in general proximity to the mitral valve while still permitting sufficient clearance between the mitral valve and the valve body to permit adequate blood flow from the left atrium to the left ventricle . Additionally the flow of blood from left atrium to the left ventricle may cause the mitral valve to flare and or expand outwardly away from the mitral valve implant permitting blood flow between the implant and the cusps of the mitral valve.

As the left ventricle contracts the pressure of blood in the left ventricle may increase such that the blood pressure in the left ventricle is greater than the blood pressure in the left atrium . Additionally as the pressure of the blood in the left ventricle initially increases above the pressure of the blood in the left atrium blood may begin to flow towards and or back into the left atrium . The pressure differential and or initial flow of blood from the left ventricle into the left atrium may act against the valve body and may translate the valve body toward the left atrium . For example pressurized blood within the left ventricle may act against the bottom of the valve body inducing sliding translation of the valve body along the shaft toward the left atrium .

Turning to the mitral valve implant is shown in a closed position. In the closed position the valve body may be translated toward and or at least partially into the left atrium . At least a portion of the valve body may interact with engage and or be positioned adjacent to at least a portion of the mitral valve . For example at least a portion of at least one cusp of the mitral valve may contact at least a portion of the valve body . Engagement between the valve body and the mitral valve may restrict and or prevent the flow of blood from the left ventricle back into the left atrium .

In addition to the translation of the valve body the mitral valve may also at least partially close around the valve body thereby also restricting and or preventing the flow of blood from the left ventricle to the left atrium . For example as mentioned above at least a portion of one or both of the cusps of the mitral valve may contact at least a portion of the valve body. In some embodiments as the pressure of the blood in the left ventricle increases the pressure against the bottom of the valve body may increase. The increase in pressure against the bottom of the valve body may in turn increase the engagement between the valve body and the mitral valve .

Sliding translation of the valve body toward the left atrium may at least partially be controlled and or limited by the stop coupled to the shaft . Additionally translation of the valve body toward the left atrium may be at least partially limited and or controlled by engagement between the valve body and the mitral valve . One or both of these restrictions on the translation of the valve body may in some embodiments prevent the valve body from passing fully into the left atrium . Furthermore the diameter of the enlarged portion of the valve body may limit and or restrict the movement of the valve body into the left atrium .

The preceding embodiment may therefore provide a mitral valve implant that is slidably translatable relative to the mitral valve to reduce and or eliminate regurgitation. Further embodiments of a mitral valve implant having a translating valve body may be provided including various alternative valve body configurations. For example in one embodiment a valve body may be provided generally configured as a disc including generally planar or arcuate top and bottom surfaces. In the same manner as the illustrated embodiment of the disc may translate along a shaft between an open position spaced from the mitral valve of the heart and closed position at least partially engaging the mitral valve and or at least partially obstructing a flow of blood from the left ventricle to the left atrium. Implants employing a valve body having various other geometries such as spherical oblong etc. may also suitably be employed. Furthermore in addition to the slidably translatable valve body depicted in embodiments may be provided in which the valve body is rotatably and or pivotally translatable to engage and or interact with at least a portion of the mitral valve.

The illustrated mitral valve implant is shown including only a single anchor portion coupled to a proximal end of the shaft. A mitral valve implant consistent with the present disclosure may include more than one anchor portion for securing the mitral valve implant to native coronary tissue. Additional anchor portions may be employed to provide more secure coupling of the valve implant to coronary tissue. Furthermore more than one anchor portion may be employed to achieve more precise positioning of the valve implant and or the valve body portion of the valve implant within the heart. For example a replacement valve may include an anchor portion coupled to the proximal end of the shaft and to the distal end of the shaft. In such an embodiment each end of the shaft may be coupled to native coronary tissue. The orientation of the shaft and thereby the path of translation of the valve body may be controlled by coupling each end of the shaft to native coronary tissue. In a similar embodiment the valve implant may include an anchor portion coupled to one end of the shaft and may include another anchor portion coupled to the shaft between the ends thereof.

A valve implant may be produced from a variety of suitable materials. Generally such materials may be biocompatible. Suitable materials may include biocompatible polymers such as silicone polyurethane etc. Various metals may additionally be used in connection with a valve implant such as titanium stainless steel etc. Additionally biological materials and or materials which may promote cellular ingrowth may also be used in connection with a valve implant herein. Furthermore various combinations of materials may be used herein e.g. providing composite features and or portions made from different materials. For example the shaft may be formed from a metal and the valve body may be formed from a polymeric material. Various additional and or alternative combinations may also be employed herein.

Turning to another embodiment of a mitral valve implant is depicted. The mitral valve implant generally includes a valve body portion coupled to a shaft . The shaft may be coupled to an anchor . The valve body may be coupled to the shaft in a stationary fashion e.g. the valve body may be coupled to the shaft in a non slidable manner. Generally the valve body may be maintained at a generally fixed position on the shaft . The mitral valve implant may be implanted in a heart such that the anchor and the shaft may maintain the valve body in a position relative to various aspects of the coronary anatomy. According to one aspect the anchor and the shaft may maintain the valve body positioned extending at least partially within the mitral valve.

The valve body may be maintained in a stationary position on the shaft in various ways. For example valve body may be formed directly on the shaft . Additionally and or alternatively the valve body may be adhesively bonded welded staked and or mechanically fastened to the shaft . Consistent with other embodiments the shaft may include one or more stops or features which may prevent and or limit translation of the valve body along the shaft. For example the shaft may include a stop closely positioned on either end of the valve body thereby restricting movement of the valve body. The stops may be fixed and or may be adjustable along the shaft . Various other configurations and or arrangements may be employed for coupling the valve body in a stationary manner with respect to the shaft .

Similar to previous embodiments the anchor may be provided having a helical or corkscrew shape. The helical anchor may be engaged with coronary tissue by rotating the anchor about the axis of the helix thereby driving the anchor into native coronary tissue. Once the anchor has been engaged with native coronary tissue the anchor may resist axial pull out from the tissue. The anchor may additionally and or alternatively be provided having various features and or configurations. For example the anchor may be provided having one or more prongs which may pierce and or be embedded in coronary tissue. In one embodiment the anchor may include a barbed prong which may resist removal of the anchor from the coronary tissue. The anchor may also be provided having suturing features. For example the anchor may include a tab and or ring etc. through which a suture may pass to secure the anchor coronary tissue.

Turning to the mitral valve implant is shown implanted within a heart . The mitral valve implant may be positioned extending at least partially into and or through the mitral valve between the left ventricle and the left atrium . As shown when the pressure of blood in the left atrium is higher than the pressure of blood in the left ventricle for example during contraction of the left atrium the mitral valve may be in an open condition. In an open condition blood may flow from the left atrium through the mitral valve and around the valve body and into the left atrium .

The anchor may be engaged in native coronary tissue surrounding and or defining at least a portion of the left ventricle . The valve body may be positioned extending at least partially into and or through the mitral valve by the shaft extending between the anchor and the valve body . In a related embodiment the anchor may be engaged in tissue surrounding and or defining at least a portion of the left atrium. Similar to the preceding embodiment the valve body may be positioned extending at least partially into and or through the mitral valve by the shaft extending between the anchor and the valve body .

Consistent with a further embodiment the mitral valve implant may include more than one anchor for positioning the valve body relative to the mitral valve. For example the shaft may include an anchor coupled to each end of the shaft. The shaft may be provided extending through the mitral valve with one anchor being engaged with coronary tissue on the ventricle side of the mitral valve. The other anchor may be engaged with coronary tissue on the atrium side of the mitral valve. As with the previous embodiments the valve body may be coupled in a stationary position on the shaft such that the valve body is positioned extending at least partially into and or at least partially through the mitral valve.

The valve body may be shaped to facilitate the flow of blood from the left atrium to the left ventricle when the mitral valve is open. The valve body may have a generally streamlined shape allowing the smooth flow of blood around the valve body . Other embodiments of the mitral valve implant may provide less consideration for the flow characteristics of blood flowing around the valve body. The valve body may have a generally cylindrical prismatic etc. shape without limitation.

The performance of the mitral valve implant for reducing and or eliminating mitral valve regurgitation may be at least in part related to the positioning of valve body relative to the mitral valve . In an embodiment consistent with this aspect during implantation of the mitral valve implant the valve body may be slidably positionable along the shaft . Once the anchor is engaged with native coronary tissue the valve body may be translated along the shaft and may be positioned relative to the mitral valve e.g. such that the valve body extends at least partially within the mitral valve . Slidable positioning of the valve body along the shaft after the mitral valve implant has been delivered to the heart may allow the performance of the mitral valve implant to be adjusted. Furthermore the adjustability of the position of the valve body may accommodate any errors in the position of the anchor in the heart and or may render the successful implantation of the mitral valve implant less dependent upon accurate placement of the anchor . Once the valve body has been positioned the position of the valve body on the shaft may be fixed e.g. by frictional engagement between the valve body and the shaft etc.

The illustrated and described embodiments of the mitral valve implant have utilized an implant body coupled to a shaft. The shaft as used herein may be a rigid semi rigid. In further embodiments the shaft may be a flexible member. Consistent with such embodiments the shaft may be a flexible wire or filament etc. In some embodiments the flexible wire or filament may be coupled to at least two anchor portions. For example the flexible wire or filament may extend through the valve body. An anchor may be coupled to the flexible wire or filament on each side of the valve body. For example the flexible wire or filament may position the valve body relative to the mitral valve and may be coupled to the left ventricle and to the left atrium on either side of the valve body.

An embodiment of a mitral valve implant including a flexible wire and or filament may suitably be employed in embodiments including a translating valve body in which the valve body may slidably translate along the flexible wire or filament. In a related embodiment the valve body may be non slidably coupled to the flexible wire or filament. The flexible wire or filament may be provided having a length which may permit the valve body to move toward and away from the mitral valve utilizing the flexibility of the flexible wire or filament.

Furthermore an embodiment of a mitral valve implant including a flexible wire or filament may also suitably be employed in an embodiment including a generally stationary implant body. According to such an embodiment the implant body may be generally non slidably coupled to the flexible wire or filament. The flexible wire or filament may be coupled to native coronary tissue e.g. via anchor portions etc. on either side of the valve body. Coupling the flexible wire or filament on either side of the valve body may generally maintain the valve body in a position within and or relative to the mitral valve.

Turning to another embodiment of a mitral valve implant is shown. Similar to the previously described embodiment the mitral valve implant may generally include a valve body configured to reduce and or eliminate mitral valve regurgitation. In contrast to the preceding embodiment an anchor may be coupled to the valve body . As shown the anchor may be directly coupled to the valve body without a shaft extending between the anchor and the valve body .

As mentioned above various different features and or arrangements may be used for attaching and or securing the mitral valve implant relative to coronary anatomy. depicts another embodiment of a mitral valve implant according to the present disclosure including an alternative anchor . As shown the mitral valve implant may include a valve body coupled directly to the anchor . Alternatively the valve body may be indirectly coupled to the anchor e.g. by a shaft. The anchor may generally include one or more prongs stems etc. . The prong may include one or more barbs . The mitral valve implant may be attached and or secured to native coronary tissue by piercing the anchor at least partially into native coronary tissue. The one or more barbs may engage the coronary tissue and resist removal of the anchor from the coronary tissue.

In a related embodiment an anchor including one or more barbs may be employed in connection with a translating mitral valve implant configuration as shown and described herein. In such and embodiment the valve body may be translatable relative to the native mitral valve. For example the valve body may be coupled to the anchor by a shaft extending therebetween. The valve body may be slidable along the shaft permitting the valve body the translate relative to the mitral valve. Various alternative and or additional related embodiments may also be provided consistent with this aspect of the present disclosure.

Turning to another embodiment of a movable and or translatable mitral valve implant is depicted. Similar to the previously described embodiment the mitral valve implant may generally include a valve body slidably coupled to a shaft . The mitral valve may further include an anchor coupled to the shaft and configured to secure and or attach the mitral valve implant to native coronary tissue. As shown in broken line the mitral valve implant may include a single stop configured to restrict and or control the range of movement of the valve body along the shaft . As shown the stop may be disposed at least partially within the valve body and the range of movement of the valve body may be restricted by an interaction between the stop and an inner wall and or portion of the valve body .

As shown the shaft may extend at least partially though the valve body e.g. through respective openings and at opposed ends of the valve body . The stop may be an enlarged region of the shaft and or a bead or other member disposed on the shaft . The stop may be dimensioned to prevent and or restrict passage of the stop through one or both of the openings in the valve body . The valve body may therefore translate along the shaft with the range of movement being controlled and or restricted by the interaction of the stop and the openings and or with an interior wall of the valve body .

According to one embodiment of a mitral valve implant including a single stop for controlling the range of movement of the valve body the stop may be installed inside of the valve body by elastically deforming one of the openings over the stop . One of the openings may be elastically deformed by pushing the stop against the opening causing the valve body to deform and the opening to expand to permit entrance of the stop into the valve body . The valve body may subsequently at least partially elastically recover to resist subsequent removal of the stop from the valve body . Deformation and or elastic recovery of the valve body may be aided by heating the valve body and or the stop. In a related embodiment the stop may also and or alternatively elastically deform to permit assembly of the mitral valve implant. Various additional and or alternative methods may also be employed for forming a mitral valve implant including a single stop for restricting and or controlling the range of movement of the valve body.

A mitral valve implant according to the present disclosure may be implanted using a variety of surgical an or non surgical procedures and or minimally invasive surgical procedures. A surgical implantation procedure may include for example an open heart procedure in which the implant may be directly placed into the heart and manually positioned relative to the mitral valve.

A mitral valve implant consistent with the present disclosure may also advantageously be implanted using less invasive procedures. For example the mitral valve implant may be implanted using a percutaneous procedure. A suitable percutaneous implantation procedure may include a catheterization procedure. Generally in a percutaneous catheterization procedure the mitral valve implant may be delivered to the heart using a catheter inserted into a vein or artery depending upon the desired delivery sight and into the left atrium or the left ventricle. In one such embodiment the mitral valve implant may be delivered via a transceptal approach in which the catheter is inserted e.g. via a vein into the right atrium. The catheter may then pass through a puncture between the right atrium to the left atrium and further through the mitral valve to the left ventricle if desired. Generally according to a catheterization procedure the vein or artery may be accessed through a percutaneous incision or puncture. A catheter carrying the mitral valve implant may be introduced into the vein or artery through the incision or puncture. The catheter and mitral valve implant may be passed through the vein or artery into the heart. Once in the heart the mitral valve implant may be deployed from the catheter and positioned within and or between the left ventricle and the left atrium.

Turning next to an embodiment of a percutaneous delivery system for a mitral valve implant is shown. As previously described the mitral valve implant may generally include a valve body and an anchor . According to some embodiments the mitral valve may further include a shaft which is coupled between the valve body and the anchor . As depicted the mitral valve implant may be loaded into a catheter . According to a further embodiment the mitral valve implant may be carried by a conveyance feature such as an enlarged region of a catheter and or a chamber or pod couple to the catheter.

As generally outlined above with the mitral valve implant loaded in the catheter and or within a conveyance feature associated with the catheter at least a portion of the catheter may be inserted into a vein or artery and passed through the vessels i.e. veins and or arteries to the heart. Conveyance of the catheter and or of the mitral valve implant to the heart may be directed and or assisted by monitoring the travel of the catheter e.g. via radiographic and or other imaging techniques etc. For example at least a portion of the catheter and or at least a portion of the mitral valve implant may include a radio opaque material allowing the position of the catheter and or of the mitral valve implant to be radiographically monitored or determined.

Once the mitral valve implant has been delivered to the heart the mitral valve implant may be implanted by positioning and securing the implant within the heart and deploying the implant from the catheter . The implant may be secured within the heart by engaging the anchor with native coronary tissue. Utilizing a helical anchor as shown the mitral valve implant may be secured by pressing the anchor into coronary tissue and rotationally advancing the anchor into coronary tissue. Rotationally advancing the anchor may be achieved by rotating the entire catheter and or at least a portion of the catheter and thereby also rotating the anchor relative to the coronary tissue. Alternatively the anchor and or the entire mitral valve implant may be rotated independently of the catheter e.g. by a drive lead such as a flexible drive shaft extending through at least a portion of the catheter and coupled to the mitral valve implant and or coupled to the anchor. According to various other embodiments the anchor of the mitral valve implant may include suturing features barbs and or prongs etc. Suitable corresponding operations may be employed for engaging such anchor features with native coronary tissue.

The mitral valve implant may be deployed from the catheter or other conveyance feature by pushing the mitral valve implant from the catheter. For example a pushrod etc. may extend through at least a portion of the catheter . The pushrod may be axially advanced through the catheter to force the mitral valve implant from the lumen of the catheter . In a related embodiment the mitral valve implant may be deployed from the catheter via hydraulic force. For example a fluid may be forced through the catheter. The fluid may bear on and may hydraulically eject the mitral valve implant from the catheter. In still a further embodiment the mitral valve implant may be pulled from the catheter. The anchor may be engaged with coronary tissue and the catheter may be withdrawn from the anchor site leaving the mitral valve implant engaged with the coronary tissue. Combinations of the foregoing deployment techniques as well as other known deployment techniques may also suitable be employed.

The mitral valve implant may be positioned relative to the coronary anatomy before during or after deployment of the mitral valve implant from the catheter . For example the anchor portion of the mitral valve implant may be engaged with coronary tissue. The valve body and shaft may then be positioned relative to coronary anatomy by manipulation of the catheter etc. Once the mitral valve implant has been arranged relative to coronary anatomy the mitral valve implant may be fully deployed from the catheter . Alternatively the mitral valve implant may be fully deployed from the catheter . Following deployment the mitral valve implant may be manipulated to achieve a position and or arrangement relative to coronary anatomy. Consistent with such an embodiment the anchor of the mitral valve implant may be engaged with coronary tissue before during or after complete deployment of the mitral valve implant . Various other techniques and methods may also suitably be employed.

At least a portion of the mitral valve implant may be collapsible and or reducible in volume to facilitate percutaneous and or transluminal delivery. In such a manner the valve body of the mitral valve implant may be a collapsible member which can be reduced in volume and or reduced in maximum diameter during delivery to the heart and or during placement and or attachment of the anchor to native coronary tissue. After delivery to the heart the valve body may be expanded inflated and or otherwise increased in volume or size. Accordingly the mitral valve implant may be delivered to an implantation site via a smaller diameter catheter and or via smaller vessels than would otherwise be required.

With reference to according to one embodiment the mitral valve implant may include an inflatable valve body . An inflatable valve body may include an at least partially deformable body defining at least one cavity . The body may further define an opening capable of receiving at least a portion of a shaft therein. Additionally or alternatively the body may include one or more features for coupling the body to a shaft.

The at least partially deformable valve body may be collapsed to a reduced size which may for example allow the valve body to be loaded into a catheter delivery system. Such a catheter delivery system may be suitable for transluminal delivery of a mitral valve implant including the inflatable valve body to the heart. In addition to being collapsed the valve body may be deformed to facilitate loading into a catheter delivery system. For example the valve body may be collapsed and may be rolled and or folded to a generally cylindrical shape allowing the valve body to be loaded in a catheter having a circular lumen.

A collapsed and or rolled or folded valve body may be inflated restoring the valve body to expanded configuration. For example a collapsed and or rolled or folded valve body may be inflated and restored to an expanded configuration once the mitral valve implant has been delivered to the heart and deployed from a catheter delivery system. Inflating the valve body may be carried out by introducing a fluid such as saline into the at least one cavity . In addition to a liquid such as saline the valve body may be inflated with a setting or curable fluid. The setting or curable fluid may set and or be cured to a solid and or semi solid state within the cavity of the valve body. An example of such a material may be a thermoset polymer resin a gel material such as silicone gel etc.

According to one embodiment after delivery to the heart and deployment from the catheter delivery system the at least one cavity may be filled with a fluid by injecting the fluid into the cavity via a filling tube extending through and or with the catheter delivery system. Other filling methods and systems may also suitably be employed herein. In an inflated state the valve body may be shaped and or configured for use in connection with a translating and or a stationary mitral valve implant as described previously.

According to another embodiment shown in the valve body may be expandable. An embodiment of an expandable valve body suitable for use in connection with a mitral valve implant herein may include a recoverably deformable shell defining the shape of the valve body . Similar to previous embodiments the valve body may include an opening for receiving a shaft of a mitral valve implant at least partially therein. According to one embodiment the opening may provide a passage extending through the valve body . Additionally and or alternatively the valve body may include features for coupling the valve body to the shaft.

The recoverably deformable shell may be deformable for example to permit the valve body to be collapsed folded rolled etc. for loading into a catheter delivery system and or to facilitate delivery of a mitral valve implant including the valve body to an implantation site e.g. within the heart. The recoverably deformable shell may further be recoverable allowing the valve body to return to the expanded configuration from a deformed configuration.

Consistent with one aspect the deformable shell may include a resiliently deformable material such as an elastomer which may be elastically deformed under stress. The deformable shell may elastically recover when the stress is removed. In such an embodiment the deformable shell may for example be deformed from an expanded configuration to a collapsed condition and loaded into a catheter delivery system. After delivery to an implant site the deformable shell may be deployed from the catheter delivery system thereby removing the deforming stress from the valve body . Once the deforming stress is removed the deformable shell may resiliently recover back to the expanded configuration.

In a related embodiment the deformable shell may include a shape memory material such as Nitinol etc. The deformable shell may be collapsed and or deformed to facilitate delivery of the implant to the desired site e.g. via a transluminal and or a surgical procedure. The deformable shell may subsequently be recovered to an expanded configuration. In an embodiment using a thermally activated shape memory material recovery of the shape memory deformable shell may be accomplished by heating the deformable shell to or above an activation temperature. Heat for activating the shape memory material may be provided by the body temperature of the subject receiving the mitral valve implant and or from an external source e.g. via the catheter etc.

An embodiment of mitral valve implant may include an expandable recoverable valve body including a cellular material. The cellular material may be for example a deformable and or compressible expanded material such as a polymeric foam material. The valve body may be deformed compressed and or collapsed to a reduced volume configuration at least in part by compressing or deforming the cellular material. The mitral valve implant may be transported to an implant site as disclosed. When the implant is deployed from the delivery system the valve body may recover to a generally original volume and or configuration. Recovery of the valve body may include recovery and or expansion of the cellular material.

In another related embodiment depicted in an expandable valve body may include deformable and or flexible outer shell . The outer shell may be supported in an expanded configuration by one or more recoverably deformable supports. In the embodiment of the recoverably deformable support may be provided as a resiliently deformable rib . The deformable shell may be a resiliently deformable material and or may be a flexible material. The resiliently deformable rib and or the deformable shell may be deformed e.g. to collapse the valve body from an expanded configuration under a deforming stress. As discussed with reference to other embodiments collapsing the valve body may facilitate transport to an mitral valve implant for example using a catheter delivery system. When the deforming stress is released e.g. by deploying the valve body from a delivery system the recoverably deformable rib and or the deformable outer shell may resiliently recover to restore the valve body to an expanded condition. While only a single rib is depicted in the illustrated embodiment the valve body may alternatively include a plurality of recoverably deformable ribs.

In various embodiments the recoverably deformable supports may be configured as ribs generally having a transverse orientation relative to the axis of the valve body such as depicted in . In additional and or alternative embodiments a valve body may include a deformable and or flexible outer shell not shown covering and or supported by recoverably deformable supports in the form of resiliently deformable stringers . As depicted in the recoverably deformable stringers may be generally oriented along the longitudinal axis of the valve body . In a further embodiment the recoverably deformable supports may be configured as a lattice scaffolding etc. supporting a deformable and or flexible outer shell of the valve body. Further embodiments may include combinations ribs and stringers. Various other configurations of recoverably deformable supports may also suitably be employed.

In addition to resiliently recoverable shell supports etc. a mitral valve implant may include a valve body having an outer shell and or having supports which may be controllably recoverable. For example an outer shell and or one or more supports of a mitral valve implant valve body may be formed from a shape memory material. Such materials may include shape memory metal alloys shape memory polymers etc. Consistent with such embodiments the valve body may be collapsed and or otherwise deformed from an expanded configuration. The collapsed and or deformed valve body may maintain the collapsed and or deformed configuration after the initial deforming stress is released. The valve body may subsequently be returned to the expanded and or operable configuration for example by heating the valve body above an activation temperature of the shape memory material which may induce recovery of the shape memory material to a pre deformed shape. The activation temperature inducing recovery of the deformed valve body may be provided by the body temperature of the patient receiving the mitral valve implant. Alternatively heat for activating recovery of the shape memory material may be provided by a heating element coupled to the valve body and or a heating element delivered through a catheter. In other embodiments activating heat may be provided by irradiating the shape memory material e.g. with microwaves IR light etc.

Another embodiment of a valve body suitable for use in a mitral valve implant is shown in . The valve body may include first and second enlarged portions joined by a narrow region . In one such embodiment the valve body may have a generally hourglass shape as shown. The valve body may be positioned relative to a mitral valve such that the first enlarged portion may be disposed at least partially within the left atrium and the second enlarged portion may be disposed at least partially within the left ventricle. The valve body may be maintained in position relative to the coronary anatomy by an anchor and or a shaft consistent with any preceding embodiment. Additionally the valve body may be a collapsible and or expandable member consistent with any previously discussed embodiment.

Referring now to another embodiment of a mitral valve implant is shown. Mitral valve implant generally includes expandable member shaft and anchor . Expandable member may be an inflatable member capable of expanding or contracting in order to conform with portions of the mitral valve. For example expandable member may expand until the exterior surface e of expandable member approaches or conforms with one or more of the leaflets and or cusps of the mitral valve.

Expandable member may include a central portion proximal end and distal end . Ends of expandable member may each be tapered and configured to form an opening capable of allowing shaft to pass therethrough. This opening could be configured into a variety of different geometries including but not limited to circular square oval etc. Ends may be configured to form a seal around shaft in order to prevent the inflation medium from escaping before during or after inflation. In some embodiments proximal end may be connected to a connecting member which may include a valve portion not shown for insufflation deflation. Proximal and distal ends may be expandable however in other embodiments proximal and distal ends may be constructed out of a rigid non expandable material leaving an expandable central portion .

Expandable member may include central portion as well as proximal and distal ends . Central portion may be monolithically formed with proximal and distal ends and . Alternatively central portion may be configured to connect with proximal and distal ends and to form a seal. Expandable member may be constructed out of a variety of different materials. Some expanding materials may include polymeric materials elastomeric materials rubber latex chloroprene nylon fabrics or any other suitable materials. The exterior surface e of expandable member may be smooth or rough and may include ridges or irregular contours capable of receiving portions of the mitral valve. In some embodiments the exterior surface of expandable member may include a fabric material capable of contacting and interacting with the leaflets of the mitral valve. In some embodiments central portion may also include a coating which may provide a non stick surface. Central portion may include other materials as well including but not limited to fabric materials microfibers nanomaterials etc. Ends and may include similar materials.

In some embodiments shaft may be securely attached to the proximal and or distal ends of expandable member . This attachment may be achieved using welding or any other suitable connection. Shaft may also include anchor portion which may be constructed in a variety of different configurations such as the helical arrangement described hereinabove. In some embodiments expandable member may be slidably movable about shaft . For example expandable member may slide about shaft in a distal direction until reaching anchor portion . Similarly expandable member may be configured to slide in a proximal direction before coming into contact with connecting member . Stops such as those described herein may be employed to limit the axial movement of expandable member . In some embodiments expandable member may be adjusted and placed in different positions along shaft . For example shaft may include ridges or other adjustment mechanisms capable of forming an interface with ends and of expandable member . Using this type of arrangement expandable member may be adjusted to a number of different positions along shaft . Shaft may be constructed out of a variety of different materials and may be rigid or flexible in nature. Moreover shaft may be hollow and may further include a variety of apertures capable of transporting an inflation medium to the interior i of expandable member . In some embodiments the hollow shaft may receive an inflation medium from a hose affixed to connecting member . Upon entering the hollow shaft this medium may travel in a distal direction until reaching the plurality of apertures at which point the medium may exit shaft and insufflate the interior of expandable member . Shaft may be entirely solid or entirely hollow or may include both solid and hollow portions. For example shaft may be hollow until the distal end of expandable member is reached and solid thereafter.

Connecting member may establish a connection between expandable member and a conduit not shown such as a hose or other device. This conduit may be connected to an inflation device in order to provide the necessary expansion to expandable member . Expandable member may include pressure sensors and may be capable of indicating the current pressure within the interior of expandable member . This information may be provided to the inflation device using telemetry or any other suitable techniques.

Expandable member may be configured to receive a variety of different substances through connecting member . These substances may include but are not limited to liquids gases e.g. air helium hydrogen nitrous oxide gels flouro visible materials etc. Connecting member may be affixed to the conduit and or expandable member using a variety of different arrangements including but not limited to compression fittings ferrules screw fittings snap fittings press fittings welding threaded rod etc. In some embodiments connecting member may be monolithically formed with expandable member and or shaft . Connecting member may further include a valve portion not shown that may be used to inflate or deflate expandable member . Valve portion not shown may include but is not limited to ball check valves swing check valves clapper valves stop check valves and lift check valves.

Expandable member may be detachably removable from shaft using a variety of different techniques including but not limited to by disconnecting connecting member from shaft and or expandable member . For example if expandable member is defective or in need of replacement connecting member may be disconnected and expandable member may be removed and a new valve body may be used as a replacement.

Referring now to a cross sectional view of mitral valve implant is shown. shows expandable member having internal layer i and external layer e . Expandable member defines an internal chamber c configured to receive an inflation medium. Internal layer i and external layer e may each be constructed out of a resiliently deformable material. For example internal layer i may be constructed out of an open or closed cell foam material which may be compressed into a catheter and delivered to the operative site. In some embodiments internal layer i may be constructed out of shape memory alloy e.g. copper zinc aluminum copper aluminum nickel nickel titanium etc. forming a scaffold or strut matrix. Materials having shape memory properties may provide a layer that is capable of moving with expandable member from an initial position to an expanded position and back. The resiliently deformable properties of expandable member allow exterior layer e and interior layer i to at least partially conform with the shape of the leaflets of the heart valve. Interior layer i defines an opening or chamber within expandable member . This chamber c may be configured to receive an inflation medium from shaft . External layer e may be disposed over the internal layer i as shown in . External layer e may be constructed out of a variety of different materials including but not limited to expanded PolyTetraFluoroEthylene EPTFE and high silicone content polyurethane copolymers such as Elasteon available from AorTech International PLC of the United Kingdom.

Referring now to and mitral valve implant is shown in an initial and expanded position respectively. Implant may be secured to an area of the heart using anchor portion . Expandable member may be adjusted axially along shaft until the desired position is reached e.g. adjusting the depth of anchor portion adjusting via shaft adjustment mechanisms etc. . At this point an inflation medium may be fed into valve body via a hose or other conduit . This medium may cause expandable member to expand away from shaft and possibly create contact with the leaflets of the mitral valve as shown in

In addition to the circular configuration shown in expandable member may include a number of different shapes and configurations. Some possible geometries may include but are not limited to round elliptical pear shaped self shaping hourglass shaped etc. Expandable member may include a uniform or irregular diameter along its length 1 . For example the width w of expandable member may increase or decrease along its length 1 traveling between proximal end and distal end .

Referring now to a mitral valve implant including a pear shaped expandable member is shown. Implant may include shaft anchor portion and proximal and distal ends as described above. In this embodiment expandable member is shown having a tapered configuration increasing in diameter from a more narrow geometry to a wider geometry as the distal end of expandable member is approached. Of course this tapered configuration could be altered and may include varying degrees of curvature. For example the diameter of expandable member could decrease in diameter as the distal end of expandable member is approached.

Referring now to an additional embodiment of a mitral valve implant is shown. Mitral valve implant may include expandable member shaft and anchor portion . depicts implant in an at rest position. Implant may further include a plurality of protrusions connected via linkage portion . Aspects of linkage portion and protrusions may be configured to receive an inflation medium and to expand in a transverse direction from shaft . Protrusions may be expandable and may be further configured to receive gels or other substances which may be capable of hardening after entering expandable member . Some substances may maintain a self shaping property which may allow portions of expandable member to conform to the leaflets of the mitral valve. shows an embodiment of implant in an expanded position. Implant may be expanded until protrusions and or linkage portion contact the leaflets of the mitral valve.

In some embodiments the valve implant described herein may be used as a sizing mechanism in order to determine the approximate distance between the leaflets of the mitral valve. In other words once the approximate size of the opening is determined via the valve implant a mold having a similar construction may be created and inserted in order to provide a more permanent device.

In some embodiments the expandable member may be filled with a fluoro visible material which may provide the surgeon with improved visibility during the placement of implant. The implant may be positioned in an uninflated state and subsequently inflated after it has been placed in the appropriate position possibly between the leaflets of the mitral valve. The fluoro visible material may remain within the expandable member or may be removed and replaced with an alternative substance.

The implant herein has been disclosed above in the context of a mitral valve implant. An implant consistent with the present disclosure may also suitably be employed in other applications e.g. as an implant associated with one of the other valves of the heart etc. The present disclosure should not therefore be construed as being limited to use for reducing and or preventing regurgitation of the mitral valve.

The terms valve body and expandable member as described herein may be used interchangeably to refer to a portion of the valve implant that may conform with at least a portion of at least one leaflet of a heart valve. While the depicted embodiments including expandable and or recoverably deformable valve bodies have generally been shown configured as a expandable member consistent with a stationary valve implant an expandable and or recoverably deformable expandable member may be configured for use as part of a valve implant including a translating valve body. Similarly while the valve implant embodiments including an expandable expandable member have been discussed in connection with transluminal and or percutaneous delivery systems and or procedures such embodiments may also suitably be employed in connection with surgical delivery systems and or methods. Additionally other features and aspects of the various embodiments may also suitably be combined and or modified consistent with the present disclosure. The disclosure herein should not therefore be limited to any particular disclosed embodiment and should be given full scope of the appended claims.

