---

title: Adaptive control of display characteristics of pixels of a LCD based on video content
abstract: Determining pixel behavior type of a pixel or a group of pixels of a LCD and triggering adjustment in drive power of the pixel or the group of pixels based on the pixel behavior type. The pixel behavior type indicates relative motion of areas on the LCD in a video. A pixel behavior determination module directs one or more selected pixels of the LCD to be driven relative slower or faster based upon content of video that the selected pixels display. Operations include identifying an active window from a plurality of windows corresponding to a plurality of applications running on the host device and setting the drive power of those pixels that correspond to the active window based on speed of a video displayed on the active window. Operation may also include adapting LCD drive power on a pixel by pixel basis based upon user input and/or remaining battery life.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08941639&OS=08941639&RS=08941639
owner: Broadcom Corporation
number: 08941639
owner_city: Irvine
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130830
---
The present U.S. Utility patent application claims priority pursuant to 35 U.S.C. 120 as a continuation to U.S. Utility application Ser. No. 13 454 549 entitled Adaptive Control of Display Characteristics of Pixels of a LCD Based on Video Content filed Apr. 24 2012 which claims priority pursuant to 35 U.S.C. 120 as a continuation to U.S. Utility application Ser. No. 12 492 708 entitled Adaptive Control of Display Characteristics of Pixels of a LCD Based on Video Content filed Jun. 26 2009 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 184 135 which claims priority pursuant to 35 U.S.C. 119 e to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 175 326 entitled Adaptive Control of Display Characteristics of Pixels of a LCD Based on Video Content filed May 4 2009 all of which are hereby incorporated herein by reference in their entirety and made part of the present U.S. Utility patent application for all purposes.

The present invention relates generally to flat video displays and more particularly to the pixel by pixel control of Liquid Crystal Displays LCDs to achieve power savings.

Liquid crystal displays LCDs are rapidly displacing traditional cathode ray tube monitors in popularity because the LCDs take up less space consume less power and offer crisp text compared to the cathode ray tube monitors. LCDs work on principle of twisting polarizing liquid crystal material under the influence of an electric field. With some LCDs light passes from a backlight source through a first polarizer passes through a layer of liquid crystals passes through a colored filter and then passes through a second polarizer that is oriented 90 degrees from the first polarizer. When light cannot pass through the second polarizer the pixel appears black. An electric field created around the liquid crystal material twists the LCD material which bends the light and lines the light up with the second polarizer allowing the light to pass through when the pixel is turned on.

LCD displays are often driven using Thin Film Transistors TFTs . With displays of this type TFTs are arranged on a glass substrate immediately below a layer of liquid crystal material pixel elements with each TFT altering the state of liquid crystal material of a corresponding pixel. Driving TFTs to a switched on state causes the corresponding pixel to turn on. The liquid crystal material of an LCD pixel will usually untwist naturally when a corresponding TFT is not driven. The TFTs can be driven to an off state and driving the TFTs rapidly from an off state to an on state is usually required when displaying fast moving images such as video. Rapid switching of the TFTs that is required to display video results in more drive power consumption of the TFTs of the LCD.

When an LCD monitor is used for viewing and editing text for example a less expensive slower and lower power consuming LCD monitor may be used. A viewer who watches action films and plays graphically intensive video games from time to time may justify the higher cost and power requirements associated with a high speed LCD monitor even though much use of the LCD is for slow moving images e.g. text editing web page browsing etc. With many LCD monitors LCD pixels are typically driven for maximum speed twisting and untwisting even though such performance is not generally required. Such operation consumes significant power which is particularly problematic for hand held devices that are battery powered.

Further limitations and disadvantages of conventional and traditional approaches will become apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art through comparison of such systems with various aspects of the present invention.

The present invention is directed to apparatus and methods of operation that are further described in the following Brief Description of the Drawings the Detailed Description and the claims. Other features and advantages of the present invention will become apparent from the following detailed description of the invention made with reference to the accompanying drawings.

A notebook includes a LCD a keypad local media storage and a pixel behavior determination module . The notebook is communicatively coupled to a remote media server via an Internet Service Provider ISP network and an Internet backbone . The notebook receives multimedia content from the remote media server via the ISP network using a wireless connection and or a wired connection. A cellular phone includes a LCD a user input interface a local media storage and a pixel behavior determination module . The user input interface is one or more of a keypad a touchpad a pointer a pen and or a touch screen. The cellular phone is attached to a terrestrial cellular network . The cellular phone receives multimedia content from the remote media server via the terrestrial cellular network and the Internet backbone . The local media storage is on board memories of the notebook and the cellular phone respectively or removable storage devices. The multimedia content received by the notebook and the cellular phone from the remote media server includes one or combination of real time and or archived multimedia content such as text audio video and picture. The multimedia content stored in the local media storages and the multimedia content received from the remote media server are one of an interactive media such as a video game and a non interactive media such as a movie a word processor a spreadsheet a recorded video etc. A television includes a LCD and a pixel behavior determination module . The television receives television channels from one or both of a terrestrial TV network and a satellite network . A television channel is a movie a music video a television program a sporting or other entertainment event a news report or any of a variety of units of recorded or live multimedia content.

The notebook includes a graphics card not shown in the figure that generates and outputs electric signals to the LCD resulting in display of images on the LCD screen . Input to the graphics card is video media content that the notebook retrieves from the local media storage or the remote media server . The graphics card generates electric fields that twist or untwist liquid crystal pixel elements corresponding to each pixel of the screen making each pixel appear transparent or dark colored. The pattern of dark color and transparent pixels form an image on the LCD . Fast changing images such as those of moving video content requires rapid twisting or untwisting of liquid crystal pixel elements which requires high drive power. The pixel behavior determination module is communicatively coupled to the graphics card of the notebook and retrieves information regarding each pixel of the LCD . The information regarding each pixel of the LCD comprises color and intensity of each pixel for each frame of the content that is currently displayed on the LCD . The pixel behavior determination module instructs the graphics card of the notebook to change drive power of the LCD based on the information regarding each pixel. The module monitors the information regarding each pixel continuously and necessitates a change in the drive power of the LCD accordingly. As a way of example and without limitation a music video showing a singer walking on a stage is displayed on the LCD . The music video comprises two zones of differing operation i.e. a first zone that comprises the singer who is walking and a second zone that comprises the stage that is fixed. In every frame of the music video color and or intensity of pixels of the LCD corresponding to the first zone change whereas the color and intensity of pixels of the LCD corresponding to the second zone remain same. The module instructs the graphics card to decrease the drive power of pixels of the LCD corresponding to the second zone. Decrease in the LCD drive power leads to power saving which is particularly important if the notebook is running on a battery. Additionally the module determines how rapidly color and intensity of pixels of the LCD corresponding to the first zone change with time i.e. how fast the singer walks in the music video between successive frames and instructs the graphics card to increase or decrease the drive power of pixels of the LCD corresponding to the first zone. For example the singer does not move during a brief period of the music video. During the brief period of the music video the color and intensity of pixels corresponding to the first zone do not change between successive frames. The module instructs the graphics card to decrease drive power of pixels corresponding to the first zone during the brief period of the music video in order to save power. The module also tracks change in demarcations of the first zone and the second zone of the music video between frames and instructs the graphics card to decrease or increase drive power of pixels of the LCD on a pixel by pixel basis accordingly. The pixel behavior determination module continuously monitors the intensity and color of each pixel in each frame and triggers the graphics card to decrease or increase the drive power of the pixels of the LCD on a pixel by pixel basis.

In another embodiment of the present invention the pixel behavior determination module is adapted to monitor a plurality of videos that are currently displayed on the LCD and trigger a change in LCD drive power on a zone basis thereby leading to an optimum usage of power. As an example a plurality of videos each in a separate window are running on the notebook . The plurality of videos are a recorded video running in a first window and a word processor running in a second window. The pixel behavior determination module retrieves information regarding each pixel of the LCD display for each frame from the graphics card at a first instant of time and determines as an example that the second window is active and the recorded video is not running i.e. the first window is inactive. The module further determines rate at which images are changing in the word processor based on the information retrieved from the graphics card. The module instructs the graphics card of the notebook to set drive power of pixels that correspond to the second window or the active window on the LCD screen to a value that is sufficient to track changing images in the word processor. The module further instructs the graphics card of the notebook to set drive power of pixels that correspond to the first window or the inactive window on the LCD screen to a minimum value because images on the inactive window are not changing with time. A user of the notebook starts running the recorded video at a second instant of time. The module senses a rapid movement of images in the currently active first window based on the information retrieved from the graphics card at the second instant of time. Therefore the module causes an increase in the drive power of pixels corresponding to the first window to a value that is sufficient to track the changing images of the recoded video in the first window. The pixel behavior determination module subdivides the LCD into two zones a first zone corresponding to the first window and a second zone corresponding to the second window and controls drive power of pixels on zone basis in one or more of the following ways 1 the module selects current drive power of pixels corresponding to a zone of the LCD from a list of predetermined values and informs the graphics card 2 the module instructs the graphics card to increase or decrease the drive power of pixels corresponding to a zone of the LCD in steps and the graphics card ascertains pixel drive powers depending on number of steps.

In yet another embodiment the module is adapted to trigger an adjustment in the drive power of each pixel of the LCD based on 1 whether the notebook is running on a battery and 2 remaining power in the battery of the notebook when the notebook is running on the battery. The module causes the graphics card to switch to a lower pixel drive power for all the pixels of the LCD if the notebook runs on a battery and or the remaining power in the battery of the notebook goes below a predefined threshold.

The cellular phone and the television comprise pixel behavior determination modules and respectively that are communicatively coupled to respective graphics cards. The modules and trigger the respective graphics cards to adjust drive powers of all or a selected few pixels of the LCDs and respectively based on rate of change in color and intensity of pixels with time. The time rate of change of pixel characteristics i.e. color and intensity of pixels depends on content of videos currently displayed on the LCDs and . The modules and need a finite amount of time to detect pixel characteristics corresponding to the videos currently displayed on the LCDs and respectively and to trigger changes in corresponding pixel drive powers of the LCDs. In yet one more embodiment of the present invention each of the modules and delays respective video by a few frames and performs the pixel characteristic detection and the triggering in the meantime. In this embodiment each of the modules and stores the few frames in a local memory of the respective devices. The local memory can be on board memory of respective graphics cards. The plurality of devices can be one of a smart phone a video game box a personal digital assistant PDA and a personal computer apart from being a notebook a cellular phone and a television .

Each of the devices and of are indicated to include a pixel behavior determination module. The pixel behavior determination module in some embodiments is hardware e.g. circuitry that determines pixel characteristics and that adjusts the drive of the pixels of the LCD based upon detection. In other embodiments the pixel behavior determination module is one or more software modules running on a host processor of the corresponding device. In still another embodiment the pixel behavior determination module is a combination of hardware and software. The reader should understand that functions performed by the pixel behavior determination module require hardware to perform although control of such hardware may be partially or fully enacted using software instructions.

The TFTs are partially switched on at a next instant of time as shown in . Referring to different voltages are applied to each transistor of the TFTs. This in turn causes generation of an electric filed near the cells. A selected few of the liquid crystal pixel elements twist under the influence of the electric field causing a 90 degree bend in the polarized light. The polarized light now passes through the second polarizer . There is a red filter in front of the layer . Therefore the selected few pixels appear red and rest of the pixels appear dark. The crystal pixel elements untwist and arrange in horizontal position as shown in once the drive voltage is removed. The liquid crystal pixel elements require a finite amount of time to untwist and come back to the horizontal position. This finite amount of time determines how rapidly the liquid crystal pixel elements can twist and untwist and thereby limits maximum speed of a video that can be displayed on the TFT LCD. Alternately a voltage can be applied to the TFTs to untwist the twisted crystal elements faster thereby increasing the maximum allowable speed of the video on the TFT LCD but at the expense of more power. Power consumption by the TFT LCD increases with an increase in the speed of the video that is displayed on the TFT LCD. According to the present invention based upon pixel characteristics that in turn depends on video content that is displayed on the LCD the operation of pixels of the LCD is altered selectively. For example first drive settings may be applied to a selected few of the TFTs while second drive settings may be applied to rest of the TFTs . With the first drive settings the selected TFTs operate slowly than the rest of the TFTs with the second drive settings but the TFTs altogether i.e. the LCD consumes less power.

A multimedia content decoder receives digital information from the RF circuitry when the received information is in a digital format decodes the digital information and forwards decoded audio part and decoded video part to the audio card and the graphics card respectively. TV channels broadcast in digital format are coded for example the coding used in HDTV is MPEG II. Alternately the sound card performs decoding of the audio part and the graphics card performs decoding of the video part. In such a case the multimedia content decoder is not necessary.

Information necessary to display the video part of a TV channel on the LCD such as i frequency of row and column scanning or raster scanning ii pixel intensity and iii pixel colors during each raster scan are embedded in the video part of the RF signal. The graphics chip is communicatively coupled to the TFT thin film transistor controller . The graphics chip generates and sends signals to the TFT controller such that the TFT controller generates appropriate voltages to switch on TFTs corresponding to pixels of the LCD . The TFTs are arranged on a glass substrate immediately below a layer of liquid crystal pixel elements. The switched on TFTs twist the liquid crystal pixel elements thereby creating an image colored in some embodiments on the LCD . The liquid crystal pixel elements untwist and return to their original state when the TFTs are switched off thereby making the LCD pixels appear black. The TFTs pass through rapid on and off states in order to display a video i.e. rapidly changing images pictures frames on the LCD . The TFT controller generates voltages based on the 1 row and column scanning information and 2 the pixel intensity and color RGB information received from the graphics chip .

A pixel behavior determination module is communicatively coupled to the graphics chip . The module is the additional hardware and or software that enable the TFT controller to change display characteristics of the LCD on a pixel by pixel basis based on content of video displayed on the LCD . The module determines relative speed of action of each pixel of the LCD in a video currently being displayed on the LCD by monitoring how frequently intensity and color of each pixel change between successive raster scans. The pixel intensity and color do not change much between successive raster scans if the pixel corresponds to a portion of the video that is slow. However intensity and color of a pixel change rapidly between successive raster scans in case the pixel corresponds to a portion of the video that is fast thereby requiring the liquid crystal pixel to have fast response time.

The module instructs the TFT controller via the graphics chip to reduce drive voltages of a group of pixels that correspond to a slow region of the video running on the LCD . Drive voltage generation module in the TFT controller in response to the instruction from the module generates a lower voltage to drive the group of liquid crystal pixels thereby saving power. For example and without limitation a sporting event is being telecast on the television at a first instant of time. The pixel behavior determination module monitors the color and intensity of all pixels of the LCD for each frame of the video corresponding to the sporting event and determines that current drive voltage setting of the TFT controller is more than sufficient to display a slower region of the fast moving sporting event properly. The slower region of the fast moving sporting event is a region in a corner of the LCD panel that displays scoreboard of the sporting game. The module triggers the drive voltage generation module in the TFT controller to decrease the TFT voltage drives of a group of pixels in the corner of the LCD panel that displays the scoreboard of the sporting game by one or more steps. A range of possible TFT drive voltages may be divided into a plurality of steps. The drive voltage generation module is adapted to increase and decrease the TFT drive voltage levels by the multiples of steps. At a second instant of time an advertisement is being telecast on the television . The pixel behavior determination module determines that all pixels of the LCD panel act at same speed during the advertisement. The module further selects a drive voltage that is necessary to display the advertisement properly on the LCD . The module triggers the drive voltage generation module to drive all the pixels at the selected drive voltage during the advertisement. This may necessitate an increase and or decrease in TFT drive voltages of a few or all of the pixels. The TFT controller further includes Row Column Scanning circuitry Pixel RGB circuitry and pixel intensity generation circuitry .

The pixel behavior determination module determines how fast a pixel behavior color and intensity of a pixel changes from frame to frame in a video on the fly. In another embodiment a memory not shown in the figure stores a few frames of the video and the pixel behavior determination module uses the stored frames to determine how rapidly behavior of each of the pixels change with time in the few frames. In the embodiment the video on the LCD is delayed by the few frames. Further the drive voltages of the pixels may be varied once per frame or once the few frames. Furthermore the module sends information to the graphics card regarding behavior of the pixels during the few frames and the graphics card determines the pixel drive voltages based on the information received from the module .

In yet another embodiment of the present invention the television supports picture in picture PIP functionality. The television displays a first channel in a first window and a second channel in a second window. By way of example a news report is telecast on the first channel and a movie is telecast on the second channel. A first video corresponding to the news report is a slower video compared to a second video corresponding to the movie. The pixel behavior determination module determines a first TFT drive voltage necessary to display the first channel and a second TFT drive voltage necessary to display the second channel on the LCD . The second channel has faster moving images than the first channel and the second TFT drive voltage is higher than the first TFT drive voltage. The module triggers the TFT controller to drive a first group of pixels that are responsible for display on the first window with the first TFT drive voltage and to drive a second group of pixels that are responsible for display on the second window with the second TFT drive voltage. The module in effect divides the pixels of the LCD into two groups based on differing characteristics of images that are simultaneously displayed on the LCD and causes the two groups of pixels to be driven by two different drive voltages. At a second instance of time another news report is telecast in the second channel. The module triggers the TFT controller to reduce drive voltages of the second group of pixels to the first TFT drive voltage thereby saving power.

The LCD driver includes the drive voltage generation module that is responsible for generating drive voltages that are to be applied to liquid crystal pixels of the LCD screen . The drive voltage generation module generates drive voltages based on the pixel information of all pixels of the LCD screen wherein the pixel information is received by the LCD driver from the processing circuitry . The received multimedia content is one or more of real time and or archived multimedia content such as text movie picture recorded video streaming video etc. In one embodiment the multimedia content comes from a local memory . The local memory shown here is an on board memory. The local memory may alternately be a removable memory such as a pen drive a compact disc etc. The multimedia content from the local memory is archived information and reaches the processing circuitry and to be displayed on the LCD by way of interaction of the LCD driver with the processing circuitry that includes the graphics chip . Of course the cellular phone may include additional components in other embodiments such as a Global Positioning System GPS receiver a Wireless Local Area Network WLAN transceiver a Wireless Personal Area Network WPAN transceiver and or other components.

According to the present embodiment a pixel behavior determination module sits in between the processing circuitry and the LCD driver . The pixel behavior determination module is additional hardware that may include software that enables the LCD driver to change its display characteristics on a pixel by pixel basis based on content of video displayed on the LCD . The pixel behavior determination module retrieves pixel information corresponding to all pixels of the LCD from the processing circuitry once per frame. The module determines relative display speed of different areas of currently displayed video from the pixel information corresponding to all the pixels retrieved over a few frames. Relatively slower area of the currently displayed video requires relatively slower acting liquid crystal pixels with relatively slower response time compared to relatively faster acting liquid crystal pixels required for fast moving area of the currently displayed video. For example a gaming video showing a game between two players where a first player is moving more rapidly than a second player. The LCD screen comprises three areas zones wherein a first area zone shows rapid movements of a first player a second area zone shows slower movements of a second player and a third area zone shows background that does not change with time. Response time of liquid crystal pixels corresponding to the three zones are adjusted by increasing and or decreasing drive voltage of the pixels so as to make the pixel drive voltages optimum. The pixels corresponding to the first area are required to have a faster response time than the pixels corresponding to the second area which in turn are required to have a faster response time than the pixels corresponding to the third area. The module sets drive voltage for the pixels corresponding to the first area at a value that is higher than drive voltage for the pixels corresponding to the second area. The module sets drive voltage for the pixels corresponding to the third area to a minimum possible value since the third area shows the background that does not change with time. In other words the module triggers a decrease in pixel drive voltage of a pixel if the pixel acts slowly and triggers an increase in the pixel drive voltage if the pixel acts fast thereby causing a reduction in power consumption by the cellular phone that runs on the battery . In another embodiment the module retrieves the pixel information corresponding to all the pixels once in a few frames and triggers a change in drive voltages of the pixels once in the few frames.

The module further tracks boundaries of the areas zones of differing actions on the LCD screen . At a second instant of time the first player and the second player in the video game change their positions on the LCD screen . Boundaries of the first area on the LCD showing the rapidly moving first player and boundaries of the second area on the LCD showing the slowly moving second player at the second instant of time are different from that at previous instant of time. The module regroups pixels of the LCD screen into three groups corresponding to three areas of differing actions on the LCD screen and causes the three groups of pixels to be driven by different drive voltages. The drive voltages are based on relative speed of actions in the three areas of the LCD screen . The module determines drive voltages for the pixels of the LCD screen based on the 1 frequency of row and column scanning and 2 intensity and color of each of the pixels in each scanning. The module continuously monitors the above characteristics of a video and thereby causes a change in drive voltages of a few or all pixels of the LCD screen as and when required. The module requires a finite time to determine the drive voltages of the pixels. The module may store a few frames of the video in the memory of the cellular phone to gain this time. A time delay equivalent to the few frames makes no difference to a viewer as long as the frames of the video are displayed in correct order.

The pixel behavior determination module changes the drive voltages of a few or all of the pixels based on current activity on the LCD screen . As a way of example at a first instance of time a video clip is being displayed on the LCD screen . The module determines minimum possible pixel drive voltage for each of the pixels of the LCD screen land causes the LCD driver to drive the liquid crystal pixels at the minimum possible pixel drive voltages. At a second instance of time a user minimizes a window corresponding to the video clip. The pixels continue to be driven by the LCD driver though the user is not watching the video clip. The pixel behavior determination module retrieves information corresponding to the current activity on the LCD screen and causes the LCD driver to stop driving the pixels until the window becomes active. The module needs to communicate with the application that runs the video clip to detect the activity status of the window i.e. the current activity on the LCD screen . In this example the application can be as an example a real player or a windows media player. The module communicates with the application via the processing circuitry .

The pixel behavior determination module is further adapted to initiate a partial or full change in drive voltages of all pixels of the LCD screen based on charge remaining in the battery . The module checks the charge remaining in the battery at regular intervals. The module may perform the checking by interacting with the processing circuitry . The module instructs the LCD driver to generate a predefined pixel drive voltage for all the pixels irrespective of activity of different areas of the video currently being displayed on the LCD and current activity on the LCD screen when the charge remaining in the battery goes below a threshold level. As a result battery power gets saved although fast moving videos and or fast moving areas of a video appear blurry on the LCD screen . In another embodiment the pixel behavior determination module causes the pixel drive voltage to be varied based on type of the video and current activity on the LCD screen even when the charge remaining in the battery goes below the threshold level but causes the pixel drive voltages to be always a few percent for example 10 percent below the required pixel drive voltages. Reducing the pixel drive voltages in this way causes all areas and types of videos to be equally affected.

The display card is driven by a display driver that may be software that runs on the CPU . A graphics Application Program Interface API that may run OpenGL Direct3D DirectX or another software application also runs on the CPU . The CPU derives power from a battery when the CPU is disconnected from an external power supply. One or more of a variety of applications run on the CPU . The applications are for example and without limitation a word processor a media player a spreadsheet a drawing tool a video game a presentation application a browser etc. Each of these applications requires display of pictures and or videos on the LCD . Applications such as the media player and the video game call for rapid change of images on the LCD while applications such as the word processor the drawing tool and the browser need images on the LCD to change at a slower rate. A user runs and or interacts with the applications via a user input interface . The CPU the user input interface the battery the display card the TFT controller and the LCD together are found in a plurality of devices such as a video game box a personal computer a notebook a smart phone etc.

A pixel behavior determination module which may be software or a combination of software and hardware runs on the CPU . The pixel behavior determination module receives information regarding each of pixels of the LCD and for each frame of a video that is being currently displayed on the LCD from the display driver . The information regarding the pixels includes i color and intensity of each pixel in each frame. The pixel behavior determination module determines speed at which pixels act in a video based on the above information and determines desired response times of liquid crystal pixels i.e. how fast the liquid crystal pixels should twist and untwist based on how fast the pixels act. The pixel behavior determination module informs the display card about the desired response times of pixels of the LCD . Either the display card or the TFT controller determines desired TFT drive voltages corresponding to the desired response times and the drive voltage generation module generates the desired TFT drive voltages. The pixel behavior determination module studies the information regarding the pixels once per frame and therefore may trigger a change in the desired response times of the pixels once per frame. In another embodiment the module triggers a change in the desired response times of the pixels once per second or at another time interval. In yet another embodiment the module retrieves the information regarding the pixels when an application becomes active thereby causing the TFT controller to change the TFT drive voltages of the pixels once per active application change.

The pixel behavior determination module in addition to setting the pixel drive voltages to desired values is operable to identify a group of pixels of the LCD that require identical or almost identical pixel response times. The module is adapted to subdivide the LCD into zones of differing pixel response times and cause pixels associated with a zone to be driven by same drive voltage. The pixels associated with a zone of the LCD may be contiguously located or may be geographically separated. The pixel behavior determination module instead of triggering the TFT controller to drive all the pixels at different drive voltages triggers the TFT controller to drive the zones of differing pixel response times with different drive voltages. In this way the module reduces complexity of the TFT controller . The TFT controller selects the pixel drive voltages from a range of continuously variable drive voltages. In another embodiment of the present invention the TFT controller selects the pixel drive voltages from a list of predefined drive voltages.

As a way of example and without limitation at a first instance of time a video game a word processor and a presentation application are running on a first window a second window and a third window respectively. A window activity detection module is another piece of software that runs on the CPU and is adapted to sense if a window is visually active. The window activity detection module forwards information regarding activity of currently open windows to the pixel behavior determination module . The window activity detection module informs the pixel behavior determination module at the first instance of time that all three windows are currently active. The pixel behavior determination module subdivides the pixels of the LCD into a first group corresponding to the first window a second group corresponding to the second window a third group corresponding to the third window and a fourth group that corresponds to an area of the LCD that is not occupied by either of the three active windows. The module sets drive voltages of the four groups of pixels to four different values based on activity of the four groups of pixels. For example drive voltage for the first group of pixels will be highest and drive voltage for the fourth group of pixels will be minimum among four drive voltages because the first group of pixels is responsible for display of the video game and the fourth group of pixels is responsible for display of an inactive area on the LCD . At a second instance of time a user minimizes the first window and overlays the second window on the third window because the user works with the word processor only. At the second instance of time the window activity detection module senses that the second window is visually active and the first window and the third window are visually inactive. The module using information from the window activity detection module senses that entire LCD screen is occupied by the second window at the second instance of time. The module triggers all the liquid crystal pixels of the LCD to be driven by a single drive voltage that is sufficient for proper display of the word processor. The pixel behavior determination module and the window activity detection module cause saving in power by driving the liquid crystal pixels at optimum drive voltages. A power management block that runs on the CPU which may be software and or hardware also functions to assist in power savings operations.

A LCD drive override module causes a change in drive voltages of pixels based on an input entered via the user input interface . The user input interface is one or more of a variety of a keyboard and a mouse a touch screen a joystick a pen and a touch pad a thumbwheel etc. The LCD drive override module may be software that runs on the CPU . A user inputs a data using the user input interface in an applet that shows current pixel drive settings and a range of possible pixel drive settings. The applet forwards the data to the LCD drive override module which in response to the data determines new pixel drive settings based on the data and instructs the pixel behavior determination module to drive the pixels of the LCD with the new pixel drive settings. The pixel behavior determination module ceases to monitor changes in pixel properties between frames of a video and modify pixel drive powers as long as the LCD drive override module continues to override the pixel drive settings. The LCD drive override module is adapted to override the pixel drive settings for a short period of time for example a few minutes. The pixel drive settings revealed by the applet to the user comprise one or more of for example and without limitation i range of speeds of video supported by the LCD on a 5 point relative scale and ii possible values for brightness of the LCD screen on a 3 point relative scale. As an example the data entered by the user asks for a video speed 3 and LCD brightness 3. In response to the data the LCD drive override module instructs the pixel behavior determination module to drive all the pixels of the LCD at maximum brightness and at medium response time that is sufficient to display videos of medium speed i.e. videos having a speed 3 on the 5 point relative scale. The pixel behavior determination module determines desired pixel response time corresponding to desired screen brightness and desired video speed support and informs the display card about the desired pixel response time.

The pixel behavior determination module causes pixels of the LCD screen to be driven at different drive voltages wherein the drive voltages are selected by the TFT controller from a range of continually variable drive voltages. Alternately the TFT controller can select the pixel drive voltages from a list of predefined drive voltages. The list of predefined drive voltages may again vary from pixel to pixel of the LCD .

As an example a video game requires a relatively larger number of frames or images to be displayed per second on the LCD so that fast moving objects in the video game appear properly on the LCD . The content of images change slowly between consecutive frames in a word processor application because the change in the contents of the images depend on how fast a user of the word processor enters data via the user input interface . A first application for example the video game a second application for example the word processor and a third application for example a media player store the corresponding minimum display characteristics in a first registry a second registry and a third registry respectively. The display driver retrieves a minimum display characteristic corresponding to an application from the corresponding registry when the application starts. The display driver determines LCD drive voltage based on the minimum display characteristic and directs the display card to drive all the pixels of the LCD at the determined drive voltage as long as the application runs on the CPU . As a way of example a spreadsheet application and a browser are running simultaneously on the CPU and are displayed on the LCD screen on a first window and a second window respectively. The display driver directs the display card to apply a first drive voltage to all pixels of the first window wherein the first drive voltage corresponds to minimum display characteristic identified by the spreadsheet application. In addition the display driver directs the display card to apply a second drive voltage to all pixels of the second window wherein the second drive voltage corresponds to minimum display characteristic identified by the browser application. Pixels of the LCD screen that neither belong to the first window nor belong to the second window are driven by a third voltage that is determined by the pixel behavior determination module .

The CPU is powered by a battery when the device housing the CPU is unplugged. The battery interacts with the display driver via a power management block . The power management block may be software that runs on the CPU hardware or a combination of both. The power management block is adapted to override display characteristic setting when the battery power goes below a predefined value. In one embodiment the power management block is adapted to fully override the display characteristic setting. The power management block saves battery power by setting drive voltage of all pixels of the LCD to a low value corresponding to a slow video irrespective of type of one or more applications currently displayed on the LCD . In another embodiment the power management block is adapted to partially override the display characteristic setting. The block may define a set of possible display characteristics for example possible pixel action speeds and forces applications running on the CPU to identify a speed from the above set. The set of pixel action speeds as an example does not include a pixel action speed required for proper display of a video game. The power management block ensures that LCD is driven by low power when the battery power is below a predefined value. In such a case a video game running on the CPU ends up selecting a pixel action speed less than its requirement.

In another embodiment of the present invention the display driver does not drive pixels of a window to untwist quickly when a slow video is displayed on the window thereby saving power and allowing the liquid crystal pixels to untwist naturally. The liquid crystal pixels need a finite time to untwist naturally. The display driver applies a drive voltage to the pixels of the window for untwisting when a fast response time is required for properly displaying a fast video on the window. In yet another embodiment the TFT controller measures hysteresis or time lag between application of the drive voltage to the pixels of the window and formation of image on the window on the LCD screen . The hysteresis is due to finite time taken by the liquid crystal pixels to twist and or untwist. The TFT controller forwards the hysteresis value to the display driver via the display card . The display driver triggers the display card to increase the drive voltage of the pixels of the window in steps and consequently causing the hysteresis value to decrease until the hysteresis value goes below a predefined threshold. The display driver causes a decrease in the drive voltage of the pixels of the window if the hysteresis value is below the predefined threshold.

The CPU may also run a graphics API and the pixel behavior determination module that operate to process video according to the present invention. The operation of the pixel behavior determination module was described previously herein and is not described further with respect to .

The pixel behavior determination module forwards the pixel behavior types corresponding to each of the areas zones of the LCD to a pixel drive determination module in a step . The pixel drive determination module determines pixel drive settings such as pixel drive powers corresponding to the areas zones of the LCD based on the pixel behavior types and minimum possible response time of liquid crystal pixels. The pixel drive determination module sets pixel drive power for an area on the LCD that displays a game video to a higher value than pixel drive power for an another area on the LCD that displays a word processor because pixels under a higher drive power responds faster to input images thereby rendering fast changing images i.e. a high speed video on the LCD. The pixel drive determination module forwards the pixel drive settings to the graphics card in a step and the graphics card drives the area zones of LCD at the corresponding pixel drive settings. The method thereby enables adjusting drive power of pixels of the LCD on zonal basis in order to reduce total power consumption by all pixels of the LCD. The method then ends. In one embodiment the method is performed every time a new application starts running on the host device. In another embodiment the method is performed at regular intervals such as once every 5 minutes.

The terms circuit and circuitry as used herein may refer to an independent circuit or to a portion of a multifunctional circuit that performs multiple underlying functions. For example depending on the embodiment processing circuitry may be implemented as a single chip processor or as a plurality of processing chips. Likewise a first circuit and a second circuit may be combined in one embodiment into a single circuit or in another embodiment operate independently perhaps in separate chips. The term chip as used herein refers to an integrated circuit. Circuits and circuitry may comprise general or specific purpose hardware or may comprise such hardware and associated software such as firmware or object code.

The present invention has also been described above with the aid of method steps illustrating the performance of specified functions and relationships thereof. The boundaries and sequence of these functional building blocks and method steps have been arbitrarily defined herein for convenience of description. Alternate boundaries and sequences can be defined so long as the specified functions and relationships are appropriately performed. Any such alternate boundaries or sequences are thus within the scope and spirit of the claimed invention.

The present invention has been described above with the aid of functional building blocks illustrating the performance of certain significant functions. The boundaries of these functional building blocks have been arbitrarily defined for convenience of description. Alternate boundaries could be defined as long as the certain significant functions are appropriately performed. Similarly flow diagram blocks may also have been arbitrarily defined herein to illustrate certain significant functionality. To the extent used the flow diagram block boundaries and sequence could have been defined otherwise and still perform the certain significant functionality. Such alternate definitions of both functional building blocks and flow diagram blocks and sequences are thus within the scope and spirit of the claimed invention. One of average skill in the art will also recognize that the functional building blocks and other illustrative blocks modules and components herein can be implemented as illustrated or by discrete components application specific integrated circuits processors executing appropriate software and the like or any combination thereof.

As may be used herein the terms substantially and approximately provides an industry accepted tolerance for its corresponding term and or relativity between items. Such an industry accepted tolerance ranges from less than one percent to fifty percent and corresponds to but is not limited to component values integrated circuit process variations temperature variations rise and fall times and or thermal noise. Such relativity between items ranges from a difference of a few percent to magnitude differences. As may also be used herein the term s coupled to and or coupling and or includes direct coupling between items and or indirect coupling between items via an intervening item e.g. an item includes but is not limited to a component an element a circuit and or a module where for indirect coupling the intervening item does not modify the information of a signal but may adjust its current level voltage level and or power level. As may further be used herein inferred coupling i.e. where one element is coupled to another element by inference includes direct and indirect coupling between two items in the same manner as coupled to. As may even further be used herein the term operable to indicates that an item includes one or more of power connections input s output s etc. to perform one or more its corresponding functions and may further include inferred coupling to one or more other items. As may still further be used herein the term associated with includes direct and or indirect coupling of separate items and or one item being embedded within another item. As may be used herein the term compares favorably indicates that a comparison between two or more items signals etc. provides a desired relationship. For example when the desired relationship is that signal 1 has a greater magnitude than signal 2 a favorable comparison may be achieved when the magnitude of signal 1 is greater than that of signal 2 or when the magnitude of signal 2 is less than that of signal 1.

The present invention has also been described above with the aid of method steps illustrating the performance of specified functions and relationships thereof. The boundaries and sequence of these functional building blocks and method steps have been arbitrarily defined herein for convenience of description. Alternate boundaries and sequences can be defined so long as the specified functions and relationships are appropriately performed. Any such alternate boundaries or sequences are thus within the scope and spirit of the claimed invention.

Moreover although described in detail for purposes of clarity and understanding by way of the aforementioned embodiments the present invention is not limited to such embodiments. It will be obvious to one of average skill in the art that various changes and modifications may be practiced within the spirit and scope of the invention as limited only by the scope of the appended claims.

