---

title: Aldosterone induced vascular elastin production
abstract: Compositions and methods for inducing the deposition of elastin by administering compositions including a mineralocorticoid, such as, for example, aldosterone and, optionally, a secondary active agent for enhancing or modulating the effect of the mineralocorticoid are described herein.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09283236&OS=09283236&RS=09283236
owner: Human Matrix Sciences, LLC
number: 09283236
owner_city: Visalia
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131018
---
This application is a continuation application of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 937 534 filed Oct. 12 2010 which is an application filed under 35 U.S.C. 371 of International Application No. PCT US09 046 582 filed Jun. 8 2009 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 059 475 filed Jun. 6 2008 and U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 059 288 filed on Jun. 6 2008 all of which are herein incorporated by reference in their entirety.

Embodiments presented herein are useful for increasing elastogenesis in a post infarct heart and scarred vasculature and thus the such embodiments can counteract pathological fibrosis as well as heart stiffness and or and heart failure.

Embodiments presented herein include compositions for treatment of vascular tissues such as the heart with a mineralocorticoid and a secondary active agent selected from agents that reduce the net deposition of collagen agents that increase the expression or sensitivity of insulin growth factor receptor I and a combination thereof.

Various embodiments include a pharmaceutical composition including a therapeutically effective amount of mineralocorticoid and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient.

Various other embodiments include methods for increasing the net deposition of elastin such methods may include administering an effective amount of a mineralocorticoid to a subject in need thereof. In one embodiment the mineralocorticoid aldosterone is used to stimulate elastogenesis in an MR independent manner either alone or in combination with other agent wherein blocking MR coincides with elastic fiber production. In other embodiments corticosteroids having at least some mineralocorticoid activity such as for example deoxycorticosterone and fludrocortisones may be used.

Still other embodiments include a method for improving cardiac function such methods may include administering a pharmaceutical composition at least including an effective amount of a mineralocorticoid and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient to a subject in need thereof.

The methods disclosed herein maybe used to treat any condition such as alcoholic cardiomyopathy coronary artery disease congenital heart disease nutritional diseases affecting the heart ischemic cardiomyopathy hypertensive cardiomyopathy valvular cardiomyopathy inflammatory cardiomyopathy cardiomyopathy secondary to a systemic metabolic disease dilated cardiomyopathy DCM hypertrophic cardiomyopathy HCM arrhythmogenic right ventricular cardiomyopathy ARVC restrictive cardiomyopathy RCM noncompaction cardiomyopathy supravalvular aortic stenosis SVAS vascular scarring atherosclerosis chronic progressive glomerular disease glomerulosclerosis progressive renal failure vascular occlusion hypertension stenosis diabetic retinopathy as well as any combination thereof.

Before the present compositions and methods are described it is to be understood that this invention is not limited to the particular processes compositions or methodologies described as these may vary. It is also to be understood that the terminology used in the description is for the purpose of describing the particular versions or embodiments only and is not intended to limit the scope of the present invention which will be limited only by the appended claims. Unless defined otherwise all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meanings as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art. Although any methods and materials similar or equivalent to those described herein can be used in the practice or testing of embodiments of the present invention the preferred methods devices and materials are now described. All publications mentioned herein are incorporated by reference in their entirety. Nothing herein is to be construed as an admission that the invention is not entitled to antedate such disclosure by virtue of prior invention.

It must be noted that as used herein and in the appended claims the singular forms a an and the include plural reference unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Thus for example reference to a fibroblast is a reference to one or more fibroblasts and equivalents thereof known to those skilled in the art.

As used herein all claimed numeric terms are to be read as being preceded by the term about which means plus or minus 10 of the numerical value of the number with which it is being used. Therefore a claim to 50 means about 50 and encompasses the range of 45 55 .

 Administering when used in conjunction with a therapeutic means to administer a therapeutic directly into or onto a target tissue or to administer a therapeutic to a patient whereby the therapeutic positively impacts the tissue to which it is targeted. Thus as used herein the term administering when used in conjunction with aldosterone or any other composition described herein can include but is not limited to providing aldosterone locally by administering aldosterone into or onto the target tissue providing aldosterone systemically to a patient by for example intravenous injection whereby the therapeutic reaches the target tissue or providing aldosterone in the form of the encoding sequence thereof to the target tissue e.g. by so called gene therapy techniques . Administering a composition may be accomplished by any mode including parenteral administration including injection oral administration topical administration pleural infusion pericardial infusion or by any other method known in the art including for example electrical deposition e.g. iontophoresis and ultrasound e.g. sonophoresis . In certain embodiments the compositions described herein may be administered in combination with another form of therapy including for example radiation therapy infrared therapy ultrasound therapy or any other therapy know in the art or described herein.

In certain embodiments the compositions may be combined with a carrier. A carrier as used herein may include but is not limited to an irrigation solution antiseptic solution other solution time released composition elution composition bandage dressing colloid suspension e.g. a cream gel or salve internal or external dissolvable sutures dissolvable beads dissolvable sponges and or other materials or compositions known now or hereafter to a person of ordinary skill in the art.

The term animal as used herein includes but is not limited to humans and non human vertebrates such as wild domestic and farm animals.

The term improves is used to convey that the present invention changes either the appearance form characteristics and or the physical attributes of the tissue to which it is being provided applied or administered. The change in form may be demonstrated by any of the following alone or in combination enhanced deposition of elastin increased elasticity of the cardiac tissue reduced scar tissue formation increased cardiac output or any other such improvement recognized in the art or described herein.

The term inhibiting includes the administration of a compound of the present invention to prevent the onset of the symptoms alleviating the symptoms or eliminating the disease condition or disorder.

By pharmaceutically acceptable it is meant that the carrier diluent or excipient must be compatible with the other ingredients of the formulation and not deleterious to the recipient thereof. By excipient it is meant any inert or otherwise non active ingredient which can be added to the active ingredient which may improve the overall composition s properties such as improving shelf life improving retention time at the application site improving flowability improving consumer acceptance et alia.

Unless otherwise indicated the term cardiac means pertaining to the heart and related tissues. The term vascular encompasses cardiac tissue as well as any other blood bearing tissue such as veins arteries capillaries and others.

As used herein the term therapeutic means an agent utilized to treat combat ameliorate prevent or improve an unwanted condition or disease of a patient.

A therapeutically effective amount or effective amount of a composition is a predetermined amount calculated to achieve the desired effect i.e. to increase production of elastin or the deposition of elastic fibers. For example a therapeutic effect may be demonstrated by increased elastogenesis increased cellular proliferation increased digestion or resorption of scar material reduction of symptoms and sequellae as well as any other therapeutic effect known in the art. The activity contemplated by the present methods includes both medical therapeutic and or prophylactic treatment as appropriate. The specific dose of a compound administered according to this invention to obtain therapeutic and or prophylactic effects will of course be determined by the particular circumstances surrounding the case including for example the compound administered the route of administration the physical characteristics of the patient height weight etc. and the condition being treated. It will be understood that the effective amount administered will be determined by the physician in light of the relevant circumstances including the condition to be treated the choice of compound to be administered and the chosen route of administration and therefore the dosage ranges provided are not intended to limit the scope of the invention in any way. A therapeutically effective amount of compound of this invention is typically an amount such that when it is administered in a physiologically tolerable excipient composition it is sufficient to achieve an effective systemic concentration or local concentration in the tissue.

The terms treat treated or treating as used herein refers to both therapeutic treatment and prophylactic or preventative measures wherein the object is to prevent or slow down lessen an undesired physiological condition disorder or disease or to obtain beneficial or desired clinical results. For the purposes of this invention beneficial or desired clinical results include but are not limited to alleviation of symptoms diminishment of the extent of the condition disorder or disease stabilization i.e. not worsening of the state of the condition disorder or disease delay in onset or slowing of the progression of the condition disorder or disease amelioration of the condition disorder or disease state and remission whether partial or total whether detectable or undetectable or enhancement or improvement of the condition disorder or disease. Treatment includes eliciting a clinically significant response without excessive levels of side effects. Treatment also includes prolonging survival as compared to expected survival if not receiving treatment.

Generally speaking the term tissue refers to any aggregation of similarly specialized cells which are united in the performance of a particular function. As used herein tissue unless otherwise indicated refers to tissue which includes elastin as part of its necessary structure and or function. For example connective tissue which is made up of among other things collagen fibrils and elastin fibrils satisfies the definition of tissue as used herein. Additionally elastin appears to be involved in the proper function of blood vessels veins and arteries in their inherent visco elasticity.

The extracellular matrix ECM is made up of fibronectin laminin collagen and elastic fibers as well as numerous glycosaminoglycans and protoglycans. These ECM components are organized into a network of rope like structures which underlies many tissues such as blood vessels skin tendons ligaments and lungs. Of these ECM components elastin is unique in that it can be stretched to over 150 percent of its original length and rapidly returns to its original size and shape. This property provides tissues in which elastin is incorporated with the ability to resume their original form after stretching. Therefore elastin and elastin fibers allow these tissues to maintain the resiliency stretchability and shape of these tissues.

Elastic fiber formation elastogenesis is a complex process involving intracellular and extracellular events. Cells such as fibroblasts endothelial cells chondroblasts or vascular smooth muscle cells first synthesize and secrete glycoproteins that form a microfibrillilar scaffold into the extracellular space. Tropoelastin the soluble precursor peptide of elastin is synthesized in these cells by ribosomes in the rough endoplasmatic reticulum and transported through the Golgi apparatus and secretory vesicles that deposit tropoelastin in the extracellular space. Once outside the cell tropoelastin is assembled into long chains and covalently cross linked by lysyl oxidase. During crosslinking unique composite amino acids desmosine and isodesmosine which join the tropoelastin chains are formed and insoluble elastin is created.

Elastin fibers are composed of two major components an amorphous elastin core which makes up the bulk 90 of the fiber and the 10 12 nm microfibrilary component surrounding the elastin core made up of glycoproteins such as for example fibrillins fibulins and microfibril associated glycoproteins MAGPs . Elastin may also be interwoven with non elastic collagen fibers to limit stretching and prevent tearing of certain tissues. Mature insoluble elastin is metabolically inert and remains the most durable element of extracellular matrix. In undisturbed tissues mature elastin may last for the lifetime of the tissue.

Deposition of elastin in the ECM appears to be controlled on both the transcriptional level tropoelastin mRNA message expression and post transcriptional level tropoelastin message stability . Other post transcriptional events which control secretion of tropoelastin monomers extracellular assembly of tropoelastin and regulation of cross linking of tropoelastin may also control elastin deposition.

The proper mechanical performance of the myocardium depends on the contractile properties of cardiac myocytes that are supported by the mechanical strength and resiliency of the extracellular matrix ECM . Following myocardial injury the cardiac ECM undergoes dynamic local remodeling which leads to the production of scar tissue. However overzealous ECM production in postinfarct hearts may lead to maladaptive fibrosis and contribute to heart failure.

Aldosterone is one of the major mediators involved in cardiac remodeling following cardiac stress and injury. It has been implicated in the maladaptive remodeling of postinfarct hearts. Its classic effect is attributed to mineralocorticoid receptor MR mediated salt and fluid retention related to the regulation of blood pressure homeostasis. Aldosterone has also been implicated in the stimulation of collagen synthesis and myocardial fibrosis through a process that is independent of its effect on blood pressure. It should also be noted that in vivo models of exogenous aldosterone administration produce an extensive MR mediated cardiac pathology fibrosis .

Even though cardiac fibrosis substantially contributes to cardiac dysfunction and arrhythmogenicity associated with sudden death the role of various ECM components including elastic fibers that provide resilience and elasticity to many tissues including stroma of the heart has not been adequately addressed.

It has been found that a mineralocorticoid receptor MR independent pathway exists for stimulation of fibroblasts which involves at least at some point the IGF IR receptor. This MR independent pathway can be stimulated by mineralocorticoids such as aldosterone which surprisingly will causes elastogenesis not collagen deposition or salt uptake as when aldosterone binds the cognate mineralocorticoid receptor. Thus by simultaneously down regulating the MR dependent pathway and upregulating the MR independent pathway it becomes possible to regulate both fibrosis collagen deposition and elastin production simultaneously.

Results disclosed herein show that although a MR antagonist inhibits or abolishes the collagenogenic effect of aldosterone it does not eliminate the elastogenic effect of this hormone. In fact pretreatment with spironolactone supports an aldosterone induced increase in the net deposition of elastic fibers. This indicates that the beneficial cardioprotective effect of MR antagonist s may also be attributed to the deposition of new elastic fibers that may result in the formation of a resilient scar rather than a stiff collagenous scar that could hinder cardiac muscle contraction and relaxation and further that mineralocorticoids can produce a cardioprotective effect if administered in conjunction with MR antagonists.

In certain embodiments the concentration of aldosterone is in the range of 1 2 M. In other embodiments the concentration of spironolactone is in the range of 10 20 M. However these dosages may be adjusted since there is virtually no danger of a systemic overdose. As such aldosterone and any other mineralocorticoid equivalents such as deoxycorticosterone and fludrocortisones may be administered either alone or in combination with any other active agent at 0.01 M 0.1 M 1.0 M 2.0 M 5.0 M 10.0 M 20.0 M 50 M 100 M and any range therebetween. Similarly spironolactone and any other mineralocorticoid receptor antagonists such as eplerenone and canrenone may be administered at any suitable dose either alone or in combination with another active agent such as aldosterone at 0.01 M 0.1 M 1.0 M 2.0 M 5.0 M 10 M 20 M 50 M 100 M 200 M and any range therebetween. Those of ordinary skill in the art recognize that such dosages can be calculated per liter of compound. Whatever route of administration or type of pharmaceutical dosage form is used the dosage range can be from about 0.5 to about 30 mg kg of patient body weight or about 350 to about 2 000 mg and about 500 to about 1 500 mg although dosage amounts towards the lower end of these range would be useful for parenteral administration. See also U.S. Provisional Patent Application 60 943 305 filed Jun. 6 2007 PCT Application No. U.S. Ser. No. 08 066 131 filed Jun. 6 2008 and U.S. application Ser. No. 12 157 141 filed on Jun. 6 2008 each of which are herein incorporated by reference in their entirety.

Embodiments presented herein are generally directed to compositions including at least one mineralocorticoid and methods of using such compositions for the treatment of tissue.

The composition of various embodiments may include any mineralocorticoid known in the art including for example aldosterone. Other embodiments include pharmaceutical compositions including a mineralocorticoid and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier diluent or excipient and in certain embodiments the compositions or pharmaceutical compositions may include secondary active agents which enhances or improves the function of the mineralocorticoid. Such compositions may be formulated in any way. For example in various embodiments the compositions may be formulated as a liquid solid gel lotion or cream and the formulation of the composition may vary among embodiments depending on the mode of administration of the compositions.

In some embodiments corticosteroids having at least some mineralocorticoid activity such as for example deoxycorticosterone and fludrocortisones may be used in place of or in combination with the mineralocorticoids of the compositions and pharmaceutical compositions described above. Without wishing to be bound by theory such corticosteroids may affect tissue treated therewith in the same manner as mineralocorticoids such as aldosterone.

In various embodiments the mineralocorticoid may interact with cells such as for example fibroblasts and the like and induce the production of elastin by these cells or increase the deposition of the elastin into the extracellular space surrounding these cells. In certain embodiments aldosterone may interact with such cells in a mineralocorticoid receptor MR independent manner. Thus in some embodiments aldosterone may be administered in combination with a secondary active agent. As used herein the term secondary active agent is intended to mean a pharmacologically active compound administered in conjunction with a mineralocorticoid. As such in certain embodiments secondary active agent include those that inhibits collagen synthesis by inhibiting MR stimulation or deposition associated with MR stimulation reduces the synthesis or deposition of collagen in activated cells inhibiting factors associated with collagen synthesis or factors associated with collagen deposition and combinations of these while maintaining or enhancing production of elastin or elastin fibers. Without wishing to be bound by theory inhibition of collagen synthesis or deposition of collagen may enhance the effectiveness of various embodiments by producing a net increase in deposition of elastin fibers while reducing the net deposition of collagen which may be associated with for example scar tissue. Therefore in some embodiments aldosterone may be administered in combination with an agent that inhibits MR activation or collagen synthesis associated with MR stimulation or inhibits collagen synthesis throughout effected cells. For example in an embodiment aldosterone may be administered in combination with mineralocorticoid receptor antagonist such as eplerenone canrenone spirolactone et alia which are synthetic lactone drugs that act as a competitive aldosterone antagonist. In yet another embodiment a mineralocorticoid such as aldosterone may be administered in combination with an MR binding antibody such as for example mineralocorticoid receptor antibody H10E4C9F mineralocorticoid receptor antibody H3122 Mouse Anti Human NR3C2 Monoclonal Antibody Clone 2B5 Mouse Anti Human Mineralocorticoid R aa 1 670 Clone 385707 et alia disclosed herein or described in the art.

The mineralocorticoid or aldosterone of various embodiments may interact with cells such as for example fibroblasts in an insulin growth factor receptor I IGF IR dependent manner. Therefore in some embodiments aldosterone may be administered in combination with an agent that enhances the pro elastogenic effect of IGF IR stimulation or stimulates the synthesis of IGF IR IGF IR kinase or other components of the IGF IR signaling pathway and combinations thereof. Without wishing to be bound by theory enhancing the ability of a cell to be stimulated by aldosterone by increasing the expression of IGF IR or the sensitivity of IGF IR on the cell surface may increase the net deposition of elastin fibers in treated tissue thereby enhancing the effectiveness of such treatment. By increased expression it is intended to mean an effect on any pathway that leads to an increase of the number of functional protein molecules and includes for example increased IGF IR mRNA synthesis increased IGF IR mRNA stability increased anabolism of the protein decreased catabolism of the protein and any other pathway by which expression can be increased. By increased sensitivity it is intended to mean increasing the responsiveness of the protein to its ligand which can occur in any manner including crosslinking of receptors conformational changes in the receptors phosphorylation dephosphorylation of the receptor or any other mechanism by which sensitivity can be increased.

The compositions described in the embodiments above may be administered to any tissue in need of enhanced elastin deposition. For example in some embodiments such compositions may be administered to ischemic vascular tissues including cardiac tissue scarred vascular tissues including cardiac tissue growing and or regrowing vascular tissues including cardiac tissue. In other embodiments the composition may be administered to cells and tissues associated with trauma or excessive collagen formation.

In embodiments wherein aldosterone is administered in combination with a secondary active agent the combination may be administered as a single unit wherein the aldosterone and secondary active agent are combined to form a single tablet or injectable emulsion for example. In other embodiments aldosterone may be administered separately from the secondary active agent and in particular embodiments the one component may be administered at a separate time from the other component. For example in one embodiment the secondary active agent may be administered first to prepare the target tissue by for example increasing IGF IR expression and aldosterone may be administered at a later time.

Methods of embodiments generally include administering a composition or pharmaceutical composition including a mineralocorticoid to a subject or patient in need of treatment. Pharmaceutical compositions useful in various embodiments may be administered to treat ameliorate or alleviate symptoms associated with various diseases that may be identified by inability to produce elastin or elastin fibers or functional elastin or elastin fibers loss of functional elastin or elastin fibers or the lack or loss of deposition of elastin or elastin fibers in the subject s tissue. Such diseases include alcoholic cardiomyopathy coronary artery disease congenital heart disease nutritional diseases affecting the heart ischemic cardiomyopathy hypertensive cardiomyopathy valvular cardiomyopathy inflammatory cardiomyopathy cardiomyopathy secondary to a systemic metabolic disease dilated cardiomyopathy DCM hypertrophic cardiomyopathy HCM arrhythmogenic right ventricular cardiomyopathy ARVC restrictive cardiomyopathy RCM noncompaction cardiomyopathy supravalvular aortic stenosis SVAS as well as vascular scarring diseases including atherosclerosis chronic progressive glomerular disease e.g. diabetic induced glomerulosclerosis progressive renal failure after renal transplantation occlusion of shunts used to provide vascular access in patents with end stage renal disease being treated with hemodialysis other chronic small blood vessel diseases such as in some patients with hypertension recurrence of stenosis in patients who have undergone coronary bypass surgery diabetic retinopathy and any combination thereof.

In certain embodiments a method of administering an effective amount of aldosterone in a patient in need thereof is described. Yet in another embodiment the method of treating cardiac dysfunction by administering an effective amount of aldosterone in a patient in need thereof is described. Additionally the method of administering an effective amount of aldosterone in a patient in need thereof is to improve the ejection fraction in a heart of a patient in need thereof.

Various embodiments therefore include pharmaceutical compositions having a mineralocorticoid or combination of a mineralocorticoid and a secondary active agent of embodiments described above and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier diluent or excipient or an effective amount of a pharmaceutical composition including a mineralocorticoid or combination of a mineralocorticoid and a secondary active agent as defined above and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier diluent or excipient.

The compounds of the various embodiments may be administered in a conventional manner by any route by which they retain activity. For example a mineralocorticoid or combination of a mineralocorticoid and a secondary active agent of embodiments may be administered by routes including but not limited to topical parenteral pleural pericardial subcutaneous intravenous intraperitoneal transdermal oral buccal inhalation depot injection or implantation. Thus modes of administration for the compounds either alone or in combination with other pharmaceuticals can be but are not limited to sublingual injectable including short acting depot implant and pellet forms injected subcutaneously or intramuscularly or by use of vaginal creams suppositories pessaries vaginal rings rectal suppositories intrauterine devices and transdermal and topical forms such as patches and creams.

Specific modes of administration will depend on the indication and other factors including the particular compound being administered. The selection of the specific route of administration and the dose regimen is to be adjusted or titrated by the clinician according to methods known to the clinician in order to obtain the optimal clinical response. In still other embodiments the compositions may be administered both systemically and topically.

The amount of the compositions of various embodiments to be administered is an amount that is therapeutically effective and the dosage administered may depend on the characteristics of the subject being treated. For example the dosage may depend on the particular animal treated the age weight and health of the subject the types of concurrent treatment if any and frequency of treatments. Many of these factors can be easily determined by one of skill in the art e.g. by the clinician .

Various pharmaceutical formulations include those containing an effective amount the compounds and a suitable carrier diluent or excipient can be in solid dosage forms including but not limited to tablets capsules cachets pellets pills powders and granules topical dosage forms including but not limited to solutions powders fluid emulsions fluid suspensions semi solids ointments pastes creams lotions gels jellies and foams and parenteral dosage forms including but not limited to solutions suspensions emulsions and dry powders. The active ingredients can be contained in such formulations with pharmaceutically acceptable diluents fillers disintegrants binders lubricants surfactants hydrophobic vehicles water soluble vehicles emulsifiers buffers humectants moisturizers solubilizers preservatives and the like.

The means and methods for administration of such pharmaceutical formulations are known in the art and an artisan can refer to various pharmacologic references such as for example Banker Rhodes Marcel Dekker Inc. 1979 and 6th Edition MacMillan Publishing Co. New York 1980 for guidance. For example in some embodiments the compounds can be formulated for parenteral administration by injection and in one embodiment the compounds can be administered by continuous infusion subcutaneously over a period of about 15 minutes to about 24 hours. In another embodiment formulations for injection can be presented in unit dosage form e.g. in ampoules or in multi dose containers with an added preservative. In still other embodiments the compositions can take such forms as suspensions solutions or emulsions in oily or aqueous vehicles and can contain formulatory agents such as suspending stabilizing and or dispersing agents.

For certain embodiments encompassing oral administration the compounds can be formulated readily by combining these compounds with pharmaceutically acceptable carriers known in the art. Such carriers enable the compounds to be formulated as tablets pills dragees capsules liquids gels syrups slurries suspensions and the like for oral ingestion by a patient to be treated. Pharmaceutical preparations for oral use can be obtained by adding a solid excipient optionally grinding the resulting mixture and processing the mixture of granules after adding suitable auxiliaries if desired to obtain tablets or dragee cores. Suitable excipients include but are not limited to fillers. If desired disintegrating agents such as but not limited to the cross linked polyvinyl pyrrolidone agar or alginic acid or a salt thereof such as sodium alginate may be added.

Dragee cores can be provided with suitable coatings. For this purpose concentrated sugar solutions can be used which can optionally contain gum arabic talc polyvinyl pyrrolidone carbopol gel polyethylene glycol and or titanium dioxide lacquer solutions and suitable organic solvents or solvent mixtures. Dyestuffs or pigments can be added to the tablets or dragee coatings for identification or to characterize different combinations of active compound doses.

Pharmaceutical preparations which can be used orally also include but are not limited to push fit capsules made of gelatin as well as soft sealed capsules made of gelatin and a plasticizer such as glycerol or sorbitol. The push fit capsules can contain the active ingredients in a mixture with filler such as binders and or lubricants such as for example talc or magnesium stearate and optionally stabilizers. In soft capsules the active compounds can be dissolved or suspended in suitable liquids such as fatty oils liquid paraffin or liquid polyethylene glycols. In addition stabilizers can be added. All formulations for oral administration should be in dosages suitable for such administration.

For buccal administration the compositions can take the form of for example tablets or lozenges formulated in a conventional manner.

For administration by inhalation the compounds for use according to the present invention are conveniently delivered in the form of an aerosol spray presentation from pressurized packs or a nebulizer with the use of a suitable propellant e.g. dichlorodifluoromethane trichlorofluoromethane dichlorotetrafluoroethane carbon dioxide or other suitable gas. In the case of a pressurized aerosol the dosage unit can be determined by providing a valve to deliver a metered amount. Capsules and cartridges of e.g. gelatin for use in an inhaler or insufflator can be formulated containing a powder mix of the compound and a suitable powder base such as lactose or starch.

The compounds of the present invention can also be formulated in rectal compositions such as suppositories or retention enemas for example containing conventional suppository bases such as cocoa butter or other glycerides.

In addition to the formulations described previously the compounds of the present invention can also be formulated as a depot preparation. Such long acting formulations can be administered by implantation for example subcutaneously intramuscularly or intracardialy or by direct injection. Depot injections can be administered at about 1 to about 6 months or longer intervals. Thus for example the compounds can be formulated with suitable polymeric or hydrophobic materials for example as an emulsion in an acceptable oil or ion exchange resins or as sparingly soluble derivatives for example as a sparingly soluble salt.

In transdermal administration the compounds of the present invention can for example be applied to a plaster or can be applied by transdermal therapeutic systems that are consequently supplied to the organism.

Pharmaceutical compositions of the compounds also can include suitable solid or gel phase carriers or excipients. Examples of such carriers or excipients include but are not limited to calcium carbonate calcium phosphate gelatin and polymers such as for example polyethylene glycols.

The compounds of the present invention can also be administered in combination with other active ingredients such as for example adjuvants protease inhibitors or other compatible drugs or compounds where such combination is seen to be desirable or advantageous in achieving the desired effects of the methods described herein.

Yet in another embodiment the mineralocorticoid increases the net deposition of elastin in a mineralocorticoid receptor independent manner.

In selected embodiments the mineralocorticoid is selected from aldosterone fludrocortisones and deoxycorticosterone.

In one embodiment the secondary active agent is selected from inhibitors of mineralocorticoid receptors inhibitors of mineralocorticoid receptor stimulation inhibitors of collagen synthesis inhibitors of collagen deposition inhibitors of factors associated with collagen synthesis inhibitors of factors associated with collagen deposition and combinations thereof.

In certain embodiments the secondary active agent is selected from the group consisting of spironolactone and mineralocorticoid receptor neutralizing antibodies. Additionally in another embodiment the secondary active agent is selected from the group consisting of agents that stimulate synthesis of insulin growth factor receptor I agents that stimulate synthesis of insulin growth factor receptor I kinase agents that stimulate components of the insulin growth factor receptor I signaling pathway and combinations thereof.

In another embodiment a pharmaceutical composition comprising a mineralocorticoid in an amount sufficient increase elastin production by cardiac fibroblasts to a subject in need thereof and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient is described.

Yet in another embodiment the mineralocorticoid increases the net deposition of elastin in a heart. In another embodiment the mineralocorticoid is selected from the group consisting of aldosterone fludrocortisones and deoxycorticosterone.

In another embodiment the pharmaceutical composition is formulated to be administered by a mode selected from the group consisting of topical parenteral plural infusion pericardial infusion subcutaneous intravenous intraperitoneal transdermal oral buccal inhalation depot injection and implantation.

In another embodiment the collagen inhibitor reduces the net deposition of collagen in a heart. In other embodiments the collagen inhibitor is selected from the group consisting of inhibitors of mineralocorticoid receptors inhibitors of mineralocorticoid receptor stimulation inhibitors of collagen synthesis inhibitors of collagen deposition inhibitors of factors associated with collagen synthesis inhibitors of factors associated with collagen deposition and combinations thereof. Additionally in certain embodiments collagen inhibitor of the pharmaceutical composition is selected from the group consisting of spironolactone and mineralocorticoid receptor neutralizing antibodies.

In another embodiment the pharmaceutical composition further comprising an agent that increases the expression or sensitivity of insulin growth factor receptor I.

In another embodiment the agent in the pharmaceutical composition is selected from the group consisting of agents that stimulate synthesis of insulin growth factor receptor I agents that activate insulin growth factor receptor I agents that stimulate synthesis of insulin growth factor receptor I kinase agents that stimulate components of the insulin growth factor receptor I signaling pathway and combinations thereof.

Further embodiment of the present invention encompasses a method for increasing the net deposition of elastin in a heart comprising administering a composition comprising an effective amount of a mineralcorticoid to a subject a polypeptide fragment as disclosed in U.S. application Ser. No. 10 778 253 filed on Feb. 13 2004 U.S. application Ser. No. 11 435 563 filed on May 17 2006 U.S. Application No. 60 575 737 filed on May 28 2004 U.S. application Ser. No. 11 394 345 filed on Mar. 29 2006 and U.S. application Ser. No. 11 405 843 filed on Apr. 17 2006 which are all incorporated by reference therein and combinations thereof. In certain embodiments a mineralcorticoid is aldosterone.

In one embodiment a method for increasing the net deposition of elastin in a heart comprising administering a composition comprising an effective amount of a mineralcorticoid to a subject a polypeptide fragment comprising VGAMPG SEQ ID NO. 1 VGLSPG SEQ ID NO. 2 IGAMPG SEQ ID NO. 3 and IGLSPG SEQ ID NO. 4 and combinations thereof is described. In certain embodiments a mineralcorticoid is aldosterone.

This invention and embodiments illustrating the method and materials used may be further understood by reference to the following non limiting examples.

All chemical grade reagents aldosterone spironolactone doxycycline RU 486 mifepristone proteinase inhibitors agarose linked protein A pertussis toxin recombinant human insulin like growth factor I IGF I insulin like growth factor receptor I IGF IR inhibitor AG 1024 epidermal growth factor receptor EGFR inhibitor AG 1478 platelet derived growth factor receptor inhibitor AG 1295 and transforming growth factor receptor inhibitor SB 431542 were obtained from Sigma St. Louis Mo. . Iscove s modified Dulbecco s medium fetal bovine serum 0.2 trypsin 0.02 ethylenediamine tetraacetic acid and other cell culture products were acquired from Gibco Life Technologies Burlington ON Canada . Polyclonal antibody to tropoelastin was purchased from Elastin Products Owensville Mich. . Polyclonal collagen type I antibody was purchased from Chemicon Temecula Calif. . Monoclonal antibody against phosphotyrosine PY99 and polyclonal antibody against IGF IR were obtained from Santa Cruz Biotechnology Santa Cruz Calif. . IGF IR blocking monoclonal antibody was purchased from EMD Biosciences San Diego Calif. . Fluorescein conjugated goat anti rabbit and fluorescein conjugated rabbit anti goat secondary antibodies were purchased from Sigma and Chemicon respectively. Species and type specific secondary antibodies conjugated to horseradish peroxidase an enhanced chemiluminescence kit and the radiolabeled reagent H valine were purchased from Amersham Biosciences Canada Ltd. Oakville ON Canada . A DNeasy tissue system for DNA assay and an RNeasy Mini Kit for isolating total RNA were purchased from Qiagen Mississauga ON Canada as well as a One Step RT PCR Kit. Bovine serum albumin conjugated aldosterone aldo BSA was purchased from Fitzgerald Industries Int. Concord Mass. as specified by the manufacturer 25 aldosterone molecules are covalently linked to each BSA molecule through a carboxymethyl oxime residue on the C3 of the hormone forming a stable conjugate.

Cardiac fibroblasts were isolated from human fetal hearts which are responsible for the production of cardiac ECM . Human fetal cardiac fibroblasts of 20 to 22 weeks of gestation were prepared in accordance with an Institutional Review Board approved protocol. Confluent cultures were passaged by trypsinization and maintained in Iscove s modified Dulbecco s medium supplemented with 1 antibiotics antimycotics and 10 fetal bovine serum. Passage 1 to 3 cells were used in all experiments. The purity of these cultures at passage 1 was 95 . Cardiac fibroblasts were identified by positive staining for vimentin and negative for von Willebrand factor and smooth muscle cell actin.

In experiments aimed at assessing ECM production fibroblasts were initially plated 100 000 cells dish and maintained in a normal medium until confluence the point at which they produce abundant ECM. Confluent cultures were then treated for 72 hours with or without 1 to 50 nmol L aldosterone.

In separate experiments the influence of an equimolar concentration of aldosterone was tested by coupling it to BSA which prevents it from penetrating into the cell interior. The aldosterone receptor antagonist spironolactone the glucocorticoid receptor antagonist RU 486 and the following IGF IR EGFR platelet derived growth factor receptor and transforming growth factor receptor inhibitors AG 1024 AG 1478 AG 1295 and SB 431542 respectively as well as the G protein inhibitor pertussis toxin and the protein kinase C inhibitor staurosporine and IGF IR neutralizing antibody were added 1 hour before aldosterone treatment. Control cell cultures received an equal amount of the solvent vehicle. To eliminate the possibility that the observed effects were restricted to the fetal cardiac fibroblasts the influence of aldosterone on elastogenesis in cultures of commercially available adult human cardiac fibroblasts was also tested. ScienCell San Diego Calif. .

At the end of the 72 hour incubation period with the indicated treatment confluent cultures were either fixed in ice cold 100 methanol at 20 C. for elastin staining or in 4 paraformaldehyde at room temperature for collagen staining for 30 minutes and blocked with 1 normal goat serum for 1 hour at room temperature. The cultures were then incubated for 1 hour with 10 g ml polyclonal antibody to tropoelastin or with 10 g ml polyclonal antibody to collagen type I. All cultures were then incubated for an additional hour with fluorescein conjugated goat anti rabbit or with fluorescein conjugated rabbit anti goat secondary antibodies to detect elastin and collagen type I staining respectively. Nuclei were counterstained with propidium iodide. Secondary antibody alone was used as a control. All of the cultures were then mounted in Elvanol and examined with a Nikon Eclipse E1000 microscope attached to a cooled charge coupled device camera Retiga EX QImaging Surrey BC Canada and a computer generated video analysis system Image Pro Plus software Media Cybernetics Silver Spring Md. .

Fetal human cardiac fibroblasts were grown to confluence in 35 mm culture dishes 100 000 cells dish in quadruplicate. Then 2 Ci of H valine ml of fresh media were added to each dish along with or without 1 to 50 nmol L aldosterone in the presence and absence of spironolactone. Cultures were incubated for 72 hours and the soluble and insoluble elastin were assessed separately in each dish. The cells were extensively washed with phosphate buffered saline and the soluble proteins present in the intracellular compartments were extracted overnight at 4 C. with 0.1 mol L acetic acid in the presence of proteinase inhibitors. After centrifugation the supernatants were precleaned by 30 minute incubation with 50 l of 4 protein A beaded agarose and then 500 l of the supernatant was incubated with 5 g of polyclonal antibody to tropoelastin for 2 hours and subsequently with 50 l of 4 protein A beaded agarose for 3 hours at 4 C. The protein A containing beads were sedimented by centrifugation washed with immunoprecipitation buffer mixed with scintillation fluid and counted. The remaining cultures containing cell remnants and deposited insoluble extracellular matrix were scraped and boiled in 500 l of 0.1 N NaOH for 30 minutes to solubilize all matrix components except elastin. The resulting pellets containing the insoluble elastin were then solubilized by boiling in 200 l of 5.7 N HCl for 1 hour and the aliquots were mixed in scintillation fluid and counted. Aliquots taken from each culture were also used for DNA determination according to Rodems and Spector using the DNeasy Tissue System from Qiagen. Final results reflecting amounts of metabolically labeled insoluble elastin in individual cultures were normalized per their DNA content and expressed as counts per minute per 1 g of DNA. In separate experiments the specified treatments as shown in the figure legends for and were added along with 2 Ci of 3H valine ml media to normal human skin fibroblasts grown to confluence in 35 mm culture dishes 100 000 cells dish in quadruplicate for 72 hours. The conditioned media were then removed the cell layers were washed and the incorporation of H valine into the insoluble elastin was assessed as described above.

Confluent fetal human cardiac fibroblast cultures were treated with or without the specified treatment shown in the figure legends for for 24 hours. Total RNA was extracted using the RNeasy Mini Kit according to the manufacturer s instructions 1 g of total RNA was added to each one step RT PCR Qiagen One Step RT PCR Kit and reactions were set up according to the manufacturer s instructions in a total volume of 25 l. The reverse transcription step was performed for elastin and glyceraldehyde 3 phosphate dehydrogenase GAPDH reactions at 50 C. for 30 minutes followed by 15 minutes at 95 C. The elastin PCR reaction sense primer 5 GGTGCGGTGGTTCCTCAGCCTGG 3 antisense primer 5 GGGCCTTGAGATAC CCCAGTG 3 designed to produce a 255 bp product was performed under the following conditions 25 cycles at 94 C. denaturation for 20 seconds 63 C. annealing for 20 seconds 72 C. extension for 1 minute and one cycle at 72 C. final extension for 10 minutes. The collagen type I PCR reaction sense primer 5 CCCACCAATCACCTGCGTACAGA 3 antisense primer 5 TTCTTGGTCGGTGGGTGACTCTGA 3 was performed under the following conditions 20 cycles at 94 C. denaturation for 30 seconds 58 C. annealing for 30 seconds 72 C. extension for 10 minutes and one cycle at 72 C. final extension for 10 minutes. The GAPDH PCR reaction sense primer 5 TCCACCACCCTGTTGCTGTAG 3 antisense primer 5 GACCACAGTCCATGCCATCACT 3 designed to produce a 450 bp product was performed under the following conditions 21 cycles at 94 C. denaturation for 20 seconds 58 C. annealing for 30 seconds 72 C. extension for 1 minute and one cycle at 72 C. final extension for 10 minutes. Five microliter samples of the elastin and GAPDH PCR products from each reaction were run on a 2 agarose gel and poststained with ethidium bromide. The amount of elastin mRNA was standardized relative to the amount of GAPDH mRNA.

Confluent fetal human cardiac fibroblast cultures were incubated for the indicated time in the presence or absence of 50 nmol L aldosterone or for 10 minutes with 100 ng ml IGF I as specified in the figure legend for . Parallel cultures were incubated in serum free conditions in the presence or absence of 50 nmol L aldosterone and incubated with or without 10 25 and 50 ng ml IGF I for 10 minutes. Cells were lysed using an radioimmunoprecipitation assay buffer 50 mmol L Tris HCl pH 7.4 150 mmol L NaCl 1 mmol L ethylenediamine tetraacetic acid 10 mmol L NaF 1 Triton X 100 0.1 sodium dodecyl sulfate 1 sodium deoxycholate containing a cocktail of antiproteases 20 g ml leupeptin 10 g ml aprotinin 0.1 mmol L phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride and 1 mmol L dithiothreitol and antiphosphates 200 mol L orthovanadate and 2 g ml pepstatin and 300 g of protein extract was incubated with an antibody against IGF IR for 1 hour at 4 C. followed by the addition of 4 protein A beaded agarose left overnight as previously described. The resulting protein antibody conjugate was centrifuged at 4 C. and washed four times with phosphate buffered saline. The final pellet was resuspended in sample buffer 0.5 mol L Tris HCl pH 6.8 10 sodium dodecyl sulfate 10 glycerol 4 2 B mercaptoethanol and 0.05 bromphenol blue and the mixture was boiled for 5 minutes. Proteins were resolved by 12 sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis transferred to nitrocellulose membranes and then immunoblotted with anti p Tyr or anti IGF IR antibodies. The degree of expression or phosphorylation of immunodetected signaling molecules was measured by densitometry.

In all biochemical studies quadruplicate samples in each experimental group were assayed in three separate experiments. Mean and standard deviations were calculated for each experimental group and statistical analyses were performed by analysis of variance. A P value of less than 0.05 was considered significant

It was first demonstrated that treatment of cultured human fetal cardiac fibroblasts with 1 to 50 nmol L aldosterone leads to a significant increase in the steady state level of collagen type I mRNA and to the subsequent deposition of collagen fibers . Then we found that pretreating cardiac fibroblasts with the MR antagonist spironolactone but not with the glucocorticoid receptor GR antagonist RU 486 1 mol L abrogated aldosterone induced collagen production . These results strongly indicate that the stimulatory effect of aldosterone on collagen production is mediated via MR activation.

Analysis of parallel cultures revealed that aldosterone also up regulated the effective expression of the elastin gene as detected by heightened elastin mRNA levels in a dose dependent manner . This was translated to a proportional increase in the net levels of newly synthesized metabolically labeled intracellular tropoelastin and in the net deposition of metabolically labeled insoluble elastin the major component of elastic fibers B D . It is also noted that raising aldosterone far above physiological levels 100 nmol L and 1 mol L did not produce any cytotoxic effects but led to a further increase in elastin production.

Surprisingly pretreatment of cardiac fibroblasts with spironolactone which eliminated any aldosterone induced increase in collagen type I production failed to prevent an aldosterone induced increase in elastin mRNA expression and in the net content of metabolically labeled intracellular tropoelastin and insoluble elastin . These observations suggest that aldosterone probably induces elastogenesis through an MR independent process. To exclude the possibility that the increase in elastin production following aldosterone treatment may be mediated through GR activation cardiac fibroblasts cultures were also preincubated with the GR antagonist RU 486 1 mol L in the presence of 1 to 50 nmol L aldosterone. Results demonstrated that RU 486 had no effect on the aldosterone induced increase in elastin mRNA levels .

To eliminate the possibility that the observed effects might be restricted to fetal cardiac fibroblasts stromal fibroblasts isolated from adult human hearts to test the influence of aldosterone on their elastogenic abilities. Results showed that the elastogenic response of adult cardiac fibroblasts to aldosterone and spironolactone was similar to that of their fetal counterparts .

To explore further the mechanism by which aldosterone induces elastogenesis in an MR independent manner membrane impermeable BSA conjugated aldosterone was used to determine whether aldosterone would induce elastogenesis by the stimulation of cell surface receptors without internalization. Treatment of cardiac fibroblast cultures with 1 10 or 50 nmol L aldosterone conjugated to BSA produced the same effect on elastin mRNA levels and consequent elastin production as treatment with equimolar free aldosterone .

To identify the putative cell surface residing component involved in the MR independent action of aldosterone the activation of selected cell surface receptors was blocked to test whether this might eliminate aldosterone induced elastogenesis. Results showed that pretreatment of cultured cardiac fibroblasts with inhibitors of selected growth factor receptors EGF AG 1478 transforming growth factor SB 431542 and platelet derived growth factor BB AG 1295 did not affect the aldosterone induced increase in elastin production. In addition treatment with G protein inhibitor pertussis toxin or staurosporine to inhibit protein kinase C activity did not abrogate the aldosterone induced increase in elastin production data not shown .

On the other hand blocking the IGF IR with a specific inhibitor AG 1024 eliminated the stimulatory effect of aldosterone on elastin mRNA expression and insoluble elastin production A C and E . Because AG 1024 specifically inhibits ligand stimulated autophosphorylation of the IGF IR but not of the insulin receptor it was proposed that aldosterone may engage IGF IR signaling to stimulate elastogenesis. In support blocking the IGF IR with 1 g ml IGF IR neutralizing antibody before aldosterone treatment eliminated the elastogenic effect A C and E . Furthermore results showed that treating cardiac fibroblasts with 100 ng ml IGF I led to an approximately threefold increase in elastin mRNA levels and in the net production of insoluble elastin. Results also showed that this increase could be prevented by pretreating the fibroblasts with 5 mol L AG 1024 or with 1 g ml IGF IR neutralizing antibody B and D .

To determine whether tyrosine phosphorylation of the IGF IR is affected by aldosterone treatment we performed IGF IR immunoprecipitation from cultures incubated in the presence and absence of 50 nmol L aldosterone for 10 15 30 and 60 minutes. Results showed that a 10 minute exposure to 50 nmol L aldosterone led to a transient increase in tyrosine phosphorylation of the IGF IR above basal level. Exposure for 10 minutes to 100 ng ml IGF I produced a very similar effect A and B . However whereas IGF I induced phosphorylation of its IGF IR both in the presence and in the absence of fetal bovine serum aldosterone induced a similar effect only in the presence of serum. These results suggest that aldosterone may facilitate but not induce IGF IR dependent signaling. In further experiments cultures treated with 50 nmol L aldosterone and 10 25 or 50 ng ml IGF I showed higher levels of IGF IR tyrosine phosphorylation than their respective counterparts treated with the same doses of IGF I alone .

Because membrane impermeable BSA conjugated aldosterone produced the same effect on elastin mRNA levels and consequent elastin production as treatment with equimolar free aldosterone it is possible that aldosterone may exert its MR independent effect by interaction with certain cell surface residing moieties. For example without being bound by theory aldosterone may exert its effect through an angiotensin II type I receptor which in turn could transactivate the IGF IR or it may involve cytosolic tyrosine kinases of the c Src family which have been shown to transactivate EGFR in response to aldosterone treatment.

Data from a parallel study that was conducted on a rat myocardial infarction model indicated that animals treated with eplerenone during the postinfarction period produced scars with abundant elastic fibers that replaced the mostly collagenous scars seen in vehicle treated animals.

The effect of elastin production on pulmonary fibroblasts is tested by adding aldosterone to pulmonary fibroblasts with or without spironolactone. These data demonstrate the feasibility of using such an approach to treat pulmonary dysfunctions related to scarring such as for example pulmonary fibrosis and emphysema. In some experiments spironolactone is administered in vivo as a tablet and aldosterone is inhaled.

The compositions disclosed herein are used to treat keloids. Specifically the keloid growth is treated with corticosteroids to decrease collagen production. Subsequently collagenase is administered at a site of scarring and then the aldosterone and spironolactone is administered. In some experiments aldosterone is administered locally as a cream injection and spironolactone is administered as a tablet.

Aldosterone which stimulates collagen production through the mineralocorticoid receptor MR dependent pathway also induces elastogenesis via a parallel MR independent mechanism involving insulin like growth factor I receptor IGF IR signaling. Present invention demonstrates that siRNA driven elimination of MR in cardiac fibroblasts does not inhibit aldosterone induced IGF IR phosphorylation and subsequent increase in elastin production. These results exclude the involvement of the MR in aldosterone induced increases in elastin production. Results of further experiments aimed at identifying the upstream signaling component s that are activated by aldosterone also eliminate the putative involvement of pertussis toxin sensitive G i proteins which is responsible for some MR independent effects of aldosterone. We found that siRNA dependent elimination of another heterotrimeric G protein G 13 eliminates aldosterone induced elastogenesis. We further demonstrate that aldosterone first engages G 13 and then promotes its transient interaction with c Src which constitutes a prerequisite step for aldosterone dependent activation of the IGF IR and propagation of consecutive downstream elastogenic signaling involving PI3 kinase Akt.

In summary the data we present reveal new details of an MR independent cellular signaling pathway through which aldosterone stimulates elastogenesis in human cardiac fibroblasts.

Aldosterone is a major component of the renin angiotensin aldosterone system which plays an important role in the regulation of electrolyte and fluid balance. The majority of aldosterone induced effects occur after it binds to the intracellular MR. The activated aldosterone MR complex translocates to the nucleus where it modulates the transcription and translation of aldosterone induced proteins involved in blood pressure homeostasis.

Aldosterone has also been implicated in the stimulation of collagen synthesis and myocardial fibrosis through a process that is independent of its effect on blood pressure. Two clinical studies the Randomized Aldactone Evaluation Study RALES and the Eplerenone Post acute Myocardial Infarction Heart failure Efficacy and Survival Study EPHESUS demonstrated that low doses of MR antagonists lead to a dramatic reduction in the mortality rate of patients who suffered acute myocardial infarctions.

Aldosterone can induce numerous effects in a wide range of non epithelial tissues including heart and that acts through membrane receptors other than the traditional MR alternative receptors in epithelial and nonepithelial tissue in a non genomic manner.

Some of the non genomic effects of aldosterone also require the presence of MR or a closely related protein. Non genomic aldosterone effects still occur in cell lines lacking the classical MR and in yeast devoid of MR or in normal cells treated with MR antagonists. Other receptor s distinct from the classic MR interact with aldosterone and trigger the non genomic effects of this hormone. Although full structural characterization of this putative receptor or receptors has not been completed it is understood that some MR independent effects of aldosterone occur after activation of the pertussis toxin sensitive heterotrimeric G proteins.

Results of our previous studies have revealed a novel mechanism in which aldosterone and its antagonists modulate the production of elastin an important ECM component that provides resilience to many tissues including stroma of the heart. We discovered that aldosterone can stimulate elastogenesis in cultures of human cardiac fibroblasts via an MR independent mechanism involving IGF IR activation. We have therefore uncovered another level of complexity in which aldosterone in conjunction with MR antagonists may modulate the remodeling of the injured heart.

In the present study we provide compelling evidence demonstrating that cultured cardiac fibroblasts in which the production of MR has been inhibited by siRNA still exhibit the aldosterone induced increase in elastin production. We also present the first evidence that this MR independent elastogenic effect of aldosterone can be triggered by a signaling pathway that involves initial activation of the heterotrimeric G protein G 13 and consecutive activation of c Src IGF IR and PI3 kinase Akt signaling.

Materials All chemical grade reagents aldosterone proteinase inhibitors agarose linked protein A pertussis toxin recombinant human insulin like growth factor I IGF I PD 98059 PD123319 aluminum chloride AlCl3 and sodium fluoride NaF as well as secondary antibodies fluorescein conjugated goat anti rabbit fluorescein conjugated goat anti mouse and fluorescein conjugated rabbit anti goat were obtained from Sigma St. Louis Mo. . Wortmannin PP2 SP600125 and Y 27632 were purchased from Calbiochem San Diego Calif. . Losartan was purchased from Cayman Chemicals Co. Ann Arbor Mich. . A cell permeable Rho inhibitor exoenzyme C3 transferase CT04 was purchased from Cytoskeleton Inc. Denver Colo. . Iscove s modified Dulbecco s Medium IMDM fetal bovine serum 0.2 trypsine 0.02 EDTA and other cell culture products were acquired from GIBCO Life Technologies Burlington ON . Polyclonal antibody to tropoelastin was purchased from Elastin Products Owensville Mich. . Polyclonal antibody to collagen type I was purchased from Chemicon Temecula Calif. . Polyclonal antibodies against phosphorylated c Src Tyr 416 total c Src phosphorylated Akt Ser437 total Akt and monoclonal antibody against actin and GAPDH were purchased from Cell Signaling Technology Inc. Danvers Mass. . Monoclonal antibody against phosphotyrosine PY99 polyclonal antibody against IGF IR and MR rabbit and goat polyclonal antibodies against G 13 rabbit polyclonal antibody against G 12 normal rabbit or goat agarose conjugated IgGs and rabbit polyclonal antibody and mouse monoclonal antibody against c Src as well as human whole cell lysates were obtained from Santa Cruz Biotechnology Santa Cruz Calif. . Mouse monoclonal antibody against MR was purchased from ABR Affinity BioReagents Golden Colo. . Species and type specific secondary antibodies conjugated to horseradish peroxidase an enhanced chemiluminescence kit and the radiolabeled reagent 3H valine were purchased from Amersham Biosciences Canada Ltd. Oakville ON . Precast 4 12 tris glycine gel was purchased from Invitrogen Canada Inc. Burlington ON . A DNeasy Tissue system for DNA assay RNeasy Mini Kit for isolating total RNA and One Step RT PCR Kit were purchased from Qiagen Mississauga ON . Two different predesigned G 13 siRNA oligonucleotide duplexes were purchased from Ambion Inc. Austin Tex. and a custom designed G 13 siRNA oligonucleotide duplex as well as predesigned ON TARGETplus SMART pool MR siRNA was purchased from Dharmacon Lafayette Colo. . A DeliverX plus siRNA transfection reagent kit including GAPDH specific siRNA and non silencing scrambled siRNA oligonucleotide duplexes was purchased from Panomics Inc. Fremont Calif. . BSA conjugated aldosterone aldo BSA was purchased from Fitzgerald Industries Intl Concord Mass. . As specified by the manufacturer 25 aldosterone molecules are covalently linked to each BSA molecule through a carboxymethyl oxyme residue on the C3 of the hormone forming a stable conjugate.

Cultures of human cardiac fibroblasts We used cardiac fibroblasts isolated from human fetal hearts which are responsible for the production of cardiac ECM to make our studies clinically relevant. Human fetal cardiac fibroblasts of 20 22 weeks gestation a generous gift from Dr. John Coles were prepared in accordance with an institutional review board approved protocol. Confluent cultures were passaged by trypsinization and maintained in IMDM supplemented with 1 antibiotics antimycotics and 10 fetal bovine serum. Passage 1 3 cells were used in all experiments. The purity of these cultures at passage 1 was 95 . Cardiac fibroblasts were determined by positive staining for vimentin and negative for von Willebrand factor and smooth muscle cell actin as previously described.

In experiments aimed at assessing ECM production fibroblasts were initially plated 100 000 cells dish and maintained in a normal medium until confluency the point at which they produce abundant ECM. Confluent cultures were then treated for 72 hours with or without 50 nM of aldosterone.

In separate experiments we tested the influence of an equimolar concentration of aldosterone that was coupled to bovine serum albumin BSA which prevents it from penetrating into the cell interior. The G protein inhibitor pertussis toxin MAPK kinase inhibitor PD98059 c Jun N terminal kinases JNK inhibitor SP600125 PI3 kinase inhibitor wortmannin c Src tyrosine kinase inhibitor PP2 and Rho associated kinase ROCK inhibitor Y 27632 as well as the AT1 receptor antagonist losartan and the AT2 receptor antagonist PD123319 were added 1 hour prior to aldosterone treatment. Cell permeable Rho inhibitor CTO4 was added 2 hours prior to aldosterone treatment as specified by the manufacturer. Cells were also treated for 3 hours with aluminum fluoride solution AlCl3 and NaF prepared immediately before use. All control cell cultures received an equal amount of the solvent vehicle.

Immunostaining At the end of the 72 hour incubation period with the indicated treatment confluent cultures were fixed in cold 100 methanol at 20 C. for elastin and MR staining or in 4 paraformaldehyde at room temperature for collagen staining for 30 minutes and blocked with 1 normal goat serum for 1 hour at room temperature. The cultures were then incubated for 1 hour either with 10 g ml of polyclonal antibody to tropoelastin 10 g ml of monoclonal antibody to MR or with 10 g ml of polyclonal antibody to collagen type I. All cultures were then incubated for an additional hour either with fluorescein conjugated goat anti rabbit fluorescein conjugated goat anti mouse or with fluorescein conjugated rabbit anti goat secondary antibodies to detect elastin MR and collagen type I staining respectively. Nuclei were counterstained with propidium iodide. Secondary antibody alone was used as a control. All of the cultures were then mounted in elvanol and examined with a Nikon Eclipse E1000 microscope attached to a cooled CCD camera Qlmaging Retiga EX and a computer generated video analysis system Image Pro Plus software Media Cybernetics Silver Springs Md. .

Quantitative assay of insoluble elastin Fetal human cardiac fibroblasts were grown to confluency in 35 mm culture dishes 100 000 cells dish in quadruplicate. Then 2 Ci of 3H valine ml of fresh media were added to each dish and treated as specified. Following a 72 hour incubation the cells were extensively washed with PBS and the cells including deposited insoluble ECM were scraped and boiled in 500 l of 0.1 N NaOH for 30 minutes to solubilize all matrix components except elastin. The resulting pellets containing the insoluble elastin were then solubilized by boiling in 200 l of 5.7 N HCl for 1 hour and the aliquots were mixed in scintillation fluid and counted. Aliquots taken from each culture were also used for DNA determination using the DNeasy Tissue System from Qiagen. Final results reflecting the amounts of metabolically labeled insoluble elastin in the individual cultures were normalized according to their DNA content and expressed as CPM 1 g DNA.

One Step RT PCR analysis Confluent fetal human cardiac fibroblast cultures were treated with or without the specified treatment for 24 hours unless otherwise indicated. Total RNA was extracted using the RNeasy Mini Kit according to the manufacturer s instructions 1 g of total RNA was added to each one step RT PCR kit and reactions were set up according to the manufacturer s instructions in a total volume of 25 l. The reverse transcription step was performed for elastin and GAPDH reactions at 50 C. for 30 minutes followed by 15 minutes at 95 C. The elastin PCR reaction sense primer 5 GGTGCGGTGGTTCCTCAGCCTGG 3 antisense primer 5 GGGCCTTGAGATAC CCCAGTG 3 designed to produce a 255 bp product was performed under the following conditions 25 cycles at 94 C. denaturation for 20 seconds 63 C. annealing for 20 seconds 72 C. extension for 1 minute and 1 cycle at 72 C. final extension for 10 minutes. The G 13 PCR reaction sense primer 5 CGTGATCAAAGGTAT GAGGG 3 antisense primer 5 CAGATTCA CCCAGTTGAAATT 3 designed to produce a 249 bp product was performed under the following conditions 25 cycles at 94 C. denaturation for 30 seconds 60 C. annealing for 30 seconds 72 C. extension for 1 minute and 1 cycle at 72 C. final extension for 10 minutes. The collagen type I pro 1 I chain PCR reaction sense primer 5 CCCACCAATCACCTGCGTA CAGA 3 antisense primer 5 TTCTTGGTCGG TGGGTGACTCTGA 3 was performed under the following conditions 20 cycles at 94 C. denaturation for 30 seconds 58 C. annealing for 30 seconds 72 C. extension for 10 minutes and 1 cycle at 72 C. final extension for 10 minutes. The GAPDH PCR reaction sense primer 5 TCCACCACCCTGTTGCTGTAG 3 antisense primer 5 GACCACAGTCCATGC CATC ACT 3 designed to produce a 450 bp product was performed under the following conditions 21 cycles at 94 C. denaturation for 20 seconds 58 C. annealing for 30 seconds 72 C. extension for 1 minute and 1 cycle at 72 C. final extension for 10 minutes. 5 l samples of the elastin G 13 collagen type I and GAPDH PCR products from each reaction were run on a 2 agarose gel and post stained with ethidium bromide. The amount of elastin G 13 and collagen type I mRNA was standardized relative to the amount of GAPDH mRNA.

Western blotting Confluent fetal human cardiac fibroblast cultures were exposed with or without the treatment specified for the indicated time points. At the end of each experiment cells were lysed using an RIPA buffer 50 mM Tris.HCl pH 7.4 150 mM NaCl 1 mM EDTA 10 mM NaF 1 Triton X 100 0.1 SDS 1 Na deoxycholate containing a cocktail of antiproteases 20 g ml leupeptin 10 g ml aprotinin 0.1 mM PMSF 1 mM DTT and antiphosphates 200 M orthovanadate 2 g ml pepstatin . Then 40 60 g of protein extract was resuspended in sample buffer 0.5 M Tris.HCl pH 6.8 10 SDS 10 glycerol 4 2 mercaptoethanol and 0.05 bromophenol blue and the mixture was boiled for 5 minutes. Protein lysates were resolved by precast SDS PAGE gel 4 12 gradient transferred to nitrocellulose membranes blocked for an hour and then immunoblotted with polyclonal anti MR antibody anti phospho c Src Tyr416 antibody anti phospho Akt Ser473 antibody anti G 13 goat antibody anti SCAP2 antibody or with buffer TBS T at 4 C. overnight. All blots were then incubated with the appropriate HRP conjugated secondary antibodies for an hour and examined using the enhanced chemiluminescence detection system. Blots were stripped and reprobed using specified antibodies. For all western blot experiments human whole cell lysates were also electrophoresed and immunoblotted with the mentioned antibodies that served as a positive control and accordingly produced the appropriate molecular weight band. The degree of expression or phosphorylation of immunodetected signaling molecules was measured by densitometry.

Immunoprecipitation To evaluate the level of IGF IR phosphorylation confluent fetal human cardiac fibroblast cultures were incubated for the indicated time in the presence or absence of 50 nM aldosterone or for 10 minutes with 100 ng ml of IGF I. For co immunoprecipitation experiments confluent cultures were incubated with the treatment. At the end of each experiment the cells were lysed as specified above and 300 g of protein extract were then precleared for 1 hour with normal rabbit agarose conjugated IgG at 4 C. and incubated with rabbit polyclonal antibodies against IGF IR c Src or with G 13 for 1 hour at 4 C. followed by the addition of 4 protein A beaded agarose and left overnight. The resulting protein antibody conjugate was centrifuged at 4 C. and washed four times with PBS. The final pellet was resuspended in sample buffer and the proteins were resolved. Following immunoprecipitation of IGF IR the membrane was immunoblotted using monoclonal anti p Tyr antibody stripped and reprobed using anti IGF IR . Following immunoprecipitation of c Src the membranes were immunoblotted using polyclonal goat antibodies against anti G 13 while those immunoprecipitated with anti G 13 were developed with monoclonal anti c Src antibody. Blots were stripped and re probed for equal loading.

For all immunoprecipitation experiments rabbit IgG was also immunoprecipitated and used as a negative control and accordingly did not produce a band. The degree of expression or phosphorylation of immunodetected signaling molecules was measured by densitometry.

Silencing MR and G 13 expression using siRNA specific oligonucleotides MR and G 13 specific siRNA oligonucleotides ON TARGET plus SMART pool MR siRNA gene ID 4306 containing a mixture of 4 SMART selection predesigned siRNAs exclusively targeting MR MR siRNA was purchased from Dharmacon Lafayette Colo. . Two different Silencer predesigned siRNA duplexes against human G 13 standard purity siRNA ID 119735 and 119733 were obtained from Ambion . The custom designed oligonucleotide duplex Dharmacon was synthesized to correspond to target sequences on the full length human G 13 protein. The custom designed oligonucleotide target sequence was as follows 5 GAA GAU CGA CUG ACC CAA UC 3 which was previously shown to completely eliminate G 13 in HeLa cells. A non silencing control and GAPDH siRNA duplex sequences Panomics were used as controls for the transfections.

Transfection of MR and G 13 siRNA oligonucleotides Cardiac fibroblasts were seeded in 6 well plates maintained in IMDM medium supplemented with 10 fetal bovine serum penicillin 100 U ml and streptomycin 100 g ml . 80 90 confluent cardiac fibroblast cultures were washed in PBS and 30 nM of G 13 GAPDH or non silencing siRNA or 90 nM of MR or non silencing siRNA were transfected into cells using DeliverX plus siRNA transfection reagent Panomics according to the manufacturer s instructions. MR production was monitored by Western blotting while G 13 expression was monitored by one step RT PCR and Western blotting post transfection. The G 13 siRNA 1 oligonucleotide Ambion provided the greatest knockdown of G 13 and was used in all siRNA experiments to silence G 13 expression.

Data analysis In all biochemical studies quadruplicate samples in each experimental group were assayed in three separate experiments. Mean and standard deviations SD were calculated for each experimental group and statistical analyses were carried out by ANOVA. A P value of less than 0.05 was considered significant.

Results The absence of MR does not prevent an aldosterone induced increase in IGF IR phosphorylation and subsequent elastin production in cultures of cardiac fibroblasts

Treatment with 1 50 nM of aldosterone increases elastin mRNA levels tropoelastin synthesis and elastic fiber deposition in a dose dependent manner. Strikingly neither spironolactone an MR antagonist nor RU 486 a glucocorticoid receptor antagonist eliminated aldosterone induced increases in elastin production which were induced after aldosterone dependent phosphorylation of IGF IR.

The present study produces a detailed characterization of the signaling pathway through which aldosterone upregulates elastin production. We first used MR specific siRNA oligonucleotides to eliminate the production of MR in cardiac fibroblast cultures in order to exclude the conventional involvement of MR in aldosterone induced elastogenesis. The densitometric evaluation of results obtained from three individual experiments A indicated that levels of immuno detected MR protein decreased to approximately 11 of the scrambled control levels 96 hours after transfection P

The search for the cell membrane component s involved in aldosterone induced elastogenesis. The results described above suggested that MR independent activation of the IGF IR leading to increased elastin production by aldosterone does not require the entry of this hormone into the cell interior. We therefore concluded that such an effect is triggered through the direct interaction of aldosterone with certain cell membrane residing component s .

MR independent effects of aldosterone may be induced through the modulation of angiotensin II dependent signaling therefore we first examined that aldosterone induced elastogenesis might involve the cross activation of angiotensin II receptor s . Our results demonstrated that the addition of angiotensin II type I losartan and angiotensin II type 2 PD 123319 receptor antagonists to cultures of cardiac fibroblasts did not abrogate their elastogenic response to aldosterone. Thus the possibility that angiotensin II receptors were involved was eliminated.

Since other reports also suggested that certain MR independent effects of aldosterone can be mediated by activation of the pertussis toxin sensitive heterotrimeric G protein G i we then tested its potential involvement in aldosterone induced elastogenesis. However the data we obtained demonstrated that pretreatment of cultured cardiac fibroblasts with pertussis toxin does not attenuate the pro elastogenic effect of aldosterone . Thus the putative involvement of G i proteins in this process was also eliminated.

We therefore concentrated our investigation on another member of the G protein family G 13 which mediates non genomic actions of estrogen.

Silencing G 13 in cardiac fibroblast cultures eliminates aldosterone induced elastogenesis. In order to examine whether G 13 would be involved in the initiation of the cellular signaling leading to an aldosterone induced increase in elastin production we specifically silenced G 13 mRNA expression and protein production in cardiac fibroblast cultures without affecting the levels of its related family member G 12 .

Our results indicated that the aldosterone induced increase in elastin mRNA observed in cultures transfected with scrambled siRNA did not occur in cultures in which G 13 expression was effectively silenced A . Consequently cultures of cardiac fibroblasts that were transfected with G 13 siRNA did not demonstrate any increase in elastin deposition in response to aldosterone treatment B and C . Meaningfully parallel cultures transfected either with G 13 specific or with scrambled siRNA demonstrated heightened elastin message levels and increased deposition of mature metabolically labeled and immunodetectable elastin in response to IGF I treatment. Additionally we found that in contrast to cultures transfected with scrambled siRNA which demonstrated a significant increase in IGF IR phosphorylation cultures transfected with G 13 specific siRNA did not demonstrate any upregulation in IGF IR phosphorylation following aldosterone treatment D . We also demonstrated that G 13 is not involved in the collagenogenic effect of aldosterone E and F .

These results clearly demonstrated that G 13 is engaged in the initial stage of the aldosterone induced increase in elastogenesis that occurs prior to IGF IR activation.

Aldosterone also induces a transient interaction between G 13 and c Src that leads to c Src phosphorylation. Results from further experiments suggested that this initial G 13 dependent effect may also involve the activation of cytosolic tyrosine kinase c Src. This conclusion was based on the observation that pharmacological inhibition of c Src with PP2 abolished an increase in elastin mRNA levels and the consequent upregulation in elastic fiber production in aldosterone treated cultures .

Since the most characterized downstream signaling mediated by G 13 involves GTPase Rho we examined a possible involvement of Rho and its downstream effector ROCK in aldosterone dependent elastogenesis. Because pretreatment of cultured cardiac fibroblasts either with a cell membrane permeable Rho inhibitor CT04 or with a specific ROCK inhibitor Y 27632 did not eliminate the aldosterone induced increase in elastin mRNA expression and elastin production in our cardiac fibroblast cultures we concluded that the Rho pathway is not involved in the described elastogenic effect of aldosterone.

Instead we have established that G 13 transiently interacts with c Src proteins following aldosterone treatment. This conclusion was based on results of experiments indicating that G 13 and c Src can be co immunoprecipitated from cellular lysates that were maintained in the presence and absence of aldosterone for 1 5 or 10 minutes. Interaction between these two proteins was most evident after 5 minutes of aldosterone exposure C .

We then investigated whether pharmacological activation of G 13 enforces its transient association with c Src. We found that a nonspecific activator of Ga proteins aluminum fluoride also increased the interaction between c Src and G 13 D left panel . Specifically we found that c Src immunoprecipitated from cellular lysates treated with aluminum fluoride consistently displayed greater interaction with G 13 than untreated controls D right panel .

Since phosphorylation of c Src at tyrosine 416 Tyr416 in the activation loop of the kinase domain upregulates the enzymatic activity of c Src we then examined whether aldosterone treatment would increase c Src phosphorylation at Tyr416. Indeed Western blotting with a specific anti phospho c Src Tyr416 antibody indicated that lysates of cells treated with aldosterone displayed increased phosphorylation of c Src on Tyr416 as compared to the control. We also demonstrated that PP2 pretreatment abolished this effect A . Importantly we also found that the G 13 siRNA transfected cultures did not demonstrate any increase in c Src phosphorylation in response to aldosterone treatment. This was in contrast to scrambled siRNA transfected cultures which demonstrated a significant increase in c Src phosphorylation after treatment with aldosterone B . These results thus further enforced the notion that in cardiac fibroblasts aldosterone engages G 13 signaling that in turn interacts with c Src causing its activation.

The PI3 Kinase Akt signaling pathway propagates the elastogenic signal upon IGF IR activation. Having established that the IGF IR receptor mediates the effect of aldosterone on elastin production we now attempted to determine which downstream IGF IR signaling pathway the PI3 kinase Akt or the mitogen activated protein kinases extracellular signal regulated kinases MAPK ERK pathway propagates the elastogenic signal. Results from metabolic labeling studies and immunofluorescence microscopy demonstrated that blocking the activation of the MAPK pathway by its specific MEK inhibitor PD 98059 did not eliminate the elastogenic effect of aldosterone but instead led to a further increase in the production of elastin A and B . Also treatment with an inhibitor SP600125 that inactivated another MAPK family member JNK did not diminish the elastogenic effect of aldosterone A and B . On the other hand results from one step RT PCR analysis and metabolic labeling studies demonstrated that the addition of the PI3 kinase inhibitor wortmannin to cultures treated with aldosterone or IGF I abolished the elastogenic effects of both stimulators C and D . These results indicate that the IGF IR PI3 kinase pathway propagates the elastogenic signal and that inhibition of the parallel MAPK pathway further enhances the net elastogenic effect.

In order to finally link the early steps of aldosterone induced signaling G 13 dependent c Src activation with the downstream elastogenic pathway PI3 kinase Akt signaling transduced through the IGF IR following its activation we tested whether this IGF IR dependent downstream signaling event would still occur after inhibition of c Src with PP2 and in cultures lacking G 13. Western blot analysis using anti phospho Akt antibody revealed that the aldosterone induced increase in the phosphorylation of Akt is indeed eliminated in cultures treated with the c Src inhibitor PP2 and in cultures transfected with G 13 siRNA E and F . Furthermore we showed that the levels of tropoelastin mRNA begin to significantly increase as early as 1 hour after exposure to aldosterone reach a maximum level between 3 6 hours and remain elevated throughout the course of the experiment G . This endorsed the suggested link between the early aldosterone induced signaling and consequent increase in elastin mRNA steady state levels.

Thus the data presented reveal the details of an elastogenic signaling pathway that is triggered by aldosterone and involves the consecutive activation of G 13 c Src and IGF IR and its downstream PI3 kinase Akt signaling.

Aldosterone stimulates elastogenesis via IGF IR signaling in both fetal and adult and cultures of human cardiac fibroblasts even in the presence of the MR antagonist spironolactone. Results of the experiments presented in this report additionally demonstrate that aldosterone still induces elastogenesis in cardiac fibroblast cultures in which the synthesis of MR protein is inhibited by the use of MR specific siRNA oligonucleotides. Thus these data further confirm that the elastogenic effect of aldosterone is executed via an MR independent mechanism. Moreover we have established that membrane impermeable BSA conjugated aldosterone produces the same magnitude of IGF IR phosphorylation as equimolar concentrations of free aldosterone . This suggests that the signaling pathway leading to the MR independent elastogenic effect of aldosterone may be initiated after the interaction of this steroid hormone with a certain moiety residing on the cell surface of cardiac fibroblasts. This assumption is further supported by other studies that have demonstrated the existence of high affinity membrane binding sites for aldosterone in human vascular endothelium human mononuclear leukocytes and in pig kidneys and livers. It has also been suggested that a 50 kDa protein may meet the criteria for the alternative cell surface receptor for aldosterone.

G protein coupled receptors GPCRs are involved in the propagation of certain steroid receptor independent effects of other steroid hormones in animals and humans and that some MR independent effects of aldosterone can also be mediated through pertussis toxin sensitive G i proteins therefore we first investigated whether G i would propagate the elastogenic effect of aldosterone. However the results of our experiments as depicted in excluded the possibility that activation of G i may be involved in aldosterone induced elastogenesis. Instead we demonstrated for the first time that another heterotrimeric G protein a member of the G12 subfamily G 13 participates in a cellular response to aldosterone that involves IGF IR activation and a consequent enhancement of elastogenesis. This conclusion was based on data indicating that the elimination of G 13 in cultured cardiac fibroblasts by MR specific siRNA oligonucleotides completely attenuated the aldosterone induced increase in IGF IR phosphorylation and subsequent elastin production . At the same time we also demonstrated that the absence of the G 13 protein did not eliminate the elastogenic response of IGF I . This also reinforced our belief that G 13 is located upstream of the IGF IR in the elastogenic signaling pathway triggered by aldosterone.

G 13 also stimulates the activation of the cytosolic tyrosine kinase c Src in various cell types including cardiac fibroblast cultures. The results of our co immunoprecipitation experiments demonstrated that treatment with aldosterone enhances the transient interaction between G 13 and c Src . Since the inactivation of c Src by its specific PP2 inhibitor eliminated the elastogenic effect of aldosterone we concluded that the action of this kinase constitutes a prerequisite for the propagation of the aldosterone dependent elastogenic signal .

G 13 can directly bind and activate various proteins including cytosolic tyrosine kinases such as Pyk2. The aldosterone triggered interaction between G 13 and c Src is either direct or it requires other proteins such as Pyk2 that might bind and facilitate phosphorylation of c Src. We have established that in aldosterone treated cardiac fibroblasts G 13 stimulates phosphorylation of c Src via the Rho independent pathway and that the consecutive steps of elastogenic signaling involve increased phosphorylation of the IGF IR and its downstream PI3 kinase Akt signaling pathway .

c Src may not only phosphorylate the IGF IR on ligand induced auto phosphorylation sites but also significantly increase the phosphorylation of this receptor on Tyr 1316 which has been implicated as a potential PI3 kinase binding site. Therefore aldosterone induced G 13 c Src activation facilitates IGF IR signaling by enhancing its Tyr 1316 phosphorylation. This in turn selectively promotes the downstream PI3 kinase Akt pathway needed for elastogenesis but not the alternative IGF IR propagated mitogenic MAPK ERK signaling pathway. Our data indicate that the aldosterone induced elastogenic effect was enhanced in the presence of the MEK inhibitor PD 98059. Also treatment with an inhibitor SP600125 inactivating JNK another MAPK family member did not diminish the elastogenic effect of aldosterone A and B .

Since phosphorylation on Tyr 1316 of the insulin receptor which is closely related to the IGF IR has been shown to play an inhibitory role in mitogenic signaling aldosterone induced signaling enhancing phosphorylation of Tyr 1316 on the IGF IR contribute to the mechanism maintaining the balance between signals stimulating differentiation and mitogenesis.

In aortic smooth muscle cells IGF I induces an increase in elastin gene expression via a derepressive mechanism involving the abrogation of Sp3 a retinoblastoma protein Rb associated element that allows for activation of the elastin promoter by Rb on its retinoblastoma control element. Since Rb lies downstream of the PI3 kinase Akt mammalian target of rapamycin mTOR signaling pathway aldosterone dependent activation of this signaling pathway also modulates the interaction between Rb and pro elastogenic transcription factors leading to an increase in elastin gene expression in cardiac fibroblasts. Since we found that inhibition of the promitogenic MAPK ERK signaling pathway further enhanced the effect of aldosterone on elastin production A and B we also suggest that the PI3 kinase Akt signaling pathway induces elastogenesis by altering the phosphorylation state of Rb while the mitogenic MAPK ERK pathway antagonizes this effect. Interestingly a similar pro elastogenic effect involving the PI3 kinase Akt signaling pathway exsits in lung fibroblasts after exposure to TGF .

In summary data presented in this study suggest that the elastogenic effect of aldosterone in cardiac fibroblasts is propagated through the MR independent action of this hormone. This novel mechanism likely involves a GPCR or GPCRs that couples to G 13 to stimulate c Src which in turn facilitates the activation of tyrosine kinase dependent phosphorylation of the IGF IR and its downstream PI3 kinase signaling pathway . This signaling pathway ultimately leads to the upregulation of the elastin gene and the efficient production of elastic fibers by cardiac fibroblasts. The heightened production of elastic fibers that results from the MR independent action of aldosterone counterbalances MR mediated maladaptive fibrosis in the post infarct heart in patients using MR antagonists thus providing resilience to the cardiac stroma and facilitating normal ventricular function.

Although the present invention has been described in considerable detail with reference to certain preferred embodiments thereof other versions are possible. Therefore the spirit and scope of the appended claims should not be limited to the description and the preferred embodiments disclosed herein.

