---

title: Soft body armor durability tester
abstract: An assembly for testing a durability of a soft body armor system includes a top mounting assembly, a bottom mounting assembly, the soft body armor system being fixedly disposed between the top mounting assembly and the bottom mounting assembly, a rotary actuator coupled to the top mounting assembly, the rotary actuator configured to rotate the top mounting assembly in a range of approximately +90 degrees to and including −90 degrees, a linear bearing on each end of the bottom mounting assembly, and a bearing rod on which each linear bearing is configured to ride. A rotation of the top mounting assembly induces torsional, axial and bending forces substantially simultaneously on the soft body armor system.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09063039&OS=09063039&RS=09063039
owner: The United States of America as by the Secretary of the Army
number: 09063039
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130918
---
This application claims benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 702 766 filed Sep. 19 2012 entitled Soft Body Armor Durability Tester .

The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the U.S. Government for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

The aspects of the present disclosure relate generally to the field of body armor and in particular to durability testing of soft body armor.

Soft body armor durability entails many parameters and can be broadly described as the armor system s ability to withstand or resist wear from axial torsional and bending motions as well laundering temperature and humidity exposure POL and salt water exposure and non penetrating blunt impact resistance.

The question of how long soft body armor will last is a frequent question of Army logisticians and law enforcement officials. Unfortunately no definitive answer can be given to this question regarding service life which encompasses many variables such as wear including bending twisting and folding care including launderability handling and storage and temperature humidity exposure etc. Every piece of body armor has a service life and will eventually have to be replaced.

Currently the only method to quantitatively evaluate body armor performance is destructive ballistic testing. Age alone does not cause the body armor s ballistic resistance to deteriorate shelf life . The care and maintenance of a garment or the lack thereof have been shown to have a greater impact to service life of body armor than shelf life. As of today there is no way to determine the service life of soft body armor. Having the ability to do so could reduce life cycle costs associated with sustainment and re issuance. More importantly it could be used to determine if a soft body armor design can maintain its ballistic integrity for some expected level of use time. Therefore the need exists to identify relevant variables and meaningful methods of measuring the approximate service life of body armor systems based on actual wear and care not just on shelf life alone .

Current test methods for abrasion resistance and durability of textile based and film systems include ASTM American Society for Testing and Materials test methods. These methods typically involve mechanical oscillations to cause abrasion damage to a fabric sample. Generally the approaches use a series of rollers and bars to apply stresses onto the test material. However even methods that provide more complex motion mainly focus on testing one layer of fabric at a time and not a system level test of a full body armor system. Additionally these types of testing systems only impart abrasion on the test material and do not focus on durability of the test material in an end user situation. It would be advantageous to accommodate a full body armor system in a durability test.

U.S. Pat. No. 8 225 638 Honeywell describes a system for testing the durability and wear resistance of soft armor. Honeywell relies on a reciprocating drive that forces the textile system back and forth along its length. The flexible fabrics are turned as it passes through the rollers. However the use of rollers may not approximate the forces and stresses experienced in the use of ballistic resistant fabric and composite articles. These can include forces and stresses resulting from actions such as squatting compression bending flexion extension and twisting torsion . It would be advantageous to have a test apparatus capable of subjecting a multi layered soft armor system to each of the forces and stresses that are typically experienced as a result of basic human motion that would be experienced during end item use.

Accordingly it would be desirable to provide a soft body armor durability test system and method that addresses at least some of the problems identified above.

As described herein the exemplary embodiments overcome one or more of the above or other disadvantages known in the art.

One aspect of the exemplary embodiments relates to an assembly for testing the durability of a soft body armor system. In one embodiment the system includes a top mounting assembly a bottom mounting assembly the soft body armor system being fixedly disposed between the top mounting assembly and the bottom mounting assembly a rotary actuator coupled to the top mounting assembly the rotary actuator configured to rotate the top mounting assembly in a range of approximately 90 degrees to and including 90 degrees a linear bearing on each end of the bottom mounting assembly and a bearing rod on which each linear bearing is configured to ride. A rotation of the top mounting assembly induces torsional axial and bending forces substantially simultaneously on the soft body armor system.

Another aspect of the disclosed embodiments is directed to a method for durability testing of a soft body armor system. In one embodiment the method includes positioning a ballistic shoot pack between a top mount assembly and a bottom mount assembly the top mount assembly being configured to rotate about a vertical axis rotating the top mount assembly to apply a torsional force to the ballistic shoot pack the bottom mount assembly remaining stationary about the vertical axis.

Another aspect of the exemplary embodiments relates to a shoot pack durability test assembly. In one embodiment the shoot pack test assembly includes a chassis a set of bearing rods fixedly attached to the chassis a bottom mount assembly having a first end and a second end a linear bearing coupled to the first end and the second end of the bottom mount assembly and configured to ride on a respective bearing rod a rotatory actuator coupled to the chassis a top mount assembly coupled to the rotary actuator the rotary actuator configured to rotate the top mount assembly in a range of between approximately 90 degrees to and including 90 degrees about a vertical axis between the bottom mount assembly and the top mount assembly and a shoot pack disposed between the bottom mount assembly and the top mount assembly.

These and other aspects and advantages of the exemplary embodiments will become apparent from the following detailed description considered in conjunction with the accompanying drawings. It is to be understood however that the drawings are designed solely for purposes of illustration and not as a definition of the limits of the invention for which reference should be made to the appended claims. Additional aspects and advantages of the invention will be set forth in the description that follows and in part will be obvious from the description or may be learned by practice of the invention. Moreover the aspects and advantages of the invention may be realized and obtained by means of the instrumentalities and combinations particularly pointed out in the appended claims.

Referring to one embodiment of a soft body armor durability testing system incorporating aspects of the present disclosure is generally designated by reference numeral . The aspects of the disclosed embodiments are directed to a soft body armor durability testing system that is configured to apply a combination of axial torsional and flexsion extension forces to a ballistic shoot pack. A ballistic shoot pack or shoot pack as the term is used herein will generally be understood to apply to an approximately 15 inch by 15 inch representation of a soft body armor component that includes ballistic filler s carrier fabric s and stitching to combine the two where the mass per unit area areal density of the shoot pack is equal to its end item counterpart. The shoot pack can be constructed of fabric based or composite based body armor systems. The application of three forces in some cases in a substantially simultaneous fashion generally simulates human motion to condition body armor via a simulated use condition. The body armor configuration which will be commonly tested with the system is the soft body armor shoot pack although in alternate embodiments any suitable test object can be utilized.

As shown in the soft body armor test system generally includes a chassis a top mounting assembly and a bottom mounting assembly . A ballistic shoot pack is movably and removably retained between the top mounting assembly and the bottom mounting assembly as will be further described herein. The bottom mounting assembly floats or moves in a vertical fashion on linear bearings coupled or mounted to bearing rods . The top mounting assembly is coupled to an actuator . In one embodiment the actuator is a rotary actuator. The top mounting assembly is configured to rotate approximately 180 degrees relative to a vertical axis.

Referring to which illustrates a top view of the system in one embodiment the system can include one or more manifolds with attached solenoid valve s that can be used to control the flow of air to the actuator . In the embodiment shown in there are two single position solenoid valves ON or OFF . In alternate embodiments any suitable solenoid position valve can be used. A regulator air dryer can be used to process the air flowing to the solenoid valves . In this embodiment the actuator is a pneumatic actuator. In alternate embodiments the actuator can comprise any suitable actuator other than including a pneumatic actuator. For example the actuator can comprise an electrically operated actuator. In this example the actuator is coupled to the shaft coupler which is in turn coupled to the top mounting assembly .

In one embodiment the shoot pack is preloaded in tension by the weight of the bottom mounting assembly which may also be referred to as a clamping assembly. When the rotary actuator is energized the rotary actuator imposes an immediate torsional force on the shoot pack . This torsional force causes a reduction in height of the shoot pack . Since the top section of the shoot pack is fixed at the actuator generally by the top mounting assembly or clamping assembly this causes the bottom section of the shoot pack to rise along the bearing rods generally indicated by the arrow M1 in . This rise induces compressive stresses on the shoot pack and causes it to undergo bending as the bottom portion of the shoot pack rises.

In one embodiment the actuator is configured to cycle between approximately 90 degrees and 90 degrees. This cycling is configured to impose cyclical rotational motion of approximately 180 degrees in both clockwise and counter clockwise directions on the shoot pack .

In the embodiment of the top mounting assembly comprises an angle iron assembly . The top portion of the shoot pack is clamped in between the angle iron assembly . In one embodiment C style clamps toggle clamps or nuts and bolts can be used to hold the shoot pack in place in between the angle iron assembly . In alternate embodiments any suitable mechanism can be used to secure the top portion of the shoot pack to the angle iron assembly . In the example of a top clamp assembly is used to couple the angle iron assembly together thereby securing the top portion of the shoot pack in between the angle iron assembly . In alternate embodiments any suitable device can be used to couple the angle iron assembly together such as for example toggle clamps.

In one embodiment a bolt is coupled to an approximate center top portion of the angle iron assembly as is shown in by rigidly affixing it to the top clamp assembly . In the embodiment shown in the bolt is welded to the clamp . The clamp is then fastened to the angle iron assembly . In alternate embodiments the bolt can be fixedly coupled to the angle iron assembly in any suitable manner. A torque applied to the top mounting assembly can be measured at the bolt as the shoot pack rotates about its vertical axis. For example a torque wrench can be used to measure the torque at the bolt as the shoot pack rotates. In alternate embodiments any suitable torque measurement device can be used to measure the torque as the shoot pack rotates. For example in one embodiment the torque measurement device can be embodied in or suitably coupled to the controller shown in . In one embodiment the test system is configured to rotate the shoot pack approximately 180 degrees from about 90 degrees to about 90 degrees. This rotation is generally configured to mimic human torso loading and quantify the static torque required to rotate the shoot pack to an extent of nearly 90 degrees.

In the example of the test system was configured to maintain an approximately 10 lb f preload on the shoot pack . This allows the test system to move the shoot pack by rotating the shoot pack at increasing angles. The combination of axial and torsional motion applied by the top mounting assembly as the shoot pack is rotated forces the shoot pack to undergo bending in flexion and extension. In one embodiment allowing one end of the system either the top mounting assembly or the bottom mounting assembly to float at a preloaded value of tension such as shown in the embodiment of enables the generally simultaneous application of all three forces axial torsional and flexion extension to the shoot pack by the test system .

In one embodiment chassis or frame of the test system illustrated in is formed from a lightweight and strong extrusion material such as aluminum. An extrusion such as aluminum can be easily assembled into unique modular designs. In alternate embodiment any suitable material can be used that provides the strength and resistance to bending as the test device applies the axial torsional and flexion extension forces to the shoot pack .

Referring to one embodiment of a chassis similar to the chassis of is illustrated. In this example the chassis is a simple cube of aluminum extrusion. The extrusion members generally illustrated as vertical members and horizontal members are joined together by joining plates shown in . In this example the joining plates are approximately inch thick joining plates although in alternate embodiments any suitable sized joining plates can be used other than including inch thick. Joining members such as for example 5 16 inch number screws can be used to couple the joining members to the extrusion members . Alternatively any suitable joining members can be used. In one embodiment as is shown in the corners are reinforced with gussets for added stiffness.

The soft body armor durability test system of the disclosed embodiments such as the test system shown in is configured to impose cyclical work on the shoot pack by driving the shoot pack in a clockwise direction approximately 90 degrees and a counter clockwise direction approximately 90 degrees resulting in approximately 180 degrees of motion. A minimum static torque requirement of approximately 68 N m 50 ft lbs was used to approach the 90 degree rotation. The requirements for the rotary actuator shown in to achieve these requirements are illustrated in Table 1. It will be understood that the specifications or requirements illustrated below are merely exemplary and in alternate embodiments the specifications of the rotary actuator can be such as to impart the desired rotational forces on the shoot pack in the test system .

In one embodiment the rotary actuator comprises a single shaft 100 millimeter rotary bore actuator with cushions and built in magnets for switching capabilities. One example of such an actuator is the SMC CDRA 1BS100 180C actuator manufactured by SMC PNEUMATICS Tokyo Japan. This particular type of actuator allows for 180 degrees of rotational motion.

In one embodiment the solenoid valves illustrated in can comprise SMC VFS3000 series solenoid valves coupled to a NVFS3000 series manifold block manufactured by SMC PNEUMATICS Tokyo Japan. The minimum and maximum operating pressures were 22 psi and 150 psi respectively. The power consumption of the exemplary solenoid noted above is approximately 1.8 watts at 12 volts DC. In alternate embodiments any suitable solenoid manifold can be used other than the example above.

To control the position of the shoot pack during actuator motion as described above two linear pillow block bearings were used one at each end of the bottom mounting assembly as is shown in . The pillow block bearings are attached to the bottom mounting assembly and control the vertical motion of the shoot pack along the bearing rods . One example of a pillow block bearing is a Thomson SPB 16 bearing manufactured by THOMSON Radford Va.

In one embodiment a control system or controller can be coupled to the solenoid valves and actuator to control the soft body armor test system as is generally described herein. The controller shown in can be any suitable device that is configured to operate the soft body armor durability test device as is generally described herein. For example in one embodiment the controller comprises one or more of processors and microprocessors that are configured to execute computer readable instructions in order to carry out the test processes described herein. For example the controller can comprise a computing device with a memory for storing data computer readable program code and instructions such as software as is generally understood. The controller can interfaced with and coupled to the soft armor test system in any suitable manner including wired and wireless connections.

Referring to for example in one embodiment the controller includes or is coupled to an interface to connect the system to a computer such as a laptop computer for example as is generally illustrated in . Although the controller and interface are shown as separate components in alternate embodiments the controller and the interface can be integrated in either of the controller or computer depending upon the application. In one embodiment the controller could be part of or comprise the computer .

In one embodiment the interface comprises an RS232 relay or relay board coupled to the computer via a serial to USB cable as is shown in . In alternate embodiments the interface can comprise any suitable communication or control interface to coupled the computer to the system . For this example terminals on the RS232 relay are electrically coupled to the solenoid s to power them ON OFF based on input from the computer . The relay board receives signals from the computer to actuate the solenoid valves that supply air to the actuator . In this example the relay control board is powered by a 12 volt DC power supply and the relays themselves are capable of power consumption up to 10 amps at 24 volts DC. In one embodiment the interface can be embodied in computer readable instructions stored in the memory of the computer .

One example of an exemplary graphical user interface for the soft armor test system of the disclosed embodiments is shown in . In one embodiment options for manual firing of the solenoids include buttons . The cyclical firing of the solenoids can also be based on a timer object. Status lights can indicate the position of each solenoid . For example a green light can indicate an open solenoid while a red light can indicate a closed solenoid. In alternate embodiments any suitable indicators can be used to indicate the open and closed positions of the solenoids . The number of test cycles can be set in an option box or control . The number of completed test cycles can be indicated in an indicator box . It will be understood that the graphical user interface shown in is merely exemplary and can be embodied in many different forms and options the scope of which is contemplated by the disclosure contained herein.

In one embodiment the shoot pack also referred to as a test sample is conditioned at 68 10 degree Fahrenheit for at least 24 hours prior to testing. The testing is performed in a standard atmosphere of 68 10 degree Fahrenheit and 50 20 relatively humidity. Temperature and humidity measurements can be recorded before the beginning of each test. The following is the procedure for conditioning a shoot pack using this durability apparatus 

Make sure air supply is off communications between laptop and device are disabled and actuator moves freely.

Tighten clamping assemblies sufficiently such that the shoot pack will not pull out during cycling with a torque up to approximately 50 ft lbs .

The shoot pack should generally be disposed parallel to the clamping assemblies that hold the shoot pack in the device .

Turn on air supply at regulator regulate to approximately 90 psig depending on desired torque value .

Once the desired number of cycles are complete remove the shoot pack rotate the shoot pack 90 degrees and reinstall the shoot pack between the top and bottom mounting assemblies .

Re tighten the top and bottom mounting assemblies to fixedly couple the shoot pack and complete 408 the rest of the test cycles.

In one embodiment the method described herein includes conditioning the shoot pack in the test device as is generally described herein. The conditioned shoot pack is then ballistically tested in a manner as is generally understood.

The aspects of the disclosed embodiments provide a soft body armor testing system and device that is capable of mechanically inducing a flexible armor sample at a system level to a combination of axial torsional and bending flexion extension forces substantially simultaneously. The soft body armor testing system of the disclosed embodiments induces these forces in a single loading condition and substantially replicates actual body armor displacements when worn and the human ability to impart stress on the armor system.

Thus while there have been shown described and pointed out fundamental novel features of the invention as applied to the exemplary embodiments thereof it will be understood that various omissions and substitutions and changes in the form and details of devices and methods illustrated and in their operation may be made by those skilled in the art without departing from the spirit of the invention. Moreover it is expressly intended that all combinations of those elements and or method steps which perform substantially the same function in substantially the same way to achieve the same results are within the scope of the invention. Moreover it should be recognized that structures and or elements and or method steps shown and or described in connection with any disclosed form or embodiment of the invention may be incorporated in any other disclosed or described or suggested form or embodiment as a general matter of design choice. It is the intention therefore to be limited only as indicated by the scope of the claims appended hereto.

