---

title: Interstitial audio control
abstract: A method executed on a processor for controls audio during playing of a video segment. The method includes receiving a request to play one or more main videos; noting a request for audio matching among the main videos and one or more interstitial videos; determining requested audio parameters for the audio matching; identifying a first interstitial in the main videos in which the interstitial videos may be served, the first interstitial in proximity to a first main video; locating one or more candidate interstitial videos to serve in the first interstitial by matching audio parameters of each of the candidate videos and audio parameters of at least the first main video; and selecting to serve in the first interstitial, one or more interstitial videos having a closest audio match to the first main video.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08813120&OS=08813120&RS=08813120
owner: Google Inc.
number: 08813120
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130315
---
Media devices may provide viewers with media content interspersed with promotionals. Some media content includes audio content the interspersed promotionals likewise may include audio content. However when media content and interspersed promotionals are presented in serial fashion the audio volume levels of the media content and the interspersed promotionals as provided on the media devices may be sufficiently different as to make the viewer s experience less than satisfactory or even uncomfortable. In the context of videos one reason for this situation is that a video program producer may set the base audio level of a video at one level and the producer of a promotional may set the base audio level of the promotional at a higher level. Thus a viewer may be watching and listening to a video with the audio volume set at a comfortable level but when an interspersed promotional plays the volume level is higher. In this situation the viewer may manually adjust down or mute the media device volume while the promotional plays and then manually adjust up or unmute the media device volume when the video plays. Besides being annoying to the viewer such volume adjustments may lessen the effectiveness of the promotional.

A system and method implemented by the system allows a viewer to receive media content and interspersed promotionals without the need to manually adjust the volume of the viewer s media device when the media device switches from playing the media content to playing the promotionals and vice versa.

A method includes determining a base audio level of a media content determining interstitials in the media content during which promotionals may be played and providing promotionals to play in the interstitials such that a base audio level of a promotional matches the base audio level of the media content.

A method executed on a processor for controls audio during playing of a video segment. The method includes receiving a request to play one or more main videos noting a request for audio matching among the main videos and one or more interstitial videos determining requested audio parameters for the audio matching identifying a first interstitial in the main videos in which the interstitial videos may be served the first interstitial in proximity to a first main video locating one or more candidate interstitial videos to serve in the first interstitial by matching audio parameters of each of the candidate videos and audio parameters of at least the first main video and selecting to serve in the first interstitial one or more interstitial videos having a closest audio match to the first main video.

The above disclosure generally refers to media as video. However the systems and methods may apply to any type of media including radio. In generally the disclosure relates to an audio matching system and a corresponding audio matching method for controlling interstitial media in any media type. The method includes sending by a processor a request to an external server to deliver a plurality of main media segments to the media device receiving at the media device a first main media segment playing at the media device the received first main media segment determining by the processor audio parameters of the first main media segment determining by the processor audio parameters of a first interstitial media segment to be served in proximity to the first main media segment determining by the processor when the audio parameters of the first interstitial media segment require adjustment to match those of the first main media segment when audio parameter adjustment is required adjusting by the processor the audio parameters of the first interstitial media segment and playing the first main video followed by the first interstitial video.

Media devices may provide viewers the ability to view a succession of media content segments for example a succession of videos. The videos may be interspersed with sponsored content segments for example advertisements. In one situation one or more video advertisements may be interspersed between the videos. Some or all of the videos may include audio content likewise the interspersed advertisements may include audio content. However when videos and interspersed advertisements are presented in this serial fashion the audio volume levels of the videos and the interspersed advertisements as presented on the media devices may be sufficiently different as to make the viewers experience less than satisfactory or even uncomfortable. One reason for this situation is that a video producer may set the base audio level of a video at one level and the producer of an advertisement may set the base audio level of the advertisement at a much higher level. Thus a viewer may be watching and listening to a video with the audio volume set at a comfortable level but when an interspersed advertisement plays the volume level jumps to a higher level. Large jumps in audio levels between and among different content segments may be disconcerting to the viewer. With current media delivery systems the viewer s only options may be to put up with the volume changes or to manually adjust down or mute the media device volume while the advertisement plays and then manually adjust up or unmute the media device volume when the video plays. Besides being annoying to the viewer such volume adjustments may lessen the effectiveness of the promotional.

In one aspect the herein disclosed systems and methods address the problem of having large jumps in audio levels between videos and video advertisements or between a main piece of video or audio only content referred to here as main video s and an interstitial piece of content referred to here as an interstitial video . The systems and methods may use one or more of at least are two different approaches. A first approach involves scaling the audio within an interstitial video to reflect the audio in a main video for example this approach scales the audio of a video advertisement to reflect the audio of the auditory bookends of the main video or the moments in audio immediately before and after the video advertisement. This first approach thus scales all audio within the overall viewing and listening experience i.e. the main video and the interstitial video to be within a selected or designated range. In this first approach each time an interstitial video e.g. a video advertisement is set to play its maximum and minimum audio levels and or its base audio level may be scaled to reflect the maximum and minimum ranges and or base audio level of video clips on either side the bookends of the interstitial video. In this first approach the video clips may be portions of a single main video or may be separate and distinct main videos or portions of separate and distinct main videos. For example a video advertisement may be set to play between two music videos for example between music videos in a music video playlist . The audio of the video advertisement may be scaled to reflect the audio of the preceding and following music videos or to reflect an ending portion of the preceding music video and the beginning of the following music video. This means that for example that the loudest sound within the interstitial video is scaled to be no louder than the loudest sound in the main video s .

In this first approach there are at least two options for achieving the audio scaling or audio control or audio matching . In a first option where main and interstitial videos are streamed to a viewer s media device as the media content begins to stream from a remote media server the media content passes through a filter that adjusts the audio level of the streamed media content. Thus in this first option the audio spectrum of the interstitial is modified as or before the interstitial video leaves the remote media server.

In a second option audio matching code running in a media player for example a media player within the browser runs when an interstitial video begins to play. At that time the audio matching code scales the audio volume being sent to the media device s speakers to reflect that of the preceding and perhaps following main video. In this second option the audio spectrum of the interstitial video is sent to the media device but the media player within the media device modifies the audio spectrum with this scaling operation.

A second approach involves selecting interstitial videos i.e. video advertisements to serve with the main video where the audio spectrums of the interstitial videos reflect that of the main video. That is video advertisements are chosen at least partly based on how closely their audio spectrum compares to that of the main video. One aspect of this second approach is to weight video advertisements more heavily the closer those video advertisements are to reflecting the audio spectrum of the main video. Another aspect of this second approach is to consider for selection only those video advertisements whose audio spectrum is within a certain range of the audio spectrum of the main video. Yet another aspect is to apply both the weighting feature of the former aspect and the threshold feature of the later aspect. Thus the video advertisement that is served with a main video may closely compare in terms of audio parameters toe the audio parameters of the main video. This second approach may work well when the inventory of available advertisers and video advertisements is large enough that applying one or both of the audio weighting and threshold features or some other audio based selection criteria still allows a meaningful video advertisement to be served that is the served video advertisement is relevant to the viewer s likes interests and or demographics for example. This second approach has the added advantage of not adjusting the audio spectrum of the video advertisement which may be important to or a requirement of some advertisers. This second approach has the further advantage of not requiring specific audio adjusting code in the media player or browser of the viewer s media device or at the remote media server. Finally this second approach has the advantage that all viewers who experience the interstitial video advertisement have exactly the same viewing and listening experience which may be what the advertiser desires.

Thus the herein disclosed systems and methods overcome limitations inherent in current media content delivery systems. More specifically the systems and methods may scale control or match audio levels of different content segments that are played in proximity to each other. For example the systems and methods match the audio volume of sponsored content segments that are to be played in proximity to the media content segments. In an embodiment advertisements and more particularly video advertisements or advertisements that incorporate audio features which are selected to play in proximity to a main video or several main videos may be chosen so that the base audio levels of the video advertisements approximate or equal the base audio level of the main video s . In another embodiment the base audio level of an advertisement is adjusted to more closely compare to the base audio level of the main video s . In yet another embodiment the audio spectrum of the advertisement is adjusted to compare closely or exactly to the audio spectrum of the main video s . In still another embodiment portions of the audio spectrum of the advertisements are adjusted to approximate the audio spectrum of the main video s . In the above embodiments this matching of the video advertisements to the main video s may be made on the basis of the audio levels of the preceding main video or the following main video or both main videos. In the embodiments in which base audio levels or audio spectrums are adjusted such adjustments may be made at a remote server or at the media device.

Thus matching as used herein includes selection of video advertisements which have audio parameters that correspond to those of nearby videos. However as used herein matching also includes adjusting usually but not always down one or more audio parameters of the video advertisements.

While the disclosure will primarily describe audio matching in the context to video advertisements in proximity to a video the systems and methods are not limited to this illustrative scenario and other scenarios may take advantage of the audio matching. For example the herein disclosed systems and methods may be used to match audio between or among videos in a playlist audio levels in radio broadcasts and audio levels of songs selected from a media device s internal storage or from a cloud storage.

In environment includes viewing location at which viewer operates one or more media devices media delivery system and sponsor . The media devices at the viewing location media delivery system and sponsor communicate over network .

The viewing location includes first media device A and second media device B through which the viewer is exposed to media from media delivery system and sponsor . The viewing location may be a residence of the viewer who operates media devices A and B to access through router resources such as Web sites and to receive television programs radio programs and other media from the media delivery system . The media devices A and B may be fixed or mobile. For example media device A may be an Internet connected smart television ITV a basic or smart television connected to a set top box STB or other Internet enabled device a Blu ray player a game box and a radio for example. Media device B may be a tablet a smart phone a laptop computer or a desk top computer for example. The media devices A and B may include browsers A and B respectively. The browsers may be software applications for retrieving presenting and traversing resources such as at Internet Web sites. The browsers may record certain data related to Web site visits. The media devices A and B also may include applications. The viewer may cause the media devices A or B to execute applications A and B respectively such as a mobile banking application to access online banking services. The application may involve use of a browser or other means including cellular means to connect to the online banking services. Other aspects and features of the media devices A and B are illustrated and described with respect to .

When visiting a Web site the viewer may register with and log on to the Web site by providing a visitor created identification hereafter a user ID and a password and or pass code for example. Alternately the viewer may access the Web site without registering and without logging on. Whether or not logged on the viewer may take actions that may be recorded as visitor actions at the Web site such as clicking on a link filling a shopping cart downloading content uploading content purchasing a product or service or filling out a form for example.

When using an application the viewer may make various selections that also may be recorded and analyzed. For example the viewer may select a pop up or overlay advertisement presented during execution of the application.

The browsers A and B may include computer code to store files A and B respectively and record viewer actions. The browsers may store information related to Web site visits including a url of the Web site date and time of visit length of visit or start and stop time of visit and actions taken by the viewer during the visit. The browsers may store information that unambiguously identifies the viewer . However the browsers may do so without storing any personally identifiable information regarding the viewer . Similarly the applications may store visitor identification information Internet address information and other data and information related to use of the applications.

In situations in which the systems disclosed herein may collect personal information about viewers or may make use of personal information the viewers may be provided with an opportunity to control whether programs or features collect viewer information e.g. information about a viewer s social network social actions or activities profession a viewer s preferences or a viewer s current location or to control whether and or how to receive advertisements from an ad server that may be more relevant or of interest to the viewer. In addition certain data may be treated in one or more ways before it is stored or used so that personally identifiable information is removed. For example a viewer s identity may be treated so that no personally identifiable information can be determined for the viewer or a viewer s geographic location may be generalized where location information is obtained such as to a city ZIP code or state level so that a particular location of a viewer cannot be determined. Thus the viewer may have control over how information is collected about the viewer and used by a server.

The media delivery system provides media content to the viewing location via the network . The example media delivery system may provide any combination of video audio text images or any other type of media content. Thus for example the media delivery system may provide television programming movies radio Internet content and or any other type of media content. In an embodiment the media delivery system provides media content segments for display on the media devices A and B. In this embodiment the media delivery system may be an Internet based system and may include Web server that operates to provide Web sites . The Web sites may include an Internet search Web site a social network Web site a commercial Web site selling products and services and providing information about the products and services an online service such as an online banking service or an online dating service and a Web site operated by a government agency. Each Web site may have a number of Web pages .

In an embodiment the media content segments are video programs or simply videos. The videos may be created by a separate entity not shown and may then be provided to the media delivery system . For example the videos may be created by a movie producer a television program producer or an individual such as the viewer . The videos may be stored on the server . Alternately only a link or reference to the videos is stored on the server and the videos are retrieved from a separate database or file not shown and provided to the media devices A and B based on the link or reference. In an example the link or reference is a url. In a further example one or more of the Web pages may include a link or reference to a Web site external to the media delivery system at which a video is located.

In another embodiment the media delivery system may be a television program provider such as a cable television company a radio program broadcaster or any other system capable of delivering media content segments and or sponsored content segments to the media devices A and B over communications network .

The sponsor may be a commercial or government entity for example. The sponsor may create and provide using server sponsored content segments to be served on the media devices A and B. The sponsored content segments may be served directly from the sponsor to the media devices A and B or may be provided to the media delivery system which then may serve the sponsored content segments to the media devices A and B.

The network may be any communications network that allows the transmission of signals media messages voice and data to the media devices A and B over communications path from another media device computer or server such as servers and including radio linear broadcast over the air cable and satellite television on demand channels over the top media including streaming video movies video clips and games and text email and still images and transmission of signals media messages voice and data from the media devices A and B to another media device computer or server. The network includes the Internet cellular systems satellite systems and other current and future mechanisms for transmission of these and other media. The network may be both wired and wireless.

The media devices A and B the media delivery system and or the sponsor may include a system see for matching the audio of sponsored content segments to that of nearby media content segments . In one embodiment the media devices A and B include a system that detects or processes the audio levels of displayed videos and either adjusts the audio levels of video advertisements served in proximity to the displayed videos or sends a signal to for example the media delivery system calling for a video advertisement whose audio level matches that of the nearby videos. In an embodiment the viewer may enable or disable such audio matching by operation of the media devices A and B.

In another embodiment an audio matching system included with server either calls for video advertisements whose audio level matches that of nearby videos or adjusts the audio levels of video advertisements that will be served in proximity to videos being displayed at the media devices A and B. In yet another embodiment the sponsor incorporates aspects of an audio matching system. In one aspect of these later two embodiments a decision to match through advertisement selection or audio adjustment audio levels between video advertisements and videos is based on a request from the viewer . In another aspect the match decision is based on learned behavior of the viewer e.g. the viewer mutes video advertisements whose audio levels are excessive . In yet another aspect the match decision is based on learned behavior of a group of similarly placed viewers. These and other aspects of the audio matching systems are discussed with respect to .

The videos may be listed in a video playlist. The playlist may include favorite videos that the viewer has collected and may watch periodically. The playlist may be stored at the media device A and includes links to specific videos which are accessed by activating or following the links i.e. urls to the appropriate Web page. Furthermore the playlist may be identified by a given name or identification as belonging to the viewer and the playlist contents may be stored away from the media player A for example in a cloud storage or at a Web page.

In playlist includes videos . As referred to earlier the videos are main videos. The videos may be related to a common theme such as classical music rock music or sports shows for example. Alternately the playlist may include eclectic videos. In proximity to at least some of the videos are advertisement spots . Advertisements are shown placed in advertisement spots . In the illustrated example an advertisement spot and a corresponding advertisement follows each of the videos . However each video need not be followed or preceded by an advertisement spot and a corresponding advertisement . For example an advertisement spot and a corresponding advertisement may be placed between specific videos between videos of a specific artist artist theme subject or genre only during specific times and in specific locations i.e. the advertisement spots do not appear in the same location in every play of the playlist . Furthermore the playlist may allow shuffling which may affect the placement of advertisement spots . Finally for example an advertisement spot and a corresponding advertisement need not be interspersed between each pair of videos at least some videos are preceded or followed by an advertisement .

In an embodiment one or more of the advertisements are video advertisements that include an audio component or otherwise have audio features. Alternately one or more of the advertisements may be rich media advertisements or animated advertisements that include audio components or audio features.

In the example of the advertisements and the videos may be created with the same or with different base audio levels and the same or different audio spectrums. For example video may have a base audio level of 70 dB and an audio spectrum ranging from a low of 64 dB to a high of 76 dB and advertisement may have a base audio level of 76 dB and a range of 70 to 82 db. In this example when video ends and advertisement begins the viewer may experience a sharp increase or jump in audio level or volume in this example as much as 6 dB in base audio level from media device A.

In one aspect of the playlist the selected videos are saved at a remote server such as the server . When the viewer selects playlist to play on media device A the server begins the process of matching video advertisements to videos .

More specifically each of the video segments and may include a number of frames F and when these frames F are played on the media devices A or B the audio levels may vary from frame to frame. For example video segment includes at the end of the video segment frames and . The audio associated with these frames and may differ and may differ from frames not shown preceding them in the video segment . Nonetheless the audio levels in the frames and and indeed in the entire video segment may have a base level and may be constrained by an upper audio level and a lower audio level that define an audio spectrum for the frames and the entire video segment . Video advertisement may have a base audio level and an audio spectrum that is the same as or different from those of the video segment . In an example the base audio level and the upper audio level of the video advertisement are twice as high as those of the video segment . The sharp increase or jump in audio level when the video segment ends and the video advertisement begins may cause discomfort to or annoy the viewer . In response the viewer may mute the video advertisement thereby eviscerating the effect of the video advertisement .

Similarly the base audio level and upper audio level of the advertisement may be significantly higher than the base audio level and upper audio level of frames and i.e. the first two frames of video segment and the base audio level and upper audio level of the advertisement may be significantly higher than the base audio level and upper audio level of frames and i.e. the last two frames of video segment and significantly higher than frames and i.e. the first two frames of video segment .

To address the above described problem of sharply differing audio levels the herein disclosed systems and methods may attempt to match audio levels between and among the video segments and the video advertisements. In one embodiment the matching occurs between the audio levels e.g. base audio level and or audio spectrum of the last few frames of a video segment and those of the succeeding video advertisement. In another embodiment the matching occurs between the base audio level and or audio spectrum of the entire video segment and the succeeding video advertisement. In yet another embodiment the matching occurs between the base audio level and or the audio spectrum of the video advertisement and the succeeding video spectrum. In still another embodiment the matching occurs between the base audio level and audio spectrum of the video advertisement and those of both the preceding and succeeding video segments.

Furthermore the audio matching may relate to selecting a video advertisement that has base audio and audio spectrum levels that are compatible e.g. within a defined decibel range of those of either or both of the preceding and succeeding video segments. Alternately the audio matching may involve reducing the base audio level and or the upper audio level of the video advertisement relative to those of either or both the preceding or succeeding video segments. In one aspect the audio level reductions may involve a prompt sustained reduction in audio levels of the video advertisement. In another aspect the initial audio levels of the video advertisement may be reduced to better match that of the preceding video segment and then may be allowed to ramp up to the originally designed audio levels. In still another aspect the audio levels of the video advertisement may be ramped down to match that of the succeeding video segment. As noted above this audio matching may be based on the entire video segment s or a few frames starting or ending of the video segment s .

Rather than considering the audio levels of video segment frames the audio matching may be performed based on a time block of the video segment such as the last minute of a video segment preceding or the first minute of a video segment succeeding .

In media device A includes data storage unit A the browser A the application A media player A and audio matching system . Audio matching system which is described below includes viewer selection module audio level detection module signal generator module audio adjustor module and reporting module . The audio matching system may be installed as a program of instructions into a non transitory computer readable storage medium . The computer readable storage medium may be implemented as a part of a data storage unit A of the media device A. The program of instructions may be read into memory and executed by processor . The processor may be a hardware component of the media device A. In an embodiment the system is included as a component of the browser A. In an aspect the system is included with installation of the browser A in the media device A. In another aspect the system is pushed to the media device A from for example the server and may be a plug in to the browser A. In another embodiment the system is updated periodically or a periodically by updates pushed from the server to the media device A. The system may be executed in cooperation with the browser A and the media player A. The system also may be executed in cooperation with browser A and application A.

In an embodiment the media delivery system of provides the media player A to the media device A for presenting media content. To illustrate provision of the media player A in the media player A is shown at the system the viewing location and in transit between the system and the viewing location . The media player A may be a video player capable of presenting audio and or video content. The media player A may additionally or alternatively present any type of media content. The media player A may be implemented in any manner. For example the media player A may be implemented in Adobe Flash e.g. provided in a SWF file in hypertext markup language HTML e.g. HTML version 5 HTML5 or in Google Chromium . The media player A may be implemented according to the Open Source Media Framework OSMF according to a device or operating system provider s media player application programming interface API or on a device or operating system provider s media player framework e.g. the Apple iOS MPMoviePlayer software .

In the illustrated example of the media player A executes in an execution environment e.g. Google Native Client environment Netscape Plug in Application Programming Interface NPAPI etc. in browser A. Alternatively the media player A may execute directly on the media device A e.g. the Adobe FIash execution environment in the Google Chromium execution environment the AppIe iOS environment the Google Android environment and the Hewlett Packard webOS environment for example may execute directly in the browser A without the use of an execution environment or may execute in an execution environment in association with the browser A. In an example the media player A is a media player that is not executed in a Web browser.

In an embodiment the media player A is transmitted to the media device A after the media device A requests media content from the system . For example the media player A may be transmitted to the media device A in response to a first or initial request for presentation of media content by the media player A i.e. when the media device A does not already have the media player A stored e.g. in a storage cache repository such as in the browser A . Alternatively the media player A may be transmitted to the media device A each time media content is requested i.e. regardless of whether or not the media device A already stores the media player A . In another embodiment the media player A is transmitted at a time not associated with a request for media content from the media device A. For example the media delivery system may push the media player A to the media device A with another product may transmit the media player A in response to a request by the media device A for the media player A and or upon the media device A or the viewer signing up for some service and or group e.g. joining an audience measurement panel run by for example an audience measurement entity . For example the media device A may request that the media player A be transmitted so that the media device A is prepared to receive and present media content e.g. videos at a later time. In an embodiment after the media player A has been sent to the media device A the media device A may store the media player A for later access e.g. after the media player A has been terminated and or after a browser A or application A has been terminated and thus the media device A will not receive the media player A in a subsequent transaction with the media delivery system .

The media player A obtains media content to be presented from the media delivery system that provided the media player A and or from other media content providers. For example when the media device A requests presentation of a particular video the media player A and or the browser A requests the particular video from the corresponding media delivery system. For example the media player A may instruct the browser A to request the video. When the requested video is received from the system the media player A presents the video at the media device A. The media player A may include controls for allowing the viewer to control the presentation of the media content e.g. pause play fast forward rewind volume up or down mute etc. .

The media player A may include a meter A. alternately the meter A may be installed apart from the media player A. The meter A notes the played audio level of interstitial content segments e.g. video advertisements when the system operates to truncate the audio spectrum or lower the base audio level of the video advertisement. The meter A may present this data back to the media delivery system .

Turning to the audio matching system the viewer selection module is optional and may allow the viewer to implement audio matching features of the system . For example the viewer may be able to turn on and off the audio matching features provided by the system . This selection may be provided to the viewer through use of an on screen interface such as a dialog box pull down menu or similar device. Selection of audio matching may be a default setting. Alternately selection of audio matching may be confirmed each time the viewer elects to view video programs that contain video advertising slots such as those shown in . When the viewer elects audio matching the system then may operate in an automatic mode to apply audio matching as disclosed herein.

The audio level detection module may detect the base audio level of a displayed video to determine if audio matching to possible video advertisements is required. For example a video may have a base audio level of 70 dB and an audio spectrum of 67 73 dB. These audio values may be stored by the server and provided as metadata related to the video when the viewer requests display of the video e.g. the viewer clicks on a link to the video or instructs the video player A to play the video such as the video of or to access a video playlist such as the playlist of . Thus when the viewer has elected audio matching and the base audio of the video to be displayed is 70 dB the module may output message indicating that any served video advertisements must have a base audio that matches the video s base audio level of 70 dB.

The signal generator module generates a base audio signal and an audio profile as needed for the videos and the video advertisements. The signals may be generated on the fly that is while the videos and video advertisements are playing respectively.

As installed in the media device A the system may effectuate audio matching by one of at least two mechanisms. In a first mechanism audio matching entails messaging an external server such as the server that audio matching is requested by the viewer . With this mechanism the server then executes the requested audio matching. The server may select for consideration to be served with the video only those video advertisements with the same or similar audio levels as the video program being displayed. Alternately the server may reduce the base audio level of the video advertisement to more closely agree with that of the video and or may truncate the upper audio level of the video advertisement. The sever then serves a video advertisement whose audio levels are the same as or close to those of the video. Thus signal generator module may send a message to server requesting audio matching of video advertisements that may be served during or in proximity to play of the video.

In a second mechanism audio adjustment module reduces the base level of any received video advertisements and or truncates the high level audio of the video advertisements so as to be the same or similar to those of the displayed video. However with this mechanism the server may have been notified of the desire to match audio levels and in response the server only serves audio advertisements for which the sponsor has not designated audio as impermissible.

The audio adjustment mechanism of the module may execute to override the normal volume controls of the media device A. Alternately the mechanism when executed modify the internal volume control signal of the media device A so that the audio level output of the media device A is within a specified amount of the viewer s requested base audio level with no audio levels outside the bounds of a corresponding audio spectrum.

The reporting module optionally reports to the server when the audio adjustment module has reduced the base audio level and or the high audio level of a video advertisement. The reporting module also optionally may receive an actual played audio signal loud to quiet mute from the media player A and report the data to the media delivery system .

In audio matching system includes audio requirements module advertisement selection module advertisement auction module audio adjustment module and reporting module . The audio matching system may be installed as a program of instructions into a non transitory computer readable storage medium . The computer readable storage medium may be implemented as a part of a data storage unit of the server . The program of instructions may be read into memory and executed by processor . The processor may be a hardware component of the server .

The audio requirements module may receive an input from media device A indicating the viewer desires audio matching between or among videos to be displayed at the media device A and video advertisements to be served in proximity to the displayed videos. The viewer s input may be a one time input which the viewer subsequently may change. In this event the system may perform audio matching until requested otherwise by the viewer .

In a first aspect the advertisement selection module operates to select only video advertisements whose base audio and possibly audio spectrum are the same as or closely approximate those of nearby videos. The selected video advertisements then may be processed through an auction system to select a video advertisement to serve with the video. In a second aspect the advertisement selection module provides a weighting factor to video advertisements whose base audio and possibly audio spectrum are the same as or closely approximate those of nearby videos. The weighting factor increases the likelihood that the weighted video advertisement will be selected in the auction process. In third aspect the advertisement selection module selects only those video advertisements whose creator or owner e.g. the sponsor has consented to audio matching. The thus selected video advertisements are processed through the auction system to determine which video advertisement to serve with a video.

Video advertisements selected according to the first and second aspects do not experience reduction of base audio level or truncation of high level audio. Video advertisements selected according to the third aspect have their base audio and possibly high level audio adjusted by the system . Alternately video advertisements chosen according to the third aspect have their base audio and possibly high level audio adjusted by the system see or another entity.

The advertisement auction module selects from a pool of candidate video advertisements selected by the first or second aspect of the module a video advertisement to serve with a video using any one of a number of auction methods.

If the second aspect of the module is followed the audio adjustment module adjusts e.g. generally decreases the base audio level and possibly truncates the audio spectrum of the video advertisement selected by the auction module . Alternately such audio matching is performed in the media device A.

The reporting module optionally sends a report to the sponsor whenever the system performs audio matching for a video advertisement that is served with a video. The reporting module also optionally may report to the appropriate sponsor such as sponsor all audio matching including audio matching for video advertisements that the auction module does not select. This sponsor feedback allows the sponsor to consider changing the audio of its video advertisements.

Besides the example systems illustrated in audio matching between and among videos and video advertisements or between or among any other types of media including multiple videos rich media applications radio television streaming and broadcast may be implemented between a client e.g. the media device A and a server e.g. the server using many different combination of modules and devices illustrated in and described above.

In block the system determines audio level parameters of second media in the example audio level parameters of video advertisements. For example there may be several candidate video advertisements to serve at the media device A when the playlist is played. The candidate advertisements may have base audio levels that range again on a scale of 0 9 from 4 9. The system may determine these base audio levels by a learning algorithm that notes base audio levels when the video advertisements play. Alternately the base audio levels may be included as metadata associated with each of the video advertisements. Finally the system may determine in block if a sponsor will allow adjustment or scaling of the audio parameters associated with a specific video advertisement.

In block the system selects video advertisement s that match audio level parameters of the main video. In block the system then makes selected video advertisement s available for display at the media device A. In block the media device A reports the play of the served video advertisement s including the played audio parameters e.g. the viewer may have muted the video advertisement despite the actions of the system to match audio levels of the video advertisement to that of the main video . The method then ends.

In block the system applies a weighting factor to each of the video advertisements selected in blocks and remaining after block . In an embodiment the system applies to each of the non discarded block candidate interstitial videos whose audio parameters require modification to match those of the first main video and a second weighting factor to each of the non discarded candidate interstitial videos whose audio parameters do not require modification block to match those of the first main video. In an embodiment the second weighting factor is larger than the first weighting factor which shows a preference for not having to modify the audio parameters of a video advertisement when serving that video advertisement at a media device such as the media device A.

In block the system places the video advertisements resulting after the process of block into a video advertisement selection process. In an embodiment the video advertisement selection process is an auction process. In block the system identifies the best video advertisement for an interstitial in the playlist . In block the system determines additional interstitials are available for serving video advertisements. If no more interstitials are available the method moves to block . Otherwise the method returns to block .

In block begins supplying the main videos of the playlist and the selected advertisements to the media device A. In block the system determines if a video advertisement that is to be served results from the process of block i.e. the video advertisement s audio parameters match those of the main videos or from the process of block i.e. the video advertisement s audio parameters require scaling or adjustment . If a video advertisement s audio requires scaling or adjustment the method moves to block and the system invokes an audio scaling or adjustment process. In an embodiment the audio scaling or adjustment process involves passing the audio through a filter not shown . In another embodiment the system appends an instruction to the video advertisement that directs media player A to play the video advertisement at the required base audio level and to limit high level audio according to a specified audio spectrum. Following either block no adjustment or block the video advertisement is served to the media device A. The method then determines in block if any additional video advertisements are to be served. If additional video advertisements are to be served e.g. the viewer does not stop the media player A the method returns to block . Otherwise the method moves to block and ends.

In block the system determines the base audio level of the video advertisement to be served after play of the first main video. The system may determine the base audio level on the fly that is by measuring the base audio as the video advertisement plays on the media player A. Alternately the system may determine the base audio level of the video advertisement by reference to metadata associated with the video advertisement and provided by the server . The metadata may be provided in advance of the play of any of the main videos. Alternately the metadata may be provided on the fly but sufficiently in advance of display of a main video so as to comply with the viewer s request for audio matching.

In block the system determines if the base audio level of the video advertisement requires adjustment. The base audio level of the video advertisement may not require adjustment for at least two reasons first the server may have selected a video advertisement whose base audio level already matches that of the main video s second the server may already have adjusted the audio level. In block if no audio adjustment is needed the method moves to block . In block if the audio requires adjustment the method moves to block and the system performs an audio adjustment of the base audio of the video advertisement. The method then moves to block .

In block the media player A plays the video advertisement. In block the system records or saves the played audio level of the video advertisement. The method then determines in block if there are any remaining interstitials for which a video advertisement may be served. If other interstitials exist the method returns to block and the processes of blocks are repeated. If there are no more interstitials the method moves to block and the system reports as played audio levels of the video advertisements to the server . The method then ends.

In block a server receives a request for a video play with a constrained base audio level In block the server accesses a library of videos that may satisfy the request. In block the server determines which if any of the videos in the library satisfy the base audio constraint i.e. which videos have base audio levels that are less than the constraint . In block if the server identifies videos that satisfy the constraint the method moves to block . Otherwise the method moves to block . In block the server determines if modification of the base audio is permitted for the videos in the library. If modification of the base audio is not permitted the method moves to block . If modification of the base audio is permitted the method moves to block and the server applies a weighting factor to the videos. The method then moves to block . In block the server executes an auction to select a video to play in response to the request. In block the server provides the video winning the auction.

In audio control method begins in block when a media device sends a request to a remote server for a video play. In block the media device receives a media player from the remote server. In block the media device stores the media player. In block the media device receives a requested video and the media player begins play of the media device. In block the media player detects an impending slot in which an interstitial video may be played. In block the media device sends a request for an interstitial video to play in the impending interstitial slot. In block the media player receives an interstitial video in response to the request. In block the media player plays the interstitial video. In block the media player reports to the server the actual played audio level of the interstitial video. In block the media player resumes play of the main video until completion. The method then ends.

In audio control process begins in block when server receives a request from media device A to play a series of main videos that are referenced by playlist . The playlist may be stored with the server . In response to the request of block in block the server retrieves the playlist and notes that the playlist is annotated to request any interstitial videos be played with a predetermined base audio level. Optionally the playlist also may be annotated to limit the maximum or high level audio of any interstitial videos i.e. the playlist may be annotated to limit the audio spectrum of any interstitial videos .

In block the server notes possible interstitials in the playlist . In block the server identifies interstitial videos to serve in one or more of the interstitials . In block the server assigns the interstitial videos to respective interstitials . Thus interstitial video may be assigned to interstitial . The assignment of interstitial videos to interstitials may be based on a number of factors. In one aspect the assignment is based on maximizing the revenue from the overall interstitial assignment assuming each assigned interstitial video plays i.e. the viewer does not terminate the media player A . Thus the order of interstitial videos to main videos may determine the maximum revenue derived from playing the main videos and the assigned interstitial videos . In this aspect then when an interstitial video is assigned to an interstitial the actual assignment may be chosen so that a specific interstitial video follows a specific main video . This may be because the viewer may shuffle the order of playing the main videos or may skip one or more main videos . Such actions by the viewer may for example determine if a specific interstitial video plays at all.

In block the server sends to the media player A a first main video . In block the server receives a request to play the first interstitial video . The process may continue thus until all main videos play and all interstitial videos are served. However in block the server receives a request from the media player A to skip i.e. not play main video . In block the server reevaluates the assignment of interstitial videos to interstitials with main video not playing. If in block the total revenue is negatively affected the server reassigns interstitial videos to interstitials . If the total revenue is not negatively affected the server does not make the reassignment. In block the server resumes normal play of the playlist . In block play of the playlist concludes and the process ends.

The above disclosure generally refers to media as video. However the systems and methods may apply to any type of media including radio. In generally the disclosure relates to an audio matching system and a corresponding audio matching method for controlling interstitial media in any media type. The method includes sending by a processor a request to an external server to deliver a plurality of main media segments to the media device receiving at the media device a first main media segment playing at the media device the received first main media segment determining by the processor audio parameters of the first main media segment determining by the processor audio parameters of a first interstitial media segment to be served in proximity to the first main media segment determining by the processor when the audio parameters of the first interstitial media segment require adjustment to match those of the first main media segment when audio parameter adjustment is required adjusting by the processor the audio parameters of the first interstitial media segment and playing the first main video followed by the first interstitial video.

Certain of the devices shown in the herein described figures include a computing system. The computing system includes a processor CPU and a system bus that couples various system components including a system memory such as read only memory ROM and random access memory RAM to the processor. Other system memory may be available for use as well. The computing system may include more than one processor or a group or cluster of computing system networked together to provide greater processing capability. The system bus may be any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. A basic input output BIOS stored in the ROM or the like may provide basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within the computing system such as during start up. The computing system further includes data stores which maintain a database according to known database management systems. The data stores may be embodied in many forms such as a hard disk drive a magnetic disk drive an optical disk drive tape drive or another type of computer readable media which can store data that are accessible by the processor such as magnetic cassettes flash memory cards digital versatile disks cartridges random access memories RAM and read only memory ROM . The data stores may be connected to the system bus by a drive interface. The data stores provide nonvolatile storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computing system.

To enable human and in some instances machine user interaction the computing system may include an input device such as a microphone for speech and audio a touch sensitive screen for gesture or graphical input keyboard mouse motion input and so forth. An output device can include one or more of a number of output mechanisms. In some instances multimodal systems enable a user to provide multiple types of input to communicate with the computing system. A communications interface generally enables the computing device system to communicate with one or more other computing devices using various communication and network protocols.

The preceding disclosure refers to a flow chart and accompanying description to illustrate the embodiments represented in . The disclosed devices components and systems contemplate using or implementing any suitable technique for performing the steps illustrated. Thus are for illustration purposes only and the described or similar steps may be performed at any appropriate time including concurrently individually or in combination. In addition many of the steps in the flow charts may take place simultaneously and or in different orders than as shown and described. Moreover the disclosed systems may use processes and methods with additional fewer and or different steps.

Embodiments disclosed herein can be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or in computer software firmware or hardware including the herein disclosed structures and their equivalents. Some embodiments can be implemented as one or more computer programs i.e. one or more modules of computer program instructions encoded on computer storage medium for execution by one or more processors. A computer storage medium can be or can be included in a computer readable storage device a computer readable storage substrate or a random or serial access memory. The computer storage medium can also be or can be included in one or more separate physical components or media such as multiple CDs disks or other storage devices. The computer readable storage medium does not include a transitory signal.

The herein disclosed methods can be implemented as operations performed by a processor on data stored on one or more computer readable storage devices or received from other sources.

A computer program also known as a program module engine software software application script or code can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages declarative or procedural languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module component subroutine object or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program may but need not correspond to a file in a file system. A program can be stored in a portion of a file that holds other programs or data e.g. one or more scripts stored in a markup language document in a single file dedicated to the program in question or in multiple coordinated files e.g. files that store one or more modules sub programs or portions of code . A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers that are located at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network.

