---

title: Identification and presentation of electronic content significant to a user
abstract: Content that is significant to a user may be determined. An indication that a user finds content within a document significant may be received. In response to the received indication, the document may be analyzed to identify a set of topics associated with the content of the document. From the set of topics, a subset of topics responsible for the user finding the document significant may be identified. A user profile associated with the user may be updated based on the subset of topics.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09384194&OS=09384194&RS=09384194
owner: FACEBOOK, INC.
number: 09384194
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130315
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 834 716 filed Mar. 15 2013 and title Identification of Electronic Content Significant to a User which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 839 767 filed Jul. 20 2010 and titled Identification of Electronic Content Significant to a User which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 538 383 filed Oct. 3 2006 now issue as U.S. Pat. No. 7 783 622 and title Identification of Electronic Content Significant to a User which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 820 033 filed Jul. 21 2006 and titled Smart I Like That or I Hate That Button and U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 820 879 filed Jul. 31 2006 and titled Identification of Electronic Content Significant to a User . The contents of each of the aforementioned applications and patents are hereby incorporated reference in their entirety.

A user profile that includes information about user preferences topics of interest to a user and the user s web browsing behavior can be associated with a user. The user profile is generated automatically for the user based on the user s online activities. Additionally or alternatively the user profile is generated based on information provided by the user. The information stored within the user profile is used to provide a customized user experience. For example electronic content can be recommended to a user as content the user is likely to enjoy based on information stored in the user profile.

In a general aspect content that is significant to a user is determined. An indication that a user finds content within a document significant is received. The document is analyzed to identify a set of topics associated with the content of the document in response to the received indication. From the set of topics a subset of topics responsible for the user finding the document significant is identified. A user profile associated with the user is updated based on the subset of topics.

With respect to at least the general aspect implementations may include one or more of the following features. For example the subset of topics may include a single topic or the subset of topics may include multiple topics. Content within the document that is related to the subset of topics also may be determined. Updating the user profile based on the subset of topics may include updating the user profile based on the determined content within the document.

Identifying a subset of topics may include enabling the user to perceive the set of topics prompting the user to select a particular topic that is related to the indication and receiving from the user a selection of the particular topic that is related to the indication.

Identifying a subset of topics may include accessing the user profile associated with the user determining topics identified as being significant to the user based on the user profile comparing the set of topics to the determined topics and based on the comparison identifying the subset of topics. The topics previously indicated as being significant to the user may be selected by the user.

Identifying the subset of topics may include selecting one of the topics from among the set of topics as a particular topic that is related to the indication presenting the particular topic to the user and enabling the user to veto the particular topic as the topic that is related to the indication. As part of the veto the user may be enabled to identify a different topic as the particular topic.

Receiving an indication that a user finds content within a document significant may include receiving an indication of selection by a user of a content significance user interface element. The content significance user interface element may float within a display that is perceivable to the user. The content significance user interface element may be included in a toolbar of a browser application. The content significance user interface element may be configured such that selection of the element indicates that the user is interested in particular content. The content significance user interface element may be configured such that selection of the element indicates that the user is not interested in particular content.

Analyzing the document to determine more than one topic associated with the content of the document may include determining content being viewed or accessed by the user at the time the indication was received determining a type for the viewed or accessed content cleaning up the viewed or accessed content based on the type and determining significant content from the cleaned up content. Cleaning up the viewed or accessed content may include removing information that is extraneous to the content actually viewed or accessed by the user.

The content being viewed by the user may include content within the document that was perceivable to the user at the time the indication was received. The content that was perceivable to the user may include content that was presented for display to the user. The content being accessed by the user may include all content within the document regardless of whether the content was currently perceivable to the user at the time the indication was received.

The type for the viewed or accessed content may be determined based on the method used in determining the content being viewed or accessed by the user at the time the indication was received. The content being viewed or accessed may be determined by querying an operating system application programming interface API screen capture and or communications monitoring.

Cleaning up the viewed or accessed content may include removing information metadata and formatting extraneous to text that includes content actually viewed or accessed by the user. Cleaning up may include performing speech to text optical character recognition visual pattern recognition image analysis and or metadata inspection techniques to determine the content actually viewed or accessed by the user. Determining significant content from the cleaned up content may include using term frequency inverse document frequency TF IDF a uniform resource locator URL a file name content of or URL for previously viewed web pages links to the viewed or accessed content and or the user profile.

A request for content may be received from a user. Information in the user profile may be used to inform content provided in response to the request. The request for content may include a search query an indication to add content to a video inbox a request for a web document a request for an audio and or video playlist and or a request for recommendations.

Using the information in the user profile to inform content provided in response to the request may include providing content that the user is most likely to find satisfactory based on information in the user profile related to information the user has found satisfactory in the past. The provided content may be search results ranked search results video audio video or audio playlists and or recommended content or web pages.

The user profile associated with a user may be stored on a client device. Updating the user profile may be performed by the client device. A request for content may be received from a user. The request and information from a user profile associated with the user may be transmitted to a host device. The host device may be configured to determine content to provide in response to the request based on the request and information in the user profile.

The user profile associated with a user may be stored on a host device. Updating the user profile may be performed by the host device. A request for content may be received from a user. A user identity associated with the user may be received. A user profile associated with the user identity may be accessed. Content to provide in response to the request may be determined based on information within the accessed user profile. The content may be transmitted to a client device for display to the user.

The content within the document that is related to the particular topic may include keywords a uniform resource locator URL and or a category associated with the significant content.

Implementations of any of the techniques described may include a method or process an apparatus or system or computer software on a computer accessible medium. The details of particular implementations are set forth below. Other features will be apparent from the description and drawings and from the claims.

An I Like This Button may be implemented as a feature in any device capable of enabling a user to browse electronic content and may be used to identify a particular topic of interest among multiple potential topics presented to a user in a single reference. Moreover the I Like This Button may be implemented in a manner that is entirely independent of the content provisioning system thereby enabling it to be used to indicate interest in any content available across the Internet. The button may be visually presented for example as a floating button in a user interface that floats over any displayed content or alternatively may be presented in the header menu bar or toolbar of any such user interface.

Upon selection of the I Like This Button the device and or a remote system communicating with the device analyzes the electronic content presented to the user at the time of selection of the button. The electronic content may be limited to content presently displayed by the device or if the content is a web page to all content contained within the web page irrespective of what portion of the web page is currently displayed. Textual content may be extracted and searched for key terms topic based on frequency user specified interests taxonomies or any other criteria that may be effectively used to focus in on topics of importance in displayed text e.g. the URL of the web page itself may inform which topics are more important the referring web page URL may help determine which topics are important historic search terms used by the user or any other information determined from passive and active feedback . Once a set of topics are identified based on the content currently perceived by the user the user may be prompted to choose from among the set of topics to identify the one or more topics that are really of interest to him or her. In an entirely passive system the system does not prompt the user to select a topic but instead shows the user the topic that was determined by the system to be of interest and enables the user to change the topic upon his or her own initiative.

If the electronic content is multimedia content having a video and or audio component audio metadata and or speech to text may be used to convert the audio to text that may be searched as described above. Similarly video metadata or visual pattern recognition image analysis techniques may be used to determine topics related to displayed video.

After having determined the topic s of interest to the user the topic s may be used to update a user profile. The user profile builds up over time and may be used to better tailor any service offerings advertisements notices or alerts sent to the user. The user profile also may be used to modify search results presented to the user in response to a search request e.g. by adding or removing search results or by changing search result rankings . The topics may be further used to modify the contents of the user s video inbox. The updating of the user profile and video inbox may occur entirely passively or may occur after specifically prompting the user for permission to update his her user profile and or video inbox with the determined topics.

The user may select the I Like This button to indicate interest in electronic content that is accessible over a network and or that is locally stored. For example the user may select the I Like This button to indicate interest in a song that he or she has locally stored on a portable MP3 player or a picture taken by him or her that is currently being viewed on a portable camera.

The client receives an indication that a user finds some content to be significant . The indication may be for example the selection by a user of a content significance graphical user interface GUI element e.g. an I Like That or I Like This button as described in more detail below.

The client determines content that was presently being viewed or accessed by the user when the indication was received . The content currently being viewed or accessed by a user may be determined using an operating system OS such as for example Windows application programming interface API a screen capture or communications monitoring. The API may be used to identify programs that were rendered in a display and made perceivable to the user at the time of selection of the button. For example a word processing program and an email inbox may have been rendered e.g. made perceivable to the user at the time of selection of the I Like This button. Thus client may seek textual information that was presented by the word processing program or the email inbox and may have been viewed by the user at the time the button was selected. In one implementation for example the client may identify documents or files that were recently accessed or are presently being accessed by the word processing program or the email inbox. The client may access those documents or files and analyze the text therein to determine content to which the user s selection of the I Like This button may have been referring.

Additionally the programs that were rendered may have been active e.g. maximized or inactive e.g. minimized into a tool bar or tray at the time when the I Like This button was selected. If a program was inactive client may determine that the content currently being accessed by the inactive program is not a good candidate for the significant content because the user was not currently viewing or accessing the inactive content when the I Like This button was selected. Similarly client may determine that content that was accessed by an active program when the I Like This button was selected may be more likely to be the content to which the user was referring as significant.

Screen capture also may be used by client to determine windows that were currently displayed to and perceivable by the user when the button was selected. For example only the word processing program may have been on the screen. Thus client may determine that only content accessed by the word processing program may be a good candidate for the significant content because all other currently rendered programs were not perceivable to the user at the time of selection of the I Like This button.

Communications monitoring also may be used by client to determine information that was recently received by a client from an external data source and thus possibly related to the user s selection of the I Like This button. By monitoring a communications stream the most recent item to have been received such as for example an email or instant message may be identified by client . Since this item was the last one received by the user and possibly based on information that the user was actively interacting with recent communications e.g. determination that the API had rendered an email inbox or an instant messaging program e.g. AIM the client may determine that the recently received item includes content that the user was referring to when the user selected the I Like This button.

The client identifies particular content within the viewed or accessed content that is significant to the user as described in more detail below with respect to .

The client updates a user profile associated with the user based on the identified significant content . For example the client may add indicia of the significant content e.g. one or more keywords one or more categories or a uniform resource locator URL associated with the significant content to the user profile. In addition to storing the indicia of significant content in the user profile the stored indicia also may be tagged as significant in order to separate the indicia from other content included in the user profile such as for example interests favorite web pages or user contacts. The client uses the indicia of the significant content in the user profile which may build up over time as the user provides additional indications of significant content to provide additional content to the user . By basing any additional content provided by the client to the user on information in the user profile the additional content may be more likely to be of interest or significance to the user.

A content significance GUI element such as for example an I Like That or I Like This button may be implemented as a feature in a user interface of any device capable of enabling a user to browse electronic content. In one implementation the content significance GUI element is an interface element that may be selected by the user to initiate an indication of significant content through a single user action such as for example a click of a mouse button. It may be desirable to allow a user to indicate significant content by performing a single action or very few actions in that the user can receive a large benefit e.g. increased personalization of the user s online experience while exerting a small amount of extra effort e.g. performing a small number of actions to indicate significant content.

For ease of discussion the content significance GUI element which in one implementation may be a button will be subsequently referred to as an I Like This button. The I Like This button may be implemented in a manner that is entirely independent of the content provisioning system thereby enabling the button to be used to indicate interest in any content stored locally on the user s computer or available across a private or public data network such as for example the Internet. The button may be visually presented for example as a floating button in a user interface that floats over any displayed content or alternatively may be presented in the header menu bar or toolbar of any such user interface.

Upon selection of button the user may be prompted to select one of several possible or candidate topics associated with the web page from a drop down menu . In some implementations the user may select more than one of the candidate topics provided. The candidate topics may be determined based on words and phrases within the Hershey Kitchen Recipes web page e.g. Hershey s Kitchens Recipes Ideas Chocolate Bread and Muffins . Words and phrases from within the web page may be selected based on how frequently the particular word or phrase appears in the web page. For example the more frequently a word appears in the web page the more likely the word is significant to the content of the web page and perhaps the user. Candidate topics also may be determined based on a category associated with the web page. A category for the web page may be determined from metatags or other metadata embedded in the web page source e.g. hypertext markup language HTML . Such metatags and metadata are typically used by search engines to determine if a web page is related to a particular search query and thus the same information may be used to determine categories or themes that are important to the overall content of the web page. Additionally or alternatively information related to a web page that includes a link to the present web page e.g. a referring web page also may be used to determine a topic within the web page that may be significant to the user and thus that may be used as a good candidate topic.

In such an implementation candidates for significant content may be determined prior to a user selecting the button . For example frequently appearing words metatag information and referring web page information may be determined upon loading and display of a web page in order to prepare for and prior to user selection of button . Alternatively candidate topics may not be determined until after a user has selected button to avoid using resources e.g. memory that may be unnecessarily tied up if the user does not eventually select button in relation to the current web page.

GUI shows that a user has selected Hershey s in drop down menu as the topic that is related to the content the user finds significant. Content within the browser related to Hershey s then may be determined such as for example the featured product of Hershey s Mini Kisses and used to update a user profile associated with the user who selected the I Like This button . The content associated with the selected topic may be identified based on a determination of portions of the web page that are related to the topic by for example determining the portion of the web page in which the word Hershey s appears most frequently.

Notably in this implementation the user may indicate significant content through two actions 1 selection of button and 2 selection of a candidate from a list of identified candidates of significant content.

To attempt to determine which of many topics included in a particular web page for which a user has selected the I Like This button is the topic that is significant to the user several methods may be used as described below with respect to . The process for determining one of many topics as the topic to which the user was referring when the user selected the I Like This button may be referred to as disambiguation.

During operation of client receives an indication that a user finds some content within a web page to be significant. For example the user may select the I Like This button of to indicate that the user finds some content within the Washingtonpost.com to be significant.

Client determines that the indication may be referring to one of multiple topics within the web page . To do so client may determine a frequency of words within the web page analyze metatags and metadata associated with the web page or identify information related to a referring web page. If no small number e.g. one or two of words within the web page have a much higher frequency than other words client may determine that the web page includes multiple topics any one of which may be significant to the user. In another example if the metatags and metadata are related to more than a small number of topics or categories e.g. more than two or three the client may determine that the web page does not include one or two topics that may be of significance to the user. In yet another example if the referring web page does not itself include a reference to or relationship with a particular topic or category of content the client may be unable to determine a particular topic to which the user was most likely referring when the user selected the I Like This button .

Therefore client may have to disambiguate the multiple topics related to the web page to determine the significant content by performing one or more of operations . In particular client may determine if any content within the web page is the dominant content . For example audio or video content within a web page currently being viewed or accessed by a user may be assumed to be the dominant content of the web page and thus the significant content. This may be the case because web pages that include audio and especially video content tend to be focused on the particular audio or video content. However if for some reason the audio or video content cannot be said to be the dominant content such as for example when the audio is unrelated to content or topics identified as being present within the web page and or is playing in the background other methods may be used to determine the significant content.

Client may determine significant content based on information related to a referring web page . For example the uniform resource locator URL of or content within a web page that the user used to arrive at the current web page e.g. a web page on which the user selected a hyperlink to arrive at the current web page may include information that can help client determine the content the user finds significant on the current web page. For example the user may have arrived at the Washingtonpost.com web page after clicking on a link in a web page related to Pandas. Thus the content within the referring web page e.g. pandas may help determine that the content that is significant to the user in the current web page is the story on Tai Shan the baby Giant Panda.

Client may determine significant content based on accessing a user profile to determine possible topics that may be related to the significant content and determining if any of the possible topics are included within the web page . This determination may be successful because users often visit various web pages related to topics in which the user has shown some previous interest. For example a user profile associated with a user may include information related to the National Zoo. Words metatags and other information related to the Washingtonpost.com web page may be analyzed to determine if the web page includes information related to the National Zoo. The Washingtonpost.com web page shown in includes a video of Giant Panda Tai Shan which thus may be determined to be the content that is significant to the user.

Techniques other than those described with respect to also may be used to determine significant content within a web page. For example the positioning of a cursor also may be used as a clue to the content that the user finds significant. For example when a user moves a cursor or mouse pointer over a particular portion of a web page it may be assumed that the portion over which the cursor or mouse pointer includes the content the user finds significant. Alternatively it may be assumed that a user would not place a cursor or mouse pointer over content in which the user was interested because the cursor or mouse pointer may obstruct the user s view of the content. Thus content associated with a portion of a web page where a user has placed a cursor or mouse pointer may automatically be excluded from consideration as being related to content the user found significant.

Additionally and in some implementations term frequency inverse document frequency TF IDF techniques may be used to determine a topic that dominates a web page and thus is likely to be significant to a user. TF IDF is a statistical measure that may be used to evaluate the importance of a particular word or phrase to the importance of a document. For example the importance of a word increases proportionally to the number of times the word appears in a document. However the popularity is offset by how common the word is in all of the documents in the collection e.g. corpus of documents that are being examined. For example a high TF IDF value may be due to a high word frequency in a given document and a low document frequency of the word in the whole collection of documents e.g. corpus . The collection of documents may be any documents to which client has access. It is important to determine frequency of a particular word in the analyzed document in relation to the frequency of the word in documents that may or may not be related to the same topic in order to receive an accurate determination of the significance of a particular word in a particular document.

A uniform resource locator URL or file name associated with a web page also may be used to aid in the determination of significant content. Furthermore the content of or URL for web pages e.g. referring web pages that were viewed prior to the user coming into contact with the viewed or accessed web page may help discern the significant content in the current web page. Moreover information in a user profile associated with the user may provide clues e.g. content or topics the user previously found to be significant as to what content the user presently found significant.

Even if no particular content can be discerned as the significant content within the web page client may identify general information related to the web page and update the user profile accordingly . For example client may determine that the Washingtonpost.com web page shown in is a news web page. This determination may be based on the multitude of topics within the web page the constantly changing nature of the web page and the number of links to and from the main web page of the Washington Post. Thus client may determine that the user likes news web pages. The significant content portion of a user profile associated with the user may therefore be updated with the significant content of news or news web pages. 

Client determines whether any useful information related to determining the significant content was identified . More particularly client determines if any significant content was determined during at least one of operations .

If significant content was determined client proceeds to perform operation of . If no significant content was determined by client e.g. not even information regarding a type of web page client disregards or ignores the indication that the user finds some content within the particular web page to be significant .

Upon selection of an I Like This button a device e.g. client of and or a remote system communicating with the device e.g. host of may be configured to analyze content being viewed or accessed by a user at the time of selection of the button as described above with respect to . In two user action implementations such as for example when a user performs some step before or after selection of an I Like This button to explicitly indicate the content which the user finds significant analysis of the content within a document e.g. a web page to determine the content that the user finds significant may not be necessary. In single user action implementations such as for example when a user selects an I Like This button without providing an indication of content to which the selection of the button refers the content within a document such as for example a web page may be analyzed to determine the content that the user finds significant.

In one implementation the electronic content analyzed as described above may be limited to content presently displayed by the device. For example the content may be a web page where only a portion of the web page is currently perceivable to the user e.g. the user may cause another portion of the web page to become perceivable by using a scroll bar an arrow or a page up or page down command . In this example the electronic content analyzed to determine significant content may be limited to the portion of the web page that was perceivable by the user at the time when the I Like This button was selected. In another implementation all content included within the electronic content may be analyzed to determine the significant content regardless of how much of the electronic content is or was perceivable to the user. For example for a web page the entire electronic content included within the web page may be analyzed even if only a portion of the web page was perceivable to the user when the I Like This button was selected.

Textual content may be extracted and searched for particular content that may be significant to the user based on frequency of terms within the textual content user specified interests e.g. as stored in a user profile taxonomies or any other criteria that may be effectively used to focus in on topics of importance in displayed text. For example a URL of a web page may inform which topics are important a URL of or content within a referring web page may help determine which topics are important historic search terms entered by the user web pages or documents previously viewed by the user or any other information determined from passive and active feedback also may be useful in determining significant content. In some implementations metadata speech to text conversions and visual pattern recognition image analysis techniques may be used to convert audio or video included in multimedia content being viewed or accessed by a user to text that may be searched for particular content that may be significant to a user.

The user profile includes keywords web pages and categories that are significant to the user or are related to content that is significant to the user. The keywords web pages and categories may have been determined based on selection by the user of an I Like This button or by some other means such as for example by a user filling out an interest survey. The keywords may be words that were included in or derived from content that the user indicated was significant or may be words that are related to content that the user likes. The web pages also may be actual web pages the user has viewed and indicated as significant or merely web pages that are related to topics in which the user has indicated an interest. The categories may be determined from an ontology or taxonomy based on and related to the determined keywords and web pages. In one example user profile includes a keyword chocolate a web page http www.aol.com and a category beach .

As new content is determined to be significant to the user keywords web pages categories or other indicia related to the new content may be added to the user profile during operation of . The updating of the user profile may occur entirely passively or may occur after specifically prompting the user for permission to update the user profile based on the determined significant content.

The user profile may build up over time and may be used to help provide the user with additional content that the user is most likely to find interesting or significant. For example information in the user profile may be used to better tailor any service offerings advertisements notices or alerts sent to the user content recommended to the user content provided in a video or audio inbox associated with the user or the order of content within a document that is presented to the user. The user profile also may be used to modify search results presented to the user in response to a search request by for example adding or removing search results or by changing search result rankings or groupings.

The user profile may be stored locally on a client device or alternatively across a network at a host device as described in detail below with respect to .

Each of the client and the host may be implemented by for example a general purpose computer capable of responding to and executing instructions in a defined manner a personal computer a special purpose computer a workstation a server a device a component other equipment or some combination thereof capable of responding to and executing instructions. The client and host may be configured to receive instructions from for example a software application a program a piece of code a device a computer a computer system or a combination thereof which independently or collectively direct operations as described herein. The instructions may be embodied permanently or temporarily in any type of machine component equipment storage medium or propagated signal that is capable of being delivered to the client or the host .

The client may include one or more devices capable of accessing content on the host . The host may include a general purpose computer e.g. a personal computer PC capable of responding to and executing instructions in a defined manner a workstation a notebook computer a PDA Personal Digital Assistant a wireless phone a component other equipment or some combination of these items that is capable of responding to and executing instructions.

In one implementation the client includes one or more information retrieval software applications e.g. a browser a mail application an instant messaging client an Internet service provider client a media player or an AOL TV or other integrated client capable of receiving one or more data units. The information retrieval applications may run on a general purpose operating system and a hardware platform that includes a general purpose processor and specialized hardware for graphics communications and or other capabilities. In another implementation the client may include a wireless telephone running a micro browser application on a reduced operating system with general purpose and specialized hardware capable of operating in mobile environments.

The network includes hardware and or software capable of enabling direct or indirect communications between the client and the search system . As such the network may include a direct link between the client and the search system or it may include one or more networks or sub networks between them not shown . Each network or sub network may include for example a wired or wireless data pathway capable of carrying and receiving data. Examples of the delivery network include the Internet the World Wide Web a WAN Wide Area Network a LAN Local Area Network analog or digital wired and wireless telephone networks radio television cable satellite and or any other delivery mechanism for carrying data.

The host may include a general purpose computer having a central processor unit CPU and memory storage devices that store data and various programs such as an operating system and one or more application programs. Other examples of a host includes a workstation a server a special purpose device or component a broadcast system other equipment or some combination thereof capable of responding to and executing instructions in a defined manner. The host also may include an input output I O device e.g. video and audio input and conversion capability and peripheral equipment such as a communications card or device e.g. a modem or a network adapter for exchanging data with the network .

The host is generally capable of executing instructions under the command of a controller. The host may be used to provide content to the client . The controller may be implemented by a software application loaded on the host for commanding and directing communications exchanged with the client . Other examples of the controller include a program a piece of code an instruction a device a computer a computer system or a combination thereof for independently or collectively instructing the client or the host to interact and operate as described. The host may be embodied permanently or temporarily in any type of machine component physical or virtual equipment storage medium or propagated signal capable of providing instructions to the client or the host .

In system A the client is configured to access a user profile data store where a user profile associated with a user is stored. The client in system A may determine content that is significant to a user update the user profile based on the significant content and communicate to the host information related to the updated user profile and a user request for content e.g. a search request . The host may determine content that is responsive to the request and the updated user profile information e.g. search results . In some implementations the entire updated user profile may be provided to host by client . Alternatively only a portion of the updated user profile that client has determined to be relevant to the request for content may be provided to host .

Alternatively in system B the host rather than the client is configured to access a user profile data store where user profiles are stored. The host may receive content and an indication of a user identity associated with the content from the client . The host may determine a portion of the content that is significant and update a user profile associated with the user based on the significant content. As such at a later time when a request for content is received by the client from the user the client may send the user request and an indication of the user identity associated with the requesting user to the host and the host may access a user profile that has been previously updated associated with the user identity and determine content that is responsive to the request and the user profile information.

In process A the client optionally downloads and installs I Like This software. Operations and may not be performed for example in implementations where the I Like This software has already been downloaded from the Internet or uploaded from a disc or other media by client and installed.

The client receives an indication that an I Like This button was selected by a user . Operations may correspond to operation of .

The client determines and extracts content that was being viewed or accessed by the user at the time of selection of the I Like This button which corresponds to operation of . The extracted content is analyzed by the client to determine significant content within the extracted content which corresponds to operation of

The client receives a request from a user for content that can be informed by information included in a user profile associated with the user . The request may include for example a search query entry into a video inbox an update video inbox command a request for recommended content or advertisements or services that may be provided to the user in response to some other user action.

The client sends to the host or enables the host to access the request and some or all of the updated user profile information . If only a portion of the updated user profile information is sent to or accessed by the host the portion may be determined by the client based on the substance of the user request. For example if a user enters a search query related to the National Zoo the client may send to the host or enable the host to access all information included in the user profile associated with zoos animals or Washington D.C.

The host receives or accesses the request and the updated user profile information . The host determines content that satisfies the request and the updated user profile information . The information in the updated user profile may be used to influence the determination of content that satisfies the request or the presentation of the content that satisfies the request. For example the updated user profile may affect whether search results are provided to the user or how the search results that are provided to the user are ranked or grouped. Also related to a search query the updated user profile may be used to disambiguate a search query. For example the user may enter the search query Eagles. The search query may relate to the football team the bird or the band. A user profile associated with the user may include a large amount of music references and thus it may be determined that the search query most likely relates to the band rather than the football team or the bird. In this way search queries may be personalized for a user without requiring any additional steps to be taken by the user. In another example the updated user profile may be used to determine content to be included in a video inbox advertisements or services to be provided to a user or content that may be recommended to the user. The host sends to the client or enables the client to access the determined content such that the client receives the determined content and enables the user to perceive the content by for example visually displaying the content to the user . Operations may correspond to operation of .

In the implementation of user profiles are stored locally i.e. local to the client system and thus information related to content that a user finds significant and content that has been viewed or accessed by the user may be kept completely confidential. Only the user profile information that is necessary to help determine content that satisfies a user request need be transmitted over the network to the host . In addition even if all of the user profile information is sent to the host the user profile information may be sent anonymously so that if the information is intercepted by a third party the information cannot be associated with the user.

In process B the client optionally downloads and installs I Like This software similar to that described above with respect to process A of . The client receives an indication that an I Like This button was selected . The client determines a user identity for the user who selected the I Like This button . The user identity maybe for example a screen name with which the user logged into an online service provider or Internet service provider e.g. AOL an IP address or an email address. Operations may correspond to operation of .

The client determines and extracts content that was being viewed or accessed by the user at the time of selection of the I Like This button which corresponds to operation of .

The client sends to the host or enables the host to access the user identity and the extracted content . The host receives or accesses the user identity and the extracted content . The host analyzes the extracted content to determine the significant content . Alternatively the client may perform operation . Operations may correspond to operation of .

The host accesses a user profile associated with the user identity and is stored on the host as shown in . The host updates the user profile with the significant content . Operations may correspond to operation of .

The client receives a request from a user for content that can be informed by information included in a user profile associated with the user . The client determines a user identity associated with the user who requested the information and sends to the host or enables the host to access the request for content and the user identity . The host receives or accesses the request and user identity from the client . The host accesses a user profile associated with the user identity and that is stored on the host . The user profile may have previously been updated based on content the user found to be significant. The host determines content that satisfies the request and the updated user profile and provides the determined content to the client . The client receives or accesses the determined content and enables the user to perceive the content by for example visually displaying the content to the user . Operations may correspond to operation of .

In the implementation of user profiles may be stored on the host e.g. the user profiles may be hosted in order to put less of a storage burden on the client and decrease the likelihood of distortion or corruption of the user profile or the information stored therein. Hosting a user profile also allows for portability of the information such that information in the user profile may be used to inform a request for content independently of the location from where the user requests the content. Security and privacy concerns may be dealt with in the configuration of by requiring authentication by a user before a user profile associated with the user may be used to inform a request for content. Furthermore an encrypted version of an identifier related to the user identity may be provided to the host such that any information in a user profile stored on the host cannot be traced back to a particular user.

Upon determination of the content to which the user was most likely referring upon selection of the I Like This button as described above the client determines a type for the content . A type may include hypertext markup language HTML text audio video email instant message spreadsheet or some combination thereof.

Based on the content type the viewed or accessed content may be cleaned up . Cleaning up the viewed or accessed content may include removing information metadata and formatting that is extraneous to text that includes content actually viewed or accessed by the user. For example tags and advertisements present around text in an HTML document e.g. web page may be removed. In another example where the content is audio or video cleaning up may includes performing speech to text optical character recognition visual pattern recognition image analysis and metadata inspection techniques to determine the content actually viewed or accessed by the user.

The client extracts significant content from the cleaned up content in a manner corresponding to that of process of described previously . More particularly the client may perform process to determine and extract significant content from the cleaned up content rather than from the raw content identified prior to operations .

The client determines keywords a URL a category or other indicia that is associated with the determined significant content as described above. The client then adds the keywords URL category or other indicia to a user profile associated with the user who selected the I Like This button . As described above the updated user profile may be used to personalize the online experience of the user associated with the updated user profile by for example providing the user with personalized search results updating a video or audio inbox associated with the user targeting advertisements to the user or recommending content to the user.

Although this document focuses on determining significant content that is of interest to a user as determined by selection of an I Like This button other implementations may additionally or alternatively provide an I Hate This button for a user to indicate that particular content is not of interest to the user. The content that is not of interest may be analyzed in the manner described above and future content provided to the user e.g. search results or updates to a video inbox associated with the user may not include content related to content associated with selection of the I Hate This button.

The described systems methods and techniques may be implemented in digital electronic circuitry computer hardware firmware software or in combinations of these elements. Apparatus embodying these techniques may include appropriate input and output devices a computer processor and a computer program product tangibly embodied in a machine readable storage device for execution by a programmable processor. A process embodying these techniques may be performed by a programmable processor executing a program of instructions to perform desired functions by operating on input data and generating appropriate output. The techniques may be implemented in one or more computer programs that are executable on a programmable system including at least one programmable processor coupled to receive data and instructions from and to transmit data and instructions to a data storage system at least one input device and at least one output device. Each computer program may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language or in assembly or machine language if desired and in any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language. Suitable processors include by way of example both general and special purpose microprocessors. Generally a processor will receive instructions and data from a read only memory and or a random access memory. Storage devices suitable for tangibly embodying computer program instructions and data include all forms of non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices such as Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EPROM Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and Compact Disc Read Only Memory CD ROM . Any of the foregoing may be supplemented by or incorporated in specially designed ASICs application specific integrated circuits .

