---

title: Generating connection recommendations on a social network using social contacts
abstract: A method for generating connection recommendations for a social network from social contacts is disclosed. The method includes identifying a first user of a content sharing platform, selecting a second user of the content sharing platform based on an affinity score between the first user and the second user, wherein the first user and the second user are not connected on the content sharing platform, contacting the second user to request a list of recommended subscriptions on the content sharing platform for the first user, receiving, from the second user, the list of recommended subscriptions for the first user, and providing, to the first user, at least a portion of the list of recommended subscriptions as suggestions for subscriptions on the content sharing platform for the first user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09641574&OS=09641574&RS=09641574
owner: Google Inc.
number: 09641574
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130607
---
This disclosure relates to the field of multimedia content and in particular to generating connection recommendations on a social network using social contacts.

On the Internet social networks such as content sharing platforms or other services allow users to upload view and share digital content. The digital content may include media items such as audio clips movie clips TV clips and music videos as well as amateur content such as video blogging short original videos pictures photos other multimedia content etc. Users may use computing devices such as smart phones cellular phones laptop computers desktop computers netbooks tablet computers to use play and or consume media items e.g. watch digital videos and or listen to digital music .

The content sharing platforms can include one or more channels or one or more channels can be viewable over the Internet. A channel is a mechanism for providing certain media items and or for providing access to media items to subscribers. Media items for the channel can be selected by a user uploaded by a user selected by a content provider or selected by a broadcaster. Users can subscribe to one or more channels. Upon subscribing the user can view his or her subscriptions on a user interface by selecting a Subscriptions link button. With many channels associated with content sharing platforms or viewable over the Internet it may be difficult for a new user to the content sharing platform to find new media items to consume to find new channels to subscribe to and or to decide which channels to subscribe to.

The following is a simplified summary of the disclosure in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects of the disclosure. This summary is not an extensive overview of the disclosure. It is intended to neither identify key or critical elements of the disclosure nor delineate any scope of the particular implementations of the disclosure or any scope of the claims. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts of the disclosure in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

In one implementation a method for generating connection recommendations for a social network from social contacts is disclosed. The method includes identifying a first user of a content sharing platform selecting a second user of the content sharing platform based on an affinity score between the first user and the second user wherein the first user and the second user are not connected on the content sharing platform contacting the second user to request a list of recommended subscriptions on the content sharing platform for the first user receiving from the second user the list of recommended subscriptions for the first user and providing to the first user at least a portion of the list of recommended subscriptions as suggestions for subscriptions on the content sharing platform for the first user.

The method described above may also include the identifying the first user further comprising determining that a number of subscriptions of the first user on the content sharing platform is less than a subscription threshold. In addition the affinity score is based on a number of connections made between the first user and the second user using at least one of a social connection network external to the content sharing platform electronic mail communications telephone communications SMS communications and MMS communications. Furthermore the affinity score is further based on a frequency of the number of connections made between the first user and the second user.

In another implementation a subscription comprises a channel of the content sharing platform. The method may further include receiving from the first user a selection of a subscription from the list of recommended subscriptions. In addition contacting the second user may further comprise sending the second user a pre populated list of subscriptions comprising subscriptions associated with the second user. Furthermore the affinity score between the first user and the second user exceeds an affinity score threshold. Similarly in one implementation the affinity score between the first user and the second user comprises a top predetermined number of affinity scores for the first user.

In additional implementations computing devices for performing the operations of the above described implementations are also disclosed. Additionally in implementations of the disclosure a computer readable storage media stores methods for performing the operations of the above described implementations.

Implementations are described for generating connection recommendations on a social network using social contacts. Implementations of the disclosure pertain to subscribing users to channels on a social network. A channel can be data content available from a common source or data content having a common topic or theme. The data content can be digital content chosen by a user digital content made available by a user digital content uploaded by a user digital content chosen by a content provider digital content chosen by a broadcaster etc. For example a channel X can include videos Y and Z. A channel can be associated with an owner who is a user that can perform actions on the channel. Different activities can be associated with the channel based on the owner s actions such as the owner making digital content available on the channel the owner selecting e.g. liking digital content associated with another channel the owner commenting on digital content associated with another channel etc. The activities associated with the channel can be collected into an activity feed for the channel e.g. a list of actions such as adding a new media item associated with each channel . An activity feed is a list of recent activity associated with the user and occurring on the social network.

Users other than the owner of the channel can subscribe to one or more channels in which they are interested. Because of the large number of media items and channels that are currently available on the Internet e.g. the Web and or other networks users may often have difficulty finding new media items to consume. Implementations of the disclosure may identify one or more recommended channels for a user based on recommendations made by social contacts of the user where the user is not connected to the social contacts on the social network. The social network may determine a level of interaction between a first user and other users of the social network to which the first user is not connected by analyzing interactions between the users on for example another social network an email platform and or a mobile platform. The social network may contact the identified other users that have a high level of interaction to the first user and request channel recommendations for the first user from those other users. When channel recommendations are received from the other users the social network may then provide those recommendations as suggestions to the first user and subscribe the first user to any of those channels that the first user selects.

Previously social networks relied on existing connections between users to obtain channel recommendations for a user. Implementations of the disclosure allow a social network to identify other social interactions of a first user outside of the social network and to identify other users of the social network to which the first user is not connected in order to obtain subscription recommendations for the first user with respect to the social network. This can create high quality recommendations for users of the social network where they otherwise would not be available.

The client devices A through Z may each include computing devices such as personal computers PCs laptops mobile phones smart phones tablet computers netbook computers etc. Each client device includes a media viewer . In one implementation the media viewers may be applications that allow users to view content such as images videos web pages documents etc. For example the media viewer may be a web browser that can access retrieve present and or navigate content e.g. web pages such as Hyper Text Markup Language HTML pages digital media items etc. served by a web server. The media viewer may render display and or present the content e.g. a web page a media viewer to a user. The media viewer may also display an embedded media player e.g. a Flash player or an HTML5 player that is embedded in a web page e.g. a web page that may provide information about a product sold by an online merchant . In another example the media viewer may be a standalone application that allows users to view digital media items e.g. digital videos digital images electronic books etc. .

The media viewers may be provided to the client devices A through Z by the server and or content sharing platform . For example the media viewers may be embedded media players that are embedded in web pages provided by the content sharing platform . In another example the media viewers may be applications that are downloaded from the server .

In general functions described in one implementation as being performed by the content sharing platform can also be performed on the client devices A through Z in other implementations if appropriate. In addition the functionality attributed to a particular component can be performed by different or multiple components operating together. The content sharing platform can also be accessed as a service provided to other systems or devices through appropriate application programming interfaces and thus is not limited to use in websites.

In one implementation the content sharing platform may be one or more computing devices such as a rackmount server a router computer a server computer a personal computer a mainframe computer a laptop computer a tablet computer a desktop computer etc. data stores e.g. hard disks memories databases networks software components and or hardware components that may be used to provide a user with access to media items and or provide the media items to the user. For example the content sharing platform may allow a user to consumer upload search for approve of like dislike and or comment on media items. The content sharing platform may also include a website e.g. a webpage that may be used to provide a user with access to the media items.

The content sharing platform may include multiple channels e.g. channels A through Z . A channel can be data content available from a common source or data content having a common topic or theme. The data content can be digital content chosen by a user digital content made available by a user digital content uploaded by a user digital content chosen by a content provider digital content chosen by a broadcaster etc. For example a channel X can include videos Y and Z. A channel can be associated with an owner who is a user that can perform actions on the channel. Different activities can be associated with the channel based on the owner s actions such as the owner making digital content available on the channel the owner selecting e.g. liking digital content associated with another channel the owner commenting on digital content associated with another channel etc. The activities associated with the channel can be collected into an activity feed for the channel. Users other than the owner of the channel can subscribe to one or more channels in which they are interested. Once a user subscribes to a channel the user can be presented with information from the channel s activity feed. If a user subscribes to multiple channels the activity feed for each channel to which the user is subscribed can be combined into a syndicated activity feed. Information from the syndicated activity feed can be presented to the user.

Each channel may include one or more media items . Examples of a media item can include and are not limited to digital video digital movies digital photos digital music website content social media updates electronic books ebooks electronic magazines digital newspapers digital audio books electronic journals web blogs real simple syndication RSS feeds electronic comic books software applications etc.

A media item may be consumed via the Internet and or via a mobile device application. For brevity and simplicity an online video also hereinafter referred to as a video is used as an example of a media item throughout this document. As used herein media media item online media item digital media and a digital media item can include an electronic file that can be executed or loaded using software firmware or hardware configured to present the digital media item to an entity. In one implementation the content sharing platform may store the media items using the data store .

Social connection platform may be one or more computing devices e.g. servers data stores networks software components and or hardware components that may be used to allow users to connect to share information and or interact with each other. A social connection platform may present to a user a listing e.g. activity feed feed stream wall etc. of objects such as posts content items e.g. video images audio etc. status updates favorability indications tags messages and so on generated by other users of the social network. The social connection platform may also include a content sharing aspect that allow users to upload view tag and share content such as text content video content image content audio content and so on. Other users of the social connection platform may comment on the shared content discover new content locate updates share content and otherwise interact with the provided content.

In one implementation the content sharing platform may be integrated with the social connection platform . For example the social connection platform may use the content sharing platform to allow users to upload and or share content. In another implementation the social connection platform may be separate from the content sharing platform . In one implementation the social connection platform may also include chat functionality e.g. a chat platform to allow users to chat with e.g. to instant message each other.

In one implementation email platform may be one or more computing devices e.g. servers data stores networks software components and or hardware components that may be used to allow users to send and or receive electronic mail emails to each other. For example a first user may use the email platform to send an email to a second user regarding the time and location of a particular event. The first user may also attached files e.g. video files image files text files etc. to the email. In one implementation the email platform may also include chat functionality e.g. a chat platform to allow users to chat with e.g. to instant message each other.

In another implementation the mobile platform may be one or more computing devices e.g. servers data stores networks software components and or hardware components that are used to allow users to connect to share information and or interact with each other using one or more mobile device smart phones tablet devices and other mobile communication devices that allow users to communicate over a telecommunications network. For example the mobile platform may enable telephony communication Short Message Service SMS messaging Multimedia Message Service MMS messaging text chat and video chat between users.

In one implementation the server may be one or more computing devices e.g. a rackmount server a server computer etc. . In one implementation the server may be included in one or more of the content sharing platform the social connection platform the email platform and the mobile platform . In another implementation the server may be separate from the content sharing platform the social connection platform the email platform and the mobile platform but may communicate e.g. exchange data with the content sharing platform the social connection platform the email platform and the mobile platform .

In one implementation the server includes a channel subscription module . The channel subscription module may generate connection recommendations for a user on a social network using social contacts of the user. For example channel subscription module may generate subscription recommendations for a target user such as a new user of the content sharing platform using social connections of the target user where the target user is not connected to the social connections on the content sharing platform . This may allow the target user to more easily find new channels and or media items to consume e.g. to view upon joining the social network of the content sharing platform . In other implementations the target user may not be a new user in terms of time passed since joining the content sharing platform but may have a number of subscriptions that falls below a threshold subscription number value.

In one implementation the channel subscription module may identify channels for recommendation to the user by analyzing interactions between the user and other users of the content sharing platform to which the user is not connected e.g. subscribed on the content sharing platform . The channel subscription module may determine a level of interaction between the user and other users of the content sharing platform to which the user is not connected by analyzing interaction between the users on for example the social connection platform the email platform and the mobile platform . For example the channel subscription module may obtain e.g. may determine or calculate an affinity score between two users that are not connected on the content sharing platform . In one implementation an affinity score is an indication of a level of interaction between the two users outside of the content sharing platform e.g. on the social connection platform the email platform and the mobile platform .

For example an affinity score may be calculated by looking at explicit actions that users take e.g. clicking liking providing a positive feedback commenting tagging e.g. assigning an identifier to a piece of information sharing friending requesting to be a friend etc. on the social connection platform and factoring in the strength of the action how connected the user who took the action was to the target user e.g. how many mutual connections they share etc. and how long ago they took the action.

In addition other factors such as mode of communication frequency of communications and so on on the email platform and or the mobile platform may be taken into consideration for determining an affinity score. Note that an affinity score may be a one way score e.g. not reciprocal . In other words a first user s affinity score for a second user is not necessarily the same as the second user s affinity score for the first user. The affinity score may be any number text and or value that may be used to indicate the level of interaction between two users. For example the affinity score may be a numerical value from 0 to 1 e.g. 0.8 where a value of 0 indicates no connection between two users and a value of 1 indicates a very high level of interaction between two users. In another example the affinity score may be a numerical value from 1 to 10 or 1 to 100 where a higher number indicates a higher level of interaction between two users.

The channel subscription module may obtain affinity scores for a first user and multiple other users by analyzing interactions between a first user and the other users. The channel subscription module may identify one or more users with which the first user has higher affinity scores e.g. may identify which of the other users the first user interacts more with and may request recommendations for channel subscriptions for the first user from the one or more users. For example the channel subscription module may identify channels that belong to the one or more users. In another example the channel subscription module may identify channels that the one or more users are subscribed to and or have accessed. The channel subscription module may then request the one or more users to select one or more of the identified channels as recommended channel subscriptions for the first user. The one or more users may rely on their personal knowledge and connections with the first user to determine which channel subscriptions that the first user may be interested in and recommend these channels for the first user.

The channel subscription module may communicate with one or more of the content sharing platform the social connection platform the email platform and the mobile platform and may analyze the content of interactions between the user and other users. The content sharing platform may also store the analyzed information in one or more data stores e.g. hard disks memories databases etc. . In one implementation the channel subscription module may based on the analyzing contact one or more other users of the content sharing platform to which the first user is not connected in order to obtain channel subscription recommendations for the first user from the one or more other users.

In situations in which the systems discussed here collect personal information about users or may make use of personal information the users may be provided with an opportunity to control whether the channel subscription module collects user information e.g. information about a user s social network social actions or activities profession a user s preferences or a user s current location or to control whether and or how to receive content from the content server that may be more relevant to the user. In addition certain data may be treated in one or more ways before it is stored or used so that personally identifiable information is removed. For example a user s identity may be treated so that no personally identifiable information can be determined for the user or a user s geographic location may be generalized where location information is obtained such as to a city ZIP code or state level so that a particular location of a user cannot be determined. Thus the user may have control over how information is collected about the user and used by the channel subscription module .

For example the channel subscription module may analyze the details and subject matter of user interactions such as emails chat messages e.g. instant messages text messages SMS messages MMS messages telephone calls posts on walls of the social connection platform etc. The channel subscription module may identify users that are social contacts of a first user based on the characteristics of the user inactions. For example a first user and another user that is not connected to the first user on the content sharing platform may exchange emails on a frequent basis. The channel subscription module may then determine that the other user is a social contact of the first user e.g. based on an affinity score between the users exceeding a threshold value . The channel subscription module may use any combination of algorithms functions operations actions etc. to analyze user interactions and identify social contacts of a user. For example the channel subscription module may analyze interactions between the users on the social connection platform via emails of the email platform or via telephone calls text messages and so on of the mobile platform to name a few examples.

In one implementation the users identified as social contacts of the first user are not connected to the first user on the content sharing platform . For example the first user is not subscribed on the content sharing platform to the users identified as social contacts of the first user.

When the channel subscription module identifies one or more social contact users of a first user the channel subscription module then contacts the social contact users to request channel subscription recommendations for the first user. In one implementation the channel subscription module sends an email to the social contact user. In another implementation the channel subscription module may send a notification or alert to the social contact user via an application of the channel subscription module . The channel subscription module may provide a list of the social contact user s current subscriptions on the content sharing platform and allow the social contact user to select channels from this list that the social contact user believes the first user would be interested in.

When the social contact user has provided channel subscription recommendations for the first user the channel subscription module sends these recommendations to the first user as suggested channel subscription recommendations. In one implementation the channel subscription module sends an email to the first user listing the channel subscription recommendations. In another implementation the channel subscription module may send a notification or alert to the first user via an application of the channel subscription module listing the channel subscription recommendations. The channel subscription module may wait e.g. for a predetermined time interval until receiving all channel suggestions from social contact users and then combine all received suggestions into a single list for the first user. The first user may select one or more recommendations from the list which are then communicated to the channel subscription module . The channel subscription module may then subscribe the first user to the channels that the first user indicated they wished to be subscribed.

Although implementations of the disclosure are discussed in terms of content sharing platforms and subscriptions to channels of the content sharing platform implementations may also be generally applied to any type of social network providing connections between users. Implementations of the disclosure are not limited to content sharing platforms that provide channel subscriptions to users.

The channel subscription module is communicatively coupled to the data store . For example the channel subscription module may be coupled to the data store via a network e.g. via network as illustrated in . In another example the channel subscription module may be coupled directly to a server where the channel subscription module resides e.g. may be directly coupled to server . The data store may be a memory e.g. random access memory a cache a drive e.g. a hard drive a flash drive a database system or another type of component or device capable of storing data. The data store may also include multiple storage components e.g. multiple drives or multiple databases that may also span multiple computing devices e.g. multiple server computers . The data store includes interaction data user data and score data .

In one implementation the social interaction module may gather and maintain interaction data between users of a content sharing platform such as content sharing platform of . In one implementation the social identification module may communicate with different platforms e.g. a content sharing platform a social connection platform an email platform a mobile platform etc. and may collect account information personal information and or activity information pertaining to groups of users and may store the information in user data . Social interaction module may utilize the user data to generate interaction data . Interaction data may include data information and or records of interactions e.g. mode of communication frequency of communications etc. between users obtained from different platforms e.g. a social connection platform an email platform a chat platform a mobile platform etc. . For example the interaction data may include data such as emails posts chat messages telephone calls text messages interactions on other social connection platforms etc. between different users.

The affinity score module may obtain e.g. may determine or calculate an affinity score between two users that are not connected on the content sharing platform. In one implementation the interaction module may store the affinity scores in the score data of the data store . The affinity score module may determine the affinity score by taking into consideration the interaction data obtained and stored by social interaction module . For example the affinity score module may determine multiple individual affinity scores between two users with each individual affinity score associated with one type of mode of communication e.g. an individual affinity score of telephone calls an individual affinity score for text messages an individual affinity score for social connection platform interactions and so on . These multiple individual affinity scores between two users may then be combine to generate an overall affinity score between the two users with different weights or algorithms applied to the individual affinity scores based on an importance to be applied to the types of modes of communication. Other weights may also be applied to affinity scores based on factors such a frequency and duration of communications and content of the communications. In one implementation the affinity score module may store the obtained affinity scores in the score data of the data store .

In one implementation the channel identification module may communicate with users of the content sharing platform to obtain channel subscription recommendations for a target user of the content sharing platform. For example the channel identification module may identify other users with which a target user has an affinity score over a certain threshold or may identify the users with which the target user has the highest affinity scores e.g. the top ten affinity scores .

The channel identification module then obtains channel subscription recommendations for the target user by contacting each of the identified other users. For each identified other user the channel identification module may send an email or other notification or alert to the identified other users providing a list of channel subscriptions of the identified other user and requesting that the other user select one or more of those channel subscriptions that the identified user believes the target user may be interested. In one implementation an initial contact of the identified other user may inform the other user that the target user recently joined the content sharing platform or does not have many subscriptions and could use recommendations for channel subscriptions. The identified user may then be able to select a link or perform another action to be taken to a graphical user interface GUI of the content sharing platform that lists the channel subscriptions of the other user and allows the other user to select and submit those channels that the other users would like to recommend to the target user. In some implementations the identified other user may also be provided with an input mechanism to enter in a channel recommendation to which the identified other user is not subscribed to but believes the target user would be interested in.

The channel identification module may then provide channel recommendations to the target user based on the feedback received from the identified other users. In one implementation the channel identification module contacts the target user each time an identified other user provides channel recommendations in response to being contacted by the channel identification module . The channel identification module may send the target user an email or notification alert informing the target user that the other user has been identified as a social contact of the target user and has provided one or more channel subscription recommendations. The one or more channel subscription recommendations may be listed in the initial contact to the target user or may be presented in a GUI accessed from a link of the initial contact to the target user.

In another implementation the channel identification module may wait a predetermined time interval to receive feedback from all of the identified other users and after that time interval has elapsed combine all of the received channel recommendations into a single recommendation list for the target user. This single recommendation list may be provided in an initial contact of the target user or may be presented in a GUI accessed from a link of the initial contact to the target user.

In the recommendation list of channels provided to the target user the channel identification module may also include the channel s associated with e.g. created by owned by the recommending identified other user s .

The target user may then select one or more channels from the recommended channels presented to the target user. The channel subscription module may subscribe the target user to the one or more of the identified channels that the target user indicated he or she wished to subscribe. and described below depict example screenshots of GUIs provided to the identified other users and the target user to obtain and provide channel subscription recommendations for the target user.

In some implementations the functionality of the channel subscription module and data store described in may be performed wholly or in part on a client device.

Channel recommendation request GUI may include a plurality of channel suggestions for the social contact user to select from to recommend to the new user. As shown in GUI the new user is identified as John Doe . The content sharing platform may have previously determined that the social contact user is a social contact of John Doe outside of the content sharing platform per the description provided above with respect to . The content sharing platform may then provide or present channel recommendation request GUI to the social contact user to request channel subscription recommendations for the new user.

Channel recommendation request GUI may include a plurality of channel suggestions . In one implementation the channel suggestions are existing subscriptions and or based on existing subscriptions of the social contact user. The social contact user may be prompted by pop up window to select one or more of the channel subscription suggestions . The social contact user may select an add button to select individual suggestions or may select all of the suggestions using add all button . The social contact user may also search for channels using menu . In some implementations the social contact user may be provided with options to perform free text searching for a channel or may be provided with other categories e.g. channels that have subscribed to the social contact user channels associated with email contacts of the social contact user channels associated with contacts from another social network of the social contact user and other groupings .

The social contact user may then submit their selected channel subscription recommendations by selecting the next button in pop up window . Other GUIs and GUI arrangements to obtain channel subscription recommendations from a social contact user may be possible in implementations of the disclosure and implementations are not limited to the GUI depicted in .

Channel recommendation GUI may include an indication of another user e.g. a social contact of the content sharing platform from which the channel recommendations of the channel recommendation GUI are obtained. The channel recommendations may include a title of the channel a thumbnail image obtained from the channel and other descriptive information. In addition a radio button may be provided with each channel recommendation . In some implementations other selection mechanisms to select a channel recommendation may be used.

After a user has selected one or more of the channel recommendations a subscribe button may be selected to submit the channels that the user wishes to subscribe to. If the user does not wish to make a selection of a channel recommendation a cancel button may be selected by the user. In one implementation as a default presentation the channel recommendations are all selected for the user s convenience. The user may select a deselect all button to remove the channel recommendation selections and select the individual channels that the user prefers to subscribe to. Other GUIs and GUI arrangements to provide channel subscription recommendations to a user may be possible in implementations of the disclosure and implementations are not limited to the GUI depicted in .

For simplicity of explanation the methods of this disclosure are depicted and described as a series of acts. However acts in accordance with this disclosure can occur in various orders and or concurrently and with other acts not presented and described herein. Furthermore not all illustrated acts may be required to implement the methods in accordance with the disclosed subject matter. In addition those skilled in the art will understand and appreciate that the methods could alternatively be represented as a series of interrelated states via a state diagram or events. Additionally it should be appreciated that the methods disclosed in this specification are capable of being stored on an article of manufacture to facilitate transporting and transferring such methods to computing devices. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device or storage media. In one implementation method may be performed by channel subscription module as shown in .

Referring to at block method begins at block where a first user of a content sharing platform is identified. In one implementation the first user is a new user to the content sharing platform and does not have any channel subscriptions on the content sharing platform. In another implementation the first user is a user having a number of subscriptions less than a threshold number of subscriptions. At block social contacts of the first user are identified where the social contacts are also users of the content sharing platform and are not connected to the first user on the content sharing platform. In one implementation the first user not being connected to the social contact denotes that the first user is not subscribed to channels of the social contacts on the content sharing platform.

At block an affinity score between the first user and each of the identified social contacts is determined. Because the first user and the identified social contacts are not connected on the content sharing platform the affinity score may be based on interactions between the first user and each of the social contacts that occurred externally to the content sharing platform. For example the interactions may have occurred on another social connection platform on an email platform or on a mobile platform. The affinity score is an indication of a level of interaction between the two users outside of the content sharing platform.

At block one or more of the identified social contacts are selected based on the determined affinity score. For example the top X social contacts with the highest affinity scores are selected where X is a predetermined number configured by an administrator of the content sharing platform. In another example the social contacts with an affinity score above a threshold affinity score value configured by an administrator of the content sharing platform are selected.

Then at block each of the selected social contacts is contacted by the content sharing platform to request channel recommendations for the first user. In one implementation an email is sent to each selected social contact requesting the channel recommendations for the first user. In another implementation a notification or alert is provided to each selected social contact via an application of the content sharing platform. The content sharing platform may provide a list of the social contact s current subscriptions on the content sharing platform and allow the social contact to select channels from this list that the social contact believes the first user may be interested.

At block the first user is provided the channel recommendations received from the selected social contacts as suggestions for channel subscriptions for the first user. Then at block the first user is subscribed to one or more channels indicated by the first user from the provided channel subscription suggestions.

Referring to method begins at block where the channel subscription module determines that a user B is a social contact of a user A external to the content sharing platform. In one implementation user A is not connected to User B on the content sharing platform. Then at block user B is contacted to request channel recommendations for user A for the content sharing platform. At decision block it is determined whether user B indicates a willingness to provide the channel recommendations for user A. For example the channel subscription module may email or otherwise notify e.g. alert or application notification user B with a request to provide channel recommendations for user A because user A is new to the content sharing platform and because user B has been identified as a social contact of user A. User B may indicate his or her willingness to provide channel recommendations for user A by selecting a link in the email where user B is instructed to select the link as a next step to providing the recommendations for user A.

If user B does not indicate his or her willingness to provide channel recommendations at decision block then method ends. On the other hand if user B does indicate his or her willingness to provide the channel recommendations then method proceeds to block where a first GUI is provided to user B. In one implementation the first GUI is an applet or pop up window or other type of page that lists user B s current channel subscriptions on the content sharing platform. For example the first GUI is the same as channel recommendation request GUI described with respect to . At block an indication of selection by user B of one or more channels is recommended for user A is received via the first GUI.

Referring now to method proceeds to block where user A is contacted to inform him or her of the one or more channel recommended by user B. In one implementation the channel subscription module sends an email to user A informing user A that user B has been identified as a social contact of user A and has also provided channel recommendations that user B believes user A may like to subscribe. At decision block it is determined whether user A indicates a willingness to view the channel recommendations from user B. If not the method ends. On the other hand if user A does indicate a willingness to view user B s channel recommendations the method proceeds to block .

In one implementation the channel subscription module may email or otherwise notify e.g. alert or application notification user A with a request to view channel recommendations provided by user B for user A. User A may indicate his or her willingness to view channel recommendations from user B by selecting a link in the email that is described as taking user A to the channel recommendations provided by user B.

At block a second GUI is provided to user A that includes the one or more channel recommendations made by user B. In one implementation the second GUI is the same as channel recommendation GUI described with respect to . At block an indication of a selection made by user A of channels to subscribe to is received via the second GUI. Then at block the channel subscription module subscribes user A to the selected channels indicated at block .

The exemplary computer system includes a processing device processor a main memory e.g. read only memory ROM flash memory dynamic random access memory DRAM such as synchronous DRAM SDRAM or Rambus DRAM RDRAM etc. a static memory e.g. flash memory static random access memory SRAM etc. and a data storage device which communicate with each other via a bus .

Processor represents one or more general purpose processing devices such as a microprocessor central processing unit or the like. More particularly the processor may be a complex instruction set computing CISC microprocessor reduced instruction set computing RISC microprocessor very long instruction word VLIW microprocessor or a processor implementing other instruction sets or processors implementing a combination of instruction sets. The processor may also be one or more special purpose processing devices such as an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA a digital signal processor DSP network processor or the like. The processor is configured to execute instructions for performing the operations and steps discussed herein.

The computer system may further include a network interface device . The computer system also may include a video display unit e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD a cathode ray tube CRT or a touch screen an alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard a cursor control device e.g. a mouse and a signal generation device e.g. a speaker .

The data storage device may include a computer readable storage medium on which is stored one or more sets of instructions e.g. software embodying any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The instructions may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory and or within the processor during execution thereof by the computer system the main memory and the processor also constituting computer readable storage media. The instructions may further be transmitted or received over a network via the network interface device .

In one implementation the instructions include instructions for a channel subscription module which may correspond to channel subscription module of and or a software library containing methods that call a channel subscription module for generating connection recommendations for a social network from social contacts. While the computer readable storage medium is shown in an exemplary implementation to be a single medium the term computer readable storage medium should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more sets of instructions. The term computer readable storage medium shall also be taken to include any medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying a set of instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present disclosure. The term computer readable storage medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories optical media and magnetic media.

In the foregoing description numerous details are set forth. It will be apparent however to one of ordinary skill in the art having the benefit of this disclosure that the present disclosure may be practiced without these specific details. In some instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form rather than in detail in order to avoid obscuring the present disclosure.

Some portions of the detailed description have been presented in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on data bits within a computer memory. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are the means used by those skilled in the data processing arts to most effectively convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. An algorithm is here and generally conceived to be a self consistent sequence of steps leading to a desired result. The steps are those requiring physical manipulations of physical quantities. Usually though not necessarily these quantities take the form of electrical or magnetic signals capable of being stored transferred combined compared and otherwise manipulated. It has proven convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to these signals as bits values elements symbols characters terms numbers or the like.

It should be borne in mind however that all of these and similar terms are to be associated with the appropriate physical quantities and are merely convenient labels applied to these quantities. Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the following discussion it is appreciated that throughout the description discussions utilizing terms such as segmenting analyzing determining enabling identifying modifying or the like refer to the actions and processes of a computer system or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and transforms data represented as physical e.g. electronic quantities within the computer system s registers and memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the computer system memories or registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices.

The disclosure also relates to an apparatus for performing the operations herein. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purposes or it may include a general purpose computer selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored in the computer. Such a computer program may be stored in a computer readable storage medium such as but not limited to any type of disk including floppy disks optical disks CD ROMs and magnetic optical disks read only memories ROMs random access memories RAMs EPROMs EEPROMs magnetic or optical cards or any type of media suitable for storing electronic instructions.

The words example or exemplary are used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as example or exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather use of the words example or exemplary is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion. As used in this application the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X includes A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X includes A X includes B or X includes both A and B then X includes A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form. Moreover use of the term an implementation or one implementation or an implementation or one implementation throughout is not intended to mean the same implementation or implementation unless described as such.

Reference throughout this specification to one implementation or an implementation means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the implementation is included in at least one implementation. Thus the appearances of the phrase in one implementation or in an implementation in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same implementation. In addition the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or. 

It is to be understood that the above description is intended to be illustrative and not restrictive. Many other implementations will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reading and understanding the above description. The scope of the disclosure should therefore be determined with reference to the appended claims along with the full scope of equivalents to which such claims are entitled.

