---

title: Systems and methods for saving and restoring scenes in a multimedia system
abstract: Systems and methods for saving and restoring scenes in a multimedia system with minimal configuration are provided. The techniques of the present invention can allow the states of the components in the multimedia system to be captured in a scene. Once the scene has been saved, the scene can be restored at a later time. A remote control system for recommending scenes by comparing states of components in the current scene with states of components in saved scenes is also provided. The remote control system can also recommend scenes based on usage patterns. Moreover, the remote control system can allow users to designate one or more saved scenes as favorite scenes.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09288422&OS=09288422&RS=09288422
owner: Apple Inc.
number: 09288422
owner_city: Cupertino
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130730
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 202 796 entitled SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR SAVING AND RESTORING SCENES IN A MULTIMEDIA SYSTEM filed Sep. 2 2008 which is incorporated by reference in its entirety for all purposes herein.

This relates to portable electronic devices and more particularly to systems and methods for saving and restoring scenes in a multimedia system. As used herein a scene includes the states of one or more components in the multimedia system. States of components that can be captured in a scene can include for example the states of lights e.g. whether they are turned on or off and their brightness levels the states of speakers e.g. volume level and balance media that is playing on a media playback application metadata associated with the media that is playing or any other suitable states.

Remote controls such as dedicated remote controls for controlling devices in a multimedia system are known. Devices in the multimedia system can include consumer electronic devices such as televisions set top boxes stereo receivers and computers and appliances such as lights window shades and fireplaces. In addition universal remote controls have been designed to interact with a wide variety of devices so that a single universal remote control can be used to control more than one device. For example a universal remote control can control both a television and set top box. Most of these remote controls communicate with the devices using infrared IR signals.

However in order to configure a conventional remote control to work with multiple devices a user must first specify the devices that are in the user s multimedia system. For example the user may specify a TV a stereo receiver and a DVD player. Furthermore although conventional remote controls can save and restore different pre defined scenes e.g. watch TV watch DVD and play game a user has to spend time manually defining the scene e.g. by specifying which device inputs to use etc. .

Furthermore in most conventional remote controls a user must use a computer to define a scene. In some cases however a user may want to be able to define a scene without being restricted to using a computer. For example the user may be watching a horror movie and may adjust the lighting and sound of the scene accordingly. The user may want to save the states of the devices so that the scene can be restored when for example the user watches another honor movie a few days later. The user may want to do this save instantaneously without having to use a computer.

In addition these conventional remote controls may wait for a user to activate a certain scene instead of recommending scenes based on past activities of the user or external parameters e.g. genre of media that is playing time of the day and special occasions . For example a conventional remote control may not be able to detect that a user is viewing a honor movie and as a result suggest a saved scene that has been configured for horror movies.

In view of the foregoing it would be desirable to provide systems and methods that allow a user to save and restore scenes in a multimedia system with minimal configuration. It would also be desirable to provide suggestions of suitable recommended scenes based on states of devices in the scenes and usage patterns.

In accordance with the invention a portable electronic device and method of operation are provided in which the device can save and restore scenes in a multimedia system with minimal configuration. The portable electronic device can additionally provide suggestions of suitable recommended scenes to the user.

In some embodiments the portable electronic device can discover one or more components in a multimedia system that are ready to be controlled. For example servers on each component can broadcast one or more identifiers to the portable electronic device. In response to receiving the identifiers the portable electronic device can establish a communications link with the components.

In some embodiments after establishing communications with the components the portable electronic device can receive states from the components. States can include software and or hardware settings of the components such as for example the current volume setting the current playback speed of a media item or the current media that is playing. In response to receiving the states the portable electronic device can provide controls to a user. In response to the user controlling the state of a component using the controls the portable electronic device can transmit the remote control commands to the component.

In some embodiments the portable electronic device can allow the user to save a scene which can capture the states of components that are included in the scene. The user may customize a scene by selecting a subset of the available components in the multimedia system. For example the user may delete components from the scene add components to the scene or any combination thereof. The user may also assign a label to identify the scene. In some embodiments the portable electronic device can be configured to save updates to the scene. Updates can include for example changes in the states of one or more components since the scene was last saved.

In some embodiments the portable electronic device can allow the user to restore a saved scene. In response to the user selecting to restore a saved scene the portable electronic device can obtain the states of the components that were captured in the saved scene. The saved scene can then be restored when the portable electronic device transmits the states back to the components.

In some embodiments the portable electronic device can recommend scenes based on comparing the states of the components in the current scene with the states of the components in the saved scenes. For example if the portable electronic device determines that a user is watching a honor movie on TV1 the portable electronic device can attempt to find one or more saved scenes where TV1 is playing another honor movie.

In some embodiments the portable electronic device can keep track of usage patterns of the saved scenes e.g. the times and frequencies that the saved scenes are accessed by the user . In some embodiments the portable electronic device can recommend scenes based on usage patterns. For example the portable electronic device can determine that the current day of the week is Saturday and can search for a saved scene that has been accessed the most on Saturdays. As another example the portable electronic device can determine the time of day e.g. day parting and search for a saved scene that has been accessed the most around that time of day.

Therefore in accordance with the present invention there are provided systems and methods for allowing a user to save and restore scenes in a multimedia system with minimal configuration. These systems and methods can include a portable electronic device that can automatically capture states of components in the multimedia system.

There is also provided a remote control system for providing a user with recommended scenes based on states of components and usage patterns.

Display component is illustrated in as a display screen that may be integrated into portable electronic device . Display component does not have to be integrated into portable electronic device and may also be external to portable electronic device . For example display component may be a computer monitor television screen any other graphical user interface textual user interface or combination thereof. Display component may enable portable electronic device to play back the video portion of video content serve as part of the user interface display command menus or serve any other suitable display functions.

User input component is illustrated in as a click wheel. Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that user input component may also be any other type of user input component or device such as for example a mouse keyboard trackball slider bar one or more buttons portable electronic device pad dial or any combination thereof. User input component may also include a multi touch screen such as that described in Westerman et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 323 846 issued Nov. 27 2001 entitled Method and Apparatus for Integrating Manual Input which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety. User input component may emulate a rotary phone or a multi button portable electronic device pad which may be implemented on a touch screen or the combination of a click wheel or other user input device and a screen. A more detailed discussion of such a rotary phone interface may be found for example in McKillop et al. U.S. Published patent application No. 2007 0152983 published Jul. 5 2007 entitled Touch Pad with Symbols based on Mode which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

In some embodiments portable electronic device can be a portable computing device with remote control capabilities. For example device can be a media player with wireless communications capabilities e.g. MP3 player such as an iPod available from Apple Inc. of Cupertino Calif. a cellular telephone a personal e mail or messaging device e.g. a Blackberry or a Sidekick a game player a portable communication device pocket sized personal computers such as an iPAQ Pocket PC available by Hewlett Packard Inc. of Palo Alto Calif. personal digital assistants PDAs a laptop computer a remote ordering interface dedicated remote control devices global positioning system GPS devices or any other suitable personal device capable of communicating wirelessly with or without the aid of a wireless enabling accessory system . In some embodiments portable electronic device can be a portable device that combines multi media processing and telephone functionality in single integrated unit such as an iPhone available from Apple Inc. A more detailed discussion of a portable electronic device with remote control capabilities may be found for example in Cannistraro et al. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 955 385 filed Dec. 12 2007 entitled Handheld Electronic Devices with Bimodal Remote Control Functionality which is incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Portable electronic device can be battery operated and highly portable so as to allow a user to listen to music play games or videos record video or take pictures place and take telephone calls communicate with other people or devices control other devices and any combination thereof. In addition portable electronic device can be sized such that it fits relatively easily into a pocket or hand of the user. By being handheld portable electronic device is relatively small and easily handled and utilized by its user and thus may be taken practically anywhere the user travels.

Portable electronic devices can include processor memory user interface display input output circuitry communications circuitry and bus . In some embodiments portable electronic device can include more than one of each component or circuitry but for the sake of illustration only one of each is shown in . In addition persons skilled in the art will appreciate that the functionality of certain components and circuitry can be combined or omitted and that additional components and circuitry which are not shown in can be included in portable electronic device . Persons skilled in the art will also appreciate that all of the components can be integrated into portable electronic device or one or more of the components can be provided externally or remotely.

Processor can include for example circuitry that can be configured to perform any function. Processor can be used to run operating system applications media playback applications media editing applications any other applications or any combination thereof. Processor can drive display and can receive user inputs from user interface .

Memory can include one or more different types of memory or storage mediums which can be used for performing device functions. For example memory can include cache Flash one or more different types of memory used for temporarily storing data a hard drive tape drive optical drive permanent memory such as ROM read only memory semi permanent memory such as RAM random access memory any other suitable type of memory component or any combination thereof. Memory can be specifically dedicated to storing firmware. For example memory can be provided for storing firmware for device applications e.g. operating system user interface functions and processor functions . Memory can be used to store any suitable user specific or global information that can be used by portable electronic device . Memory can store for example media data e.g. music and video files application data e.g. for implementing functions on device preference information data e.g. media playback preferences lifestyle information data e.g. food preferences exercise information data e.g. information obtained by exercise monitoring equipment transaction information data e.g. information such as credit card information wireless connection information data e.g. information that may enable device to establish a wireless connection subscription information data e.g. information that keeps track of podcasts or television shows or other media a user subscribes to contact information data e.g. telephone numbers and e mail addresses calendar information data any other suitable data or any combination thereof. Memory can store programs or applications that can be run on processor can maintain files formatted to be read and edited by one or more of the applications and can store any additional files that may aid the operation of one or more applications e.g. files with metadata .

User interface can allow a user to interact with portable electronic device . For example the device for user interface may take a variety of forms such as at least one a button keyboard keypad dial a click wheel scrollwheel a touch screen or any combination thereof. User interface can also include an audio input device e.g. a microphone or a video input device e.g. a camera or a web cam for recording. A more detailed discussion of user interaction with a portable electronic device may be found for example in Cannistraro et al. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 955 382 filed Dec. 12 2007 entitled Handheld Electronic Devices with Remote Control Functionality and Gesture Recognition which is incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Display can accept and or generate signals for presenting media information textual and or graphic on a display screen such as those discussed above. For example display may include a coder decoder CODEC to convert digital media data into analog signals. Display also can include display driver circuitry and or circuitry for driving display drivers. The display signals can be generated by processor or display . The display signals can provide media information related to media data received from communications circuitry any other component of portable electronic device or any combination thereof. In some embodiments display like any other component discussed herein may be integrated with and or externally coupled to portable electronic device .

Input output circuitry can convert and encode decode if necessary data analog signals and other signals e.g. physical contact inputs physical movements analog audio signals etc. into digital data and vice versa. The digital data can be provided to and received from processor memory or any other component of portable electronic device . Although input output circuitry is illustrated in as a single component of portable electronic device a plurality of input output circuitry may be included in portable electronic device . Input output circuitry can be used to interface with any input or output component such as those discussed in connection with . For example portable electronic device can include specialized input circuitry associated with input devices such as for example proximity sensors accelerometers or ambient light detectors. Portable electronic device can also include specialized output circuitry associated with output devices such as for example one or more speakers.

Communications circuitry can permit portable electronic device to communicate with one or more servers components or other devices using any suitable communications protocol. For example communications circuitry can support Wi Fi e.g. a 802.11 protocol Ethernet protocols for other short range wireless communications links such as Bluetooth which is a trademark owned by Bluetooth Sig Inc. high frequency systems e.g. 900 MHz 2.4 GHz and 5.6 GHz communications systems TCP IP e.g. any of the protocols used in each of the TCP IP layers HTTP BitTorrent FTP RTP RTSP SSH cellular telephone communications protocols infrared any other communications protocol or any combination thereof. In some embodiments communications circuitry may include a wired or wireless network interface card NIC configured to connect to the Internet or any other public or private network. Communications circuitry can be used to initiate and conduct communications with other devices or media players or systems within a communications network. Communications networks will be discussed in more detail in connection with .

Bus can provide a data transfer path for transferring data to from or between processor memory user interface display input output circuitry and communications circuitry . Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that components do not have to be directly connected to each other via bus .

In some embodiments device can host media and computing applications. For example device can host e mail applications media applications e.g. applications that supply video music slideshows and photos media recording software web browsers media sharing applications programming guide applications software update applications game networks or any other suitable type of applications.

Device can include processor memory communications circuitry and bus . In some embodiments device can include more than one of each component or circuitry but for the sake of illustration only one of each is shown in . Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that the functionality of certain components and circuitry can be combined or omitted and that additional components and circuitry which are not shown in can be included in device . For example device can include a display e.g. computer monitors televisions projectors audio output devices e.g. audio amplifiers speakers and headphones user interface e.g. keyboards mice touch screens trackballs and or input output circuitry.

In some embodiments device can include processor which can include circuitry used to control the operation of device . For example processor can be implemented using microprocessors microcontrollers digital signal processors application specific integrated circuits and any other suitable integrated circuits.

Memory can include one or more different types of storage. For example memory can include hard disk drive storage nonvolatile memory e.g. flash memory or any other electrically programmable ROM volatile memory e.g. battery based static or dynamic RAM or any other suitable type of memory. In some embodiments processor and memory can be used to run software on device . For example suitable software can include remote control applications media playback applications operating system functions and presentation programs.

Communications circuitry can allow device to communicate with one or more external devices e.g. portable electronic device of using any suitable communications protocol. For example user input and data can be transferred between portable electronic device and device . Communications circuitry can support Wi Fi e.g. a 802.11 protocol Ethernet protocols for other short range wireless communications links such as Bluetooth which is a trademark owned by Bluetooth Sig Inc. high frequency systems e.g. 900 MHz 2.4 GHz and 5.6 GHz communications systems TCP IP e.g. any of the protocols used in each of the TCP IP layers HTTP BitTorrent FTP RTP RTSP SSH cellular telephone communications protocols infrared any other communications protocol or any combination thereof.

Bus can provide a data transfer path for transferring data to from or between processor memory and communications circuitry . Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that components do not have to be directly connected to each other via bus .

In some embodiments users may interact with a variety of different media types using the components in the multimedia system. For example multimedia system can be used by a user to view media. Multimedia system can be used to play compact disks video disks tapes and hard drive based or flash disk based media files. The songs videos and other content maybe presented to the user using speakers and display screens. As another example visual content such as a television program that is received from a cable provider can be displayed on a television. As yet another example audio content such as a song can be streamed from an on line source or can be played back from a local hard drive.

Multimedia system can include one or more components such as component component and component . Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that the components provided are merely illustrative and that any suitable components capable of communicating with the portable electronic device which are not shown in can be included in multimedia system .

Component can include any suitable type of media display device such as for example a cathode ray tube CRT television a high definition television plasma screen liquid crystal display LCD organic light emitting diode OLED display or any other suitable display device. In some embodiments component can include a television tuner. In some embodiments a user can control the state of component using a remote control. For example the user may use a remote control to change the current television channel on the television tuner or adjust the volume produced by speakers in component . In some embodiments component can send audio and video signals to component while simultaneously sending audio to component for playback over speakers .

Component can include any suitable type of audio video receiving device. In some embodiments component can be an audio video receiver that can switch among various video and audio inputs. Component can be used to amplify audio signals for playback over speakers . In some embodiments audio e.g. digital or analog audio from component and component can be transmitted to component for amplification.

Component can include a set top box. For example component can be a cable receiver computer based set top box network connected media playback equipment personal video recorder digital video recorder digital video disc DVD players or any other suitable set top box. In some embodiments component can receive television signals from a television provider on a television signal input line. In some embodiments a tuner in component can be used to tune to a desired television channel. A video and audio signal corresponding to this channel can be provided to components and . In some embodiments component can provide recorded content e.g. content that has been recorded on a hard drive and downloaded content e.g. video and audio files that have been downloaded from the Internet to components and .

In some embodiments components and can be connected via links . Links can provide communication for multimedia system using any suitable type of wired or wireless communication technology. For example component can receive audio signals from component and component via links . In some embodiments links can allow components in multimedia system to connect to a portable electronic device e.g. portable electronic device of even if those components do not have direct access to the portable electronic device. For example components in multimedia system with direct access can use links to form a bridge between the portable electronic device and the components without direct access. Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that the links between the components shown in are merely illustrative and that the components can be connected in any suitable manner.

Components and can include communications circuitry . Communications circuitry can be used to implement one or more communication protocols and can be the same as or similar to communications circuitry of . In some embodiments communications circuitry can be used to exchange data between components in multimedia system and the portable electronic device. A more detailed discussion of remote control communications protocol in a multimedia system may be found for example in Cannistraro et al. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 955 383 filed Dec. 12 2007 entitled Remote Control Protocol for Media Systems Controlled by Portable Devices which is incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Any suitable circuitry device system or combination of these e.g. a wireless communications infrastructure including communications towers and telecommunications servers operative to create a communications network can be used to create communications network . Communications network can be capable of providing wireless communications using any suitable short range or long range communications protocol. Communications network can support for example satellite technology television broadcast technology wireless universal serial bus technology Internet Ethernet Wi Fi e.g. an 802.11 protocol Bluetooth registered trademark high frequency systems e.g. 900 MHz 2.4 GHz and 5.6 GHz communication systems light based wireless systems sound based wireless systems other relatively localized wireless communication protocol or any combination thereof.

In some embodiments communications network can support protocols used by wireless and cellular phones and personal email devices e.g. a Blackberry . Such protocols can include for example G8M G8M plus EDGE CDMA quadband and other cellular protocols. As another example long range communications protocols can be used such as Wi Fi and protocols for placing or receiving calls using VOIP or LAN. Portable electronic device and component when located within communications network can wirelessly communicate over a local wireless communication link such as link .

Portable electronic device can be coupled with component over link . Link can be a wired link that is coupled to both portable electronic device and component .

The communications sent and received between portable electronic device and components and can include any suitable type of one way or two way communications. In some embodiments to control the operation of components and portable electronic device can transmit remote control signals to components and . In addition components and can broadcast data signals that can correspond to the states of the components to portable electronic device . Suitable states can include software and or hardware settings that can be controlled by portable electronic device such as for example the current volume setting and or the current playback speed of a media item.

In some embodiments states of components can include the locations of the components. For example lights and TV located in the living room can broadcast to portable electronic device that they are located in the living room. In some embodiments the components can determine their locations based on GPS signals. In response to receiving the location of each component portable electronic device can build an internal map of the components and store the internal map in memory e.g. memory of .

In some embodiments one or more servers on components and can broadcast the components identifiers and states to portable electronic device . For example components and can use servers and to broadcast media content to portable electronic device e.g. as downloaded files or streaming media . Servers and can use any suitable wired or wireless communications link such as links and to communicate with portable electronic device .

The states of components and can be broadcast at specified times. For example the states of components and can be broadcast whenever the states change. As another example the states of the components can be broadcast at preset time intervals.

In some embodiments portable electronic device can include remote client which can provide a communications interface between portable electronic device and components in the multimedia system e.g. components and . For example remote client can transmit remote control commands to the components. As another example remote client can allow servers and to communicate with a remote control application on portable electronic device . The remote control application can be implemented using software stored in memory e.g. memory of and can be executed by the processor e.g. processor of .

As discussed previously some components in the multimedia system e.g. devices can host one or more applications. For example component can include application and plug in .

In some embodiments plug in can provide application with remote control functionality. For example plug in can extract the state of application and can provide the state to server . The state of application can include both passive elements and active elements. Passive elements can include for example images e.g. album covers videos title names artist names album names or any other suitable passive elements. Active elements can include functions of an application that can be remotely controlled. For example active elements can include a volume setting a highlight region in a list of media items e.g. a list of media items that a media player application can access playback controls e.g. play pause rewind fast forward contrast settings equalizer settings and any other suitable active elements.

In some embodiments plug in can receive a remote control command from server and can perform the desired action for application . For example when a remote control command from portable electronic device indicates that the volume of a media playback operation in application should be raised plug in can adjust the volume accordingly. As another example when a remote control command indicates that a user has selected a media item for playback plug in can direct application to initiate media playback of the media item.

In some embodiments if a device hosts one or more applications that are operative to be controlled one or more servers e.g. server on the device can broadcast the availability of the applications to portable electronic device . For example server can broadcast that component hosts application which has plug in providing remote control functionality. In some embodiments remote client can respond to the broadcast information. For example remote client can request to activate the remote control functionality. As a result server can receive remote control commands from remote client and can forward the remote control commands to plug in . In addition the state of application can be broadcast to remote client at specified times e.g. when the state changes or at preset time intervals .

The portable electronic device can launch a remote control application in one or more ways. For example the portable electronic device can display an option for the remote control application in fact highlight region in is shown to be highlighting a remote control application . In response to receiving a user instruction to launch the remote control application e.g. in response to receiving a selection of the remote control application in options the portable electronic device can launch the remote control application. As another example the remote control application can be launched automatically when a user brings the portable electronic device into the proximity of a multimedia system.

In some embodiments servers on each device e.g. servers and of can broadcast one or more identifiers that are based on the internet protocol IP address of the device. In response to receiving the identifiers the portable electronic device can establish a communications link with the device. The portable electronic device can establish a communications link by for example opening a network socket based on a protocol such as transmission control protocol TCP user datagram protocol UPD or internet protocol IP .

Once the portable electronic device discovers the devices the portable electronic device can receive the states of the software and hardware running on the devices. As a result the states are device pushed to the portable electronic device. Indicators can specify the activity level of a device. For example a media device can be considered active if it is currently performing a media playback operation. As another example an appliance e.g. fireplace or lamp can be considered active if it is turned on. A user can select a listing by placing highlight region over the listing. In some embodiments in response to receiving a user selection of a listing the portable electronic device can display a graphic image based at least in part on the controls of a device.

As still yet another example display screen can include selectable arrows which can allow the user to navigate menu items on the device. Display screen can also include options which can provide the user with access to more detailed controls for the device e.g. a media guide menu and recorded programs .

Referring back to display screen can include options which can allow the user to access applications that are hosted on a particular device. In some embodiments the applications can be displayed in listings under the device that is hosting the applications and above the following device. In some embodiments the applications can be displayed on a different display screen. In response to the user selecting an option in options the portable electronic device can display the applications.

In some embodiments display screen can include indicators which can specify the activity level of an application. For example the MUSIC application can be considered active if it is playing a song. As another example the SOFTWARE FOR LIGHTS application can be considered active if it is currently controlling the lights in a room.

Referring back to display screen can include SAVE option which can provide the user with an indication that the states of components in the multimedia system can be saved. In some embodiments the user may select to save the states of components by pressing a button e.g. button of on the portable electronic device or selecting SAVE option .

In some embodiments in response to the user selecting to save the state the portable electronic device can automatically save the states of any suitable component in the scene. For example the portable electronic device can save the states of all components in the scene. As another example the portable electronic device can save the states of components in a particular location.

The portable electronic device can determine the locations of components in one or more ways. For example the portable electronic device can determine the locations based on the states broadcast from the components. As another example the portable electronic device can determine the locations based on the internal map of the components that is stored in memory e.g. memory of . As yet another example the portable electronic device can detect the strength of the signals broadcast from the components. The portable electronic device can then determine which components have the strongest signal strength and are therefore in the same location as the portable electronic device. After determining the components that are in a particular location the portable electronic device can automatically save the states of those components.

In some embodiments in response to the user selecting SAVE option or pressing a button the portable electronic device can provide the user with an option to save the states of a subset of the components e.g. devices and applications in the multimedia system.

The devices in listings can be organized and displayed based on one or more criteria obtained from any suitable source. For example the criteria can be obtained from information broadcast by servers on the devices e.g. while discovering the devices or from the states of the devices . As another example the criteria can be obtained from information that has been specified by the user. The user may for example specify that a particular device is located in the living room.

Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that any suitable criteria can be used to organize the devices. For example as shown in listings the devices are organized based on the category of each device. Suitable categories can include televisions sound devices computers electronics accessories gaming systems appliances miscellaneous devices or any other suitable categories. As another example the devices can be organized based on the devices names e.g. the devices can be displayed alphabetically . As yet another example the devices can be organized based on their locations.

In some embodiments the user may select to view devices organized based a different criteria. For example in response to the user selecting VIEW option the portable electronic device can display the devices based on their locations.

As discussed previously locations can be obtained from any suitable source. For example locations can be broadcast from the components e.g. locations can be included in the states of the components . As another example the user may specify the location of a component. As yet another example the portable electronic device can determine the locations based the strength of the signals broadcast from the components.

In some embodiments in response to the user selecting VIEW option the portable electronic device can return to displaying the devices based on their categories e.g. . In some embodiments if the user continuously selects one or more VIEW options e.g. VIEW options and the portable electronic device can alternate between displaying display screens and .

Referring back to display screen can include options associated with the devices in listings . In some embodiments the user may select a subset of the devices in listings to include in a particular scene. For example when a user selects an option in options the portable electronic device can animate the option to change its appearance e.g. a horizontal bar can be changed to a vertical bar . In some embodiments in response to the user selecting option DELETE option can be displayed. DELETE option can include for example text a graphic image or any combination thereof. In some embodiments in response to the user selecting option the portable electronic device can provide delete options for applications that are hosted on a device. The user may then select one or more applications to delete from the scene.

In some embodiments in response to the user selecting DELETE option for a device e.g. TV1 the portable electronic device can remove the device from the scene and display the devices that are still included in the scene.

In some embodiments display screen can include ADD DEVICE option which can provide the user with components that have not been included in the scene but can be controlled by the portable electronic device. For example the components may have previously been deleted from the scene or the components may have recently been added to the multimedia system. In response to the user selecting ADD DEVICE option the portable electronic device can display those components that have not been included in the scene.

Referring back to display screen can include text box which can allow the user to assign a label to the scene. In some embodiments the user may use the label to identify the scene. For example when the user selects text box the portable electronic device can display an alphanumeric keypad for the user to enter a label for the scene. The user may use the alphanumeric keypad to label the scene as STUDY MODE. The user may select to save the scene on the portable electronic device by selecting SAVE option or by pressing a button e.g. button of . In some embodiments SAVE option can be un selectable e.g. grayed out or invisible until the user enters a label for the scene. In response to the user selecting SAVE option the portable electronic device can save the components e.g. devices and applications and their current states in memory e.g. memory of . The portable electronic device can then provide a summary of the saved scene to the user.

In some embodiments display screen can include ALL DEVICES option which can allow the user to view all the devices in the multimedia system that can be controlled. In some embodiments in response to the user selecting ALL DEVICES option display screen can be displayed.

In some embodiments the user may save updates to the scene by selecting SAVE option . In response to the user selecting SAVE option the portable electronic device can save any changes to the states of the components since the scene was last saved. For example the user may have changed the volume setting on the speakers or the application that is running on the computer.

In some embodiments the user may change the components that are included in the scene by selecting EDIT option . In response to the user selecting EDIT option the portable electronic device can provide a display screen similar to display screen . The user may then select to delete components from the scene add other available components to the scene or any combination thereof.

In some embodiments the portable electronic device can allow the user to set up a scene in which the states of components change with time. For example for a DINNER scene the user may specify that the music gets softer as it gets later in the evening. As another example for a BABYSITTING scene the user may specify that the volume on the television decreases as it gets later in the evening. At a given time in the night the television can turn off.

In some embodiments the user may set up the scene so that the scene is automatically restored at a certain time of the day. A scene can be linked to an alarm on the portable electronic device or on any suitable component in the multimedia system. For example a WAKE UP scene can be set up to turn on the lights the media player and the coffee pot at 8 am.

XML file can include scene tag and corresponding close scene tag which can define the beginning and end of a scene. Label tag can define a label for the scene. For example label tag can be used by the portable electronic device to display onscreen text that identifies a scene as ROMANCE MOVIE NIGHT. 

Component tags and can be used to define the beginning and end of the saved state of component COMPONENT1 . Identifier tags and and ID can be used by the portable electronic device to associate other information e.g. information stored in memory of with the component. For example the portable electronic device can use ID to find one or more criteria for organizing components in a listing e.g. listings of . The portable electronic device can for example discover that COMPONENT1 is a television and is located in the living room. As another example the portable electronic device can use ID to find an interface template for displaying the controls of the component. The portable electronic device can for example use ID to determine if the controls can be displayed in a customized configuration or a generic configuration.

Screen elements tag and corresponding close screen elements tag can define the beginning and end of a screen elements section for component . A screen element can be passive e.g. an element that can provide information about the current state of the component or active e.g. an element that can display information and or can be controlled based on user input . Label tag can define a label for the component. For example the portable electronic device can use label tag to display on screen text that identifies a component as TVI. 

Slider tags and can define the beginning and end of slider element . Slider element can be a passive or active screen element and can represent a volume slider such as for example volume slider of . Label tag can specify a label for slider element . For example the portable electronic device can use label tag to display on screen text that identifies slider element as a volume control.

Min tag can define the lowest value for slider element . Similarly max tag can define the highest value for slider element . Current value tag can define the current value of slider element . In addition slider element can be displayed in various ways depending on the display capabilities of the portable electronic device.

Component tags and can be used to define the beginning and end of the saved state of component COMPONENT2 . Component can be another component e.g. A V receiver that is included in the scene.

In some embodiments the portable electronic device can keep track of usage patterns of the saved scenes e.g. the times and frequencies that the saved scenes are accessed by the user . This information can be stored in memory e.g. memory of . In some embodiments listings can be arranged based on the frequency of access e.g. the most frequently accessed scene appears first in listings . In some embodiments listings can be arranged based on when a scene was last accessed e.g. the last accessed scene appears first in listings .

Display screen can include EDIT option which can allow the user to edit listings . In some embodiments in response to the user selecting EDIT option the portable electronic device can allow the user to delete one or more saved scenes.

In some embodiments the portable electronic device can provide an option to the user to restore a saved scene. For example the user may select to restore a saved scene by placing highlight region over a listing in listings . In response to the user selecting to restore a scene the portable electronic device can inspect the preference file of the scene and can find the components that are listed in the preference file. The portable electronic device can then attempt to contact these components and verify whether the components are currently available. For example the portable electronic device can verify if the servers on the components are broadcasting identifiers.

If the portable electronic device discovers that a component is available the portable electronic device can obtain the saved state of the component from the preference file and transmit the saved state to the component e.g. via remote client of . In some embodiments a server on a device e.g. server or server of can receive the saved state and restore the state of the device. In some embodiments a plug in on the device e.g. plug in of can obtain the saved state from the server and restore the state of an application. If the portable electronic device discovers that a component is not available e.g. the component may have been removed from the multimedia system the portable electronic device can skip the component in the transmissions suggest alternatives to the user e.g. using an alternative set of speakers or lights or perform any other suitable operation.

If the portable electronic device determines that a component s current state is the same as the saved state the portable electronic device may not transmit the saved state to the component. As a result the restoring process can be faster and more efficient. After restoring the scene the portable electronic device can provide a summary of the restored scene.

If a particular component of the restored scene is not available the portable electronic device can display message alert that indicates that the component can not be contacted. For example if the portable electronic device is unable to establish communications with the fireplace a cannot be contacted message can be displayed. The user may close message alert by selecting OK option .

In some embodiments the portable electronic device can recommend alternative components to substitute for the component that is no longer available. For example the portable electronic device can recommend another state for an existing component in the scene. As another example the portable electronic device can recommend a new component that is not included in the scene. In addition the portable electronic device can recommend a state for the new component that closely matches the component that is no longer available.

In some embodiments display screen can include EDIT option which can allow the user to edit the restored scene. For example in response to the user selecting EDIT option the portable electronic device can allow the user to add other available components to the scene delete components from the scene or any combination thereof.

In some embodiments the user may add other available devices to listings by selecting ADD DEVICE option . In response to the user selecting ADD DEVICE option the portable electronic device can search for other devices that can be controlled but are not included in listings . The portable electronic device can present a display screen similar to display screen of . Using the options e.g. option of described above the user may add one or more devices to listings . The user may then select SAVE option to save the edited scene.

In some embodiments the portable electronic device can provide an option for the user to create a new scene from the restored scene. For example the user may assign a new label to the restored scene by entering a new label in text box . In response to the user selecting to create a new scene e.g. by selecting CREATE NEW SCENE option the portable electronic device can create a copy of the restored scene and associate the copied scene with the new label.

Referring back to display screen can include options for changing the saved scenes that are displayed. For example the portable electronic device can shade ALL option to indicate that all saved scenes are currently displayed in listings . In some embodiments in response to the user selecting RECOMMENDED option the portable electronic device can provide recommended scenes that are determined to be suitable based on one or more parameters.

In some embodiments the portable electronic device can search for metadata associated with the media that is playing on a component in the current scene. For example the user may currently be watching a movie on TV1. The portable electronic device can determine the genre of the movie e.g. horror movie and can search for one or more saved scenes in which TV1 is playing another movie from the same genre. As another example the portable electronic device can determine the artist of a song that is playing on a MUSIC application and can search for one or more saved scenes in which the MUSIC application is playing another song by the same artist. As yet another example the portable electronic device can determine that the user is watching an episode from a television show on TV2 and can search for a saved scene in which TV2 is playing another episode from the same television show.

In some embodiments the portable electronic device can determine that the user is watching an episode from a television show on TV1 and can search for a saved scene in which TV2 is playing an episode from the same television show. In response to finding a saved scene in which TV2 is playing the same television show the portable electronic device can identify the locations of TV1 and TV2 e.g. by using an internal map . For example the portable electronic device may find that TV1 is located in the bedroom and TV2 is located in the living room. When the user selects to restore the scene the portable electronic device can attempt to apply the states of devices in the scene to similar devices around TV1 . For example the television volume and lights in the bedroom can be adjusted to a similar state to the television volume and lights in the living room.

In some embodiments the user may select to restore a recommended scene in listings by placing highlight region over a listing. In response to the user selecting to restore a recommended scene the portable electronic device can restore the states of components from the recommended scene.

In some embodiments the portable electronic device can provide one or more options that allow the user to select to continue playing the current media or switch to playing media from the recommended scene. For example the portable electronic device can display YES option and NO option . In response to the user selecting YES option the portable electronic device can begin to play media from the recommended scene. In response to the user selecting NO option the portable electronic device can continue to play the current media so that the user s viewing experience is not disrupted.

Since the user may not want to be bothered while watching media the portable electronic device can display YES option and NO option at any suitable time. For example if the user is watching a television program the portable electronic device can wait for a commercial break before displaying the options e.g. the commercial break can be identified using media cues . As another example if the user is listening to music the portable electronic device can wait until there is a break in the music e.g. the time between songs before displaying the options. As yet another example the portable electronic device can immediately display the options after the user selects to restore a recommended scene. After displaying the options the portable electronic device can wait for a user selection. The user may not enter a selection if he prefers to continue watching the current media. Therefore if no user selection is received after a period of time the portable electronic device can remove the options from display screen and continue to play the current media. As still yet another example the user may set up the portable electronic device so that a recommended scene is automatically restored when the user selects the recommended scene. During setup the user may also specify whether to switch the current media to the media in the recommended scene.

As discussed previously the portable electronic device can keep track of usage patterns of the saved scenes. In some embodiments the portable electronic device can recommend scenes based on the usage patterns. For example the portable electronic device can determine that the current date is February 14th. Based on this information the portable electronic device can search for a saved scene that was saved and or restored on the same day for the past several years. As another example the portable electronic device can determine that the current day of the week is Saturday and can search for a saved scene that is accessed the most on Saturdays. As yet another example the portable electronic device can use day parting to recommend a saved scene. Any suitable way of diving the day can be used such as for example dividing the day into 8 am 10 am 10 am 4 pm 5 pm 6 pm and 6 pm 10 pm time slots. As a result if the portable electronic device determines that the current time is 9 am the portable electronic device can search for a saved scene that is accessed the most between 8 am and 10 am. Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that any suitable criteria and or combinations of criteria can be used to determine recommended scenes.

In some embodiments the user may access a listing of favorite scenes. shows a schematic view of an illustrative display screen for providing favorite scenes in accordance with one embodiment of the present invention. The user may access display screen using any suitable approach including for example selecting a FAVORITES option e. g. FAVORITES option of or FAVORITES option of .

Display screen can include listings of saved scenes that have been designated as favorite scenes. In some embodiments FAVORITES option can be shaded to indicate that listings include favorite scenes. In some embodiments the user may designate one or more saved scenes as favorite scenes. The user may for example select ADD option to add scenes to listings . In response to receiving a selection of ADD option the portable electronic device can display saved scenes that are not currently designated as favorite scenes. The user may select one or more of these saved scenes to add to listings . In some embodiments the user may select EDIT option to delete one or more scenes from listings . In some embodiments the portable electronic device can automatically add the most frequently restored scenes to listings .

In some embodiments the user may select a scene in listings by placing highlight region over a listing. In response to the user selecting a scene the portable electronic device can restore the scene.

At step the portable electronic device can receive user instructions. At step the portable electronic device can determine whether an instruction to access a component in the multimedia system has been received. For example the portable electronic device can determine whether the user has selected a component in listings or listings . As another example the portable electronic device can determine whether the user has selected an application in listings e.g. using option or listings e.g. using option . If at step the portable electronic device determines that an instruction to access a component has not been received process moves to step . If at step the portable electronic device instead determines that an instruction to access a component has been received process moves to step .

At step the portable electronic device can provide the selected component. For example the portable electronic device can provide display screen which can allow the user to adjust the state of a device. As another example the portable electronic device can provide display screen which can allow the user to access one or more applications running on a device. The user may access a particular application by placing highlight region over a listing in listings . After the user has finished adjusting the state of the component the user may select BACK option or BACK option to return to display screen . Process then moves to step .

At step the portable electronic device can determine whether an instruction to save the scene has been received. For example the portable electronic device can determine whether the user has selected SAVE option . If at step the portable electronic device determines that an instruction to save the scene has not been received process moves to step .

If at step the portable electronic device instead determines that an instruction to save the scene has been received process moves to step . At step the portable electronic device can save the scene. For example the portable electronic device can store the states of the components included in the scene in memory e.g. memory of . After saving the scene process moves to step .

At step the portable electronic device can determine whether an instruction to restore a scene has been received. For example the portable electronic device can determine whether the user has selected VIEW SAVED option . The user may then be taken to a display screen such as display screen . The user may then select to restore a scene by placing highlight region over a listing in listings . If at step the portable electronic device determines that an instruction to restore a scene has not been received process moves to step .

If at step the portable electronic device instead determines that an instruction to restore a scene has been received process moves to step . At step the portable electronic device can restore the scene. After restoring the scene process moves to step .

At step the portable electronic device can determine whether an instruction to exit has been received. For example the user may select to exit process by selecting button . If at step the portable electronic device determines that an instruction to exit has not been received process moves back to step discussed previously. If at step the portable electronic device instead determines that an instruction to exit has been received process ends at step .

Process starts at step . At step the portable electronic device can receive remote control commands for a component. For example remote control commands can be associated control options or options of . After the portable electronic device finishes receiving remote control commands process moves to step .

At step the portable electronic device can transmit the remote control commands to the component. For example a remote client e.g. remote client of on the portable electronic device can transmit the remote control commands to a server e.g. server or server of on the component. After the remote control commands are transmitted process moves to step .

At step the portable electronic device can receive new state from the component. For example a server e.g. server or server on a component can broadcast the new state to the portable electronic device. After receiving the new state process moves to step .

At step the portable electronic device can verify if the new state has been correctly adjusted based on the remote control commands. If at step the portable electronic device determines that the new state has not been correctly adjusted process moves back to step . At step the portable electronic device can re transmit the remote control commands to the component.

If at step the portable electronic device instead determines that the new state has been correctly adjusted process ends at step . Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that process can be repeated for all components in a scene.

Process starts at step . At step the portable electronic device can receive user instructions. At step the portable electronic device can determine whether an instruction to view components in an alternative organization has been received. For example portable electronic device can provide display screen to the user. Display screen can include listings and VIEW option . In some embodiments listings can include components that are organized based on their categories. In some embodiments in response to the user selecting VIEW option the portable electronic device can organize the components based on a different criteria. If at step the portable electronic device determines that an instruction to view the components in an alternative organization has not been received process moves to step . If at step the portable electronic device instead determines that an instruction to view the components in an alternative organization has been received process moves to step .

At step the portable electronic device can display the components in an alternative organization. For example the portable electronic device can provide display screen for components that are organized based on their locations. Process then moves to step .

At step the portable electronic device can determine whether an instruction to delete one or more components from the scene has been received. For example the portable electronic device can determine whether the user has selected to delete a component e.g. the user has selected option and DELETE option of . If at step the portable electronic device determines that an instruction to delete one or more components has not been received process moves to step . If at step the portable electronic device instead determines that an instruction to delete one or more components has been received process moves to step .

At step the portable electronic device can delete the one or more components selected by the user. For example in response to receiving an instruction to delete TV1 the portable electronic device can delete TV1 from listings . The portable electronic device can then provide display screen . Process then moves to step .

At step the portable electronic device can determine whether an instruction to add one or more components to the scene has been received. For example the portable electronic device can determine whether the user has selected to add a component e.g. the user has selected ADD DEVICE option of . If at step the portable electronic device determines that an instruction to add one or more components has not been received process moves to step . If at step the portable electronic device instead determines that an instruction to add one or more components has been received process moves to step .

At step the portable electronic device can add the components that were selected by the user. For example in response to the user selecting ADD DEVICE option the portable electronic device can provide display screen to the user. Display screen can include components in the multimedia system that can be controlled but are not included in the scene e.g. components that may have been previously deleted by the user or components that may have recently been added to the multimedia system . The user may select to add one or more components e.g. by selecting option and the portable electronic device can add the selected components to listings . After the user has finished adding components to the scene the user may select BACK option to return to display screen . Process then moves step .

At step the portable electronic device can determine whether an instruction to save a scene has been received. For example the portable electronic device can determine whether the user has selected to save a scene by selecting a SAVE option e.g. SAVE options and in .

If at step the portable electronic device determines that an instruction to save a scene has been received process moves to step . For example in response to the user selecting a SAVE option the portable electronic device can save the scene in a preference file that can be stored in memory e.g. memory of . In some embodiments the portable electronic device can assign a label to the scene. For example the user may enter a label in a text box e.g. text boxes and in . After saving the scene process ends at step .

If at step the portable electronic device instead determines that an instruction to save the scene has not been received process ends at step . For example the user may have selected a BACK option e.g. BACK options and in .

Process starts at step . At step the portable electronic device can receive user instructions. At step the portable electronic device can determine whether an instruction to display all saved scenes has been received. For example the portable electronic device can determine whether the user has selected an ALL option e.g. ALL options and in and respectively . If at step the portable electronic device determines that an instruction to display all saved scenes has not been received process moves to step . If at step the portable electronic device instead determines that an instruction to display all saved scenes has been received process moves to step .

At step the portable electronic device can display all saved scenes to the user. For example the portable electronic device can provide the user with display screen . Process then moves to step .

At step the portable electronic device can determine whether an instruction to display recommended scenes has been received. For example the portable electronic device can determine whether the user has selected a RECOMMENDED option e.g. RECOMMENDED options and in and respectively . If at step the portable electronic device determines that an instruction to display recommended scenes has not been received process moves to step . If at step the portable electronic device instead determines that an instruction to display recommended scenes has been received process moves to step .

At step the portable electronic device can display recommended scenes to the user. In some embodiments the portable electronic device can determine recommended scenes based on one or more parameters e.g. states of components and or usage patterns . In some embodiments the portable electronic device can provide the user with display screen . Process then moves to step .

At step the portable electronic device can determine whether an instruction to display favorite scenes has been received. For example the portable electronic device can determine whether the user has selected a FAVORITES option e.g. FAVORITES options and in and respectively . If at step the portable electronic device determines that an instruction to display favorite scenes has not been received process moves to step . If at step the portable electronic device instead determines that an instruction to display favorite scenes has been received process moves to step .

At step the portable electronic device can display favorite scenes to the user. In some embodiments the user may designate one or more saved scenes as favorite scenes. In some embodiments the portable electronic device can provide the user with display screen . Process then moves to step .

At step the portable electronic device can determine whether an instruction to edit saved scenes has been received. For example the portable electronic device can determine whether the user has selected EDIT option . If at step the portable electronic device determines that an instruction to edit saved scenes has not been received process moves to step . If at step the portable electronic device instead determines that an instruction to edit saved scenes has been received process moves to step .

At step the portable electronic device can allow the user to edit the saved scenes. For example the portable electronic device can allow the user to delete one or more saved scenes. Process then moves to step .

At step the portable electronic device can determine whether an instruction to restore a scene has been received. For example the portable electronic device can determine whether the user has selected a scene by placing highlight region over a listing in listings . If at step the portable electronic device determines that an instruction to restore a scene has not been received process ends at step . For example the user may have selected a BACK option e.g. BACK options and in and .

If at step the portable electronic device instead determines that an instruction to restore a scene has been received process moves to step .

At step the portable electronic device can locate components in the scene. For example the portable electronic device can inspect the preference file of the scene and find the components that are listed in the preference file. After locating the components process moves to step .

At step the portable electronic device can attempt to contact each of the components in the scene. For example the portable electronic device can verify if the servers on the components are broadcasting identifiers. After attempting to contact each of the components process moves to step .

At step the portable electronic device can transmit the states to the components. For example if a component is available the portable electronic device can obtain the saved state of the component from the preference file and transmit the saved state to the component e.g. via remote client of . After transmitting the states process moves to step .

At step the portable electronic device can provide a summary of the scene that has been restored. For example the portable electronic device can provide the user with display screen . In some embodiments the portable electronic device can display message alerts e.g. message alert for components that can not be contacted. Process ends at step .

Process starts at step . At step the portable electronic device can identify recommended scenes. In some embodiments the portable electronic device can search for recommended scenes based on states of components in the current scene. For example the portable electronic device can determine metadata e.g. genre associated with the media that is currently playing. The portable electronic device can then search for components in the saved scenes that are also playing media similar to the media that is currently playing e.g. same genre or episodes of the same television show . In some embodiments the portable electronic device can search for recommended scenes based on usage patterns. For example the portable electronic device can determine the current date and time e.g. day parting . Based on this information the portable electronic device can search for saved scenes that were accessed the most for that particular date or time or period of time . After the portable electronic devices has finished searching for recommended scenes process moves to step .

At step the portable electronic device can provide the recommended scenes to the user. For example the portable electronic device can provide the user with display screen . After providing the recommended scenes process moves to step .

At step the portable electronic device can determine whether an instruction to restore a recommended scene has been received. For example the user may select a recommended scene by placing highlight region over a listing in listings . If at step the portable electronic device determines that an instruction to restore a recommended scene has not been received process ends at step .

If at step the portable electronic device instead determines that an instruction to restore a recommended scene has been received process moves to step .

At step the portable electronic device can determine if media is playing in the current scene and in the recommended scene. If at step the portable electronic device determines that media is not playing in both scenes process moves to step .

At step the portable electronic device can restore the recommended scene. After restoring the recommended scene process ends at step .

If at step the portable electronic device instead determines that media is playing in both scenes process moves to step . At step the portable electronic device can restore most of the components states in the recommended scene except for the media.

At step the portable electronic device can provide options for switching the current media to media in the recommended scene. For example the portable electronic device can display YES option and NO option . In some embodiments the portable electronic device can wait for a break in the media e.g. commercial break or break between songs before providing the options. After providing the options process moves to step .

At step the portable electronic device can determine whether an instruction to switch the media has been received. For example the user may select YES option to switch to the media in the recommended scene and NO option to continue playing the current media. If at step the portable electronic device determines that an instruction to switch the media has not been received process ends at step .

If at step the portable electronic device instead determines that an instruction to switch the media has been received process moves to step . At step the portable electronic device can switch to the media in the recommended scene. After switching the media process ends at step .

Thus it is seen that systems and methods are provided for saving and restoring scenes in a multimedia system with minimal configuration. It is also seen that systems and methods are provided for providing suggestions of suitable recommended scenes based on states of components and usage patterns. Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that the invention can be practiced by other than the described embodiments which are presented for purposes of illustration and not of limitation and the present invention is limited only by the claims which follow.

