---

title: System and method for developing, deploying and implementing power system computer applications
abstract: A system and method for developing, deploying and implementing computer applications for a power system has an open software framework for developing mobile applications. The mobile applications are developed by combining predefined modules having functionality to monitor a power system, change configuration settings within devices installed on the power system and allow utility personnel to quickly respond to events occurring on the power system.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09021431&OS=09021431&RS=09021431
owner: ABB Inc.
number: 09021431
owner_city: Cary
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130107
---
The present application is directed to a framework for developing mobile applications for the power industry and mobile applications developed deployed and implemented using the framework.

Developers of computer applications for power systems are often tasked with creating programs to monitor the system and expedite the restoration of power in the event of a fault. The computer applications must also keep energy efficiency and conservation in mind. When coding new programs developers often find themselves creating the basic framework of the applications repeatedly for each new program.

The computer applications developed for utility companies that monitor power distribution network status are geared toward preventing fault events and quickly restoring power when fault events do occur in order to prevent interruption of service to power consumers. However even with the use of existing computer applications it is often difficult for power service technicians to pinpoint the exact location of the fault or equipment in need of service without traveling to or communicating with the utility s network control center NCC .

The NCC typically has several large screens showing real time single line diagrams of the network status. Single line diagrams show elements on the network such as source load and devices such as transformers circuit breakers switchgear re closers switches and sensors. In the event that devices on the distribution network require servicing or maintenance the NCC will generate a service ticket and dispatch the ticket to the appropriate utility personnel.

When utility personnel are performing maintenance in a location remote from the NCC utility personnel contact the NCC to determine whether the devices are offline energized or require maintenance. Additionally utility personnel call the control room to deactivate the devices prior to performing maintenance or activate the devices once the maintenance has been completed. Utility personnel are not alerted automatically or directly of the status or location of devices requiring service on the network.

Another difficulty that utility companies face is frequent replacement of equipment such as fault current indicators FCIs and other sensors on the grid in response to changing predicted or actual load profile values environmental conditions and neighboring devices on the electrical grid. To remedy the aforementioned problems existing equipment having un modifiable parameters is often replaced with new equipment that has the desired but also un modifiable parameters.

A framework for developing a computer application for monitoring an operational status of a power system has a set of modules combinable to build said computer application and is installed on a mobile device. Each of the modules has an associated functionality selected from at least one of the following functions security management profile management system configuration device level views event views data access background service mapping GIS data service and application programming interfaces each of the modules are combinable with another of the modules to develop the computer application for monitoring the operational status of the power system.

A computer application for effecting the operation of a sensor installed on a power distribution system accesses operational data of the sensor from a gateway server collecting and storing data for at least one substation. The operational data of the sensor is accessed using an identification number representing the sensor. The computer application is installed on a mobile device having bi directional communication with a gateway server and the computer application is capable of receiving configuration input to effect operational values of the sensor. The mobile device transmits received configuration input to the gateway server and the gateway server updates configuration of the sensor.

A computer application for monitoring the status of a device installed on a power distribution system is installed on a mobile device in bi directional communication with a gateway server. The mobile device requests data from the gateway server and the gateway server transmits the requested data to the computer application installed on the mobile device. The computer application prepares the data for presentation and the data presentation indicates the status of the power distribution system device being monitored.

With reference to a mobile device having a computer application installed thereon is depicted. The mobile device is embodied as an iPhone Smartphone tablet e reader digital camera cell phone laptop netbook personal digital assistant PDA iPod Touch or custom electronic device capable of carrying out the present invention. Alternatively the mobile device may be embodied as a navigation system or another computer system in a vehicle.

In the exemplary embodiment depicted in the mobile device is a smartphone having a mobile application or mobile app installed thereon. The mobile device has an operating system such as iOS Windows Android webOS Symbian or another operating system capable of carrying out the functionality of the computer application installed thereon. An open software framework is used to create deploy and implement the computer application and has modules that are written in C JAVA Objective C or another programming language supported by the operating system of the device .

The open software framework runs on a Windows operating system or another operating system capable of carrying out the invention. The open software framework is installed on a pc server laptop tablet or another machine that executes computer readable program code. The open software framework provides a user with the tools to build a computer application without having knowledge or experience in writing computer code. Additionally the open software framework provides reusable templates for creating applications so that developers don t have to focus on smaller issues that have already been solved by other developers.

The open software framework provides generic templates for the creation of new computer applications for a wide range of business purposes in the power industry. Users can develop the computer application by configuring the functionality desired within the open software framework enabling a pre built human machine interface HMI and providing the identity and location of the data source to the computer application or web service .

In one embodiment the open software framework allows for point click drag and drop of icons each icon representing a module software component or sub component used to build the computer application in conjunction with one or more other modules . The completed computer applications are downloaded from the internet web service or mobile application store such as Apple Inc. s App Store Android s Market or another application distribution platform to the device or otherwise transferred to the mobile device using a CD ROM memory card memory stick or another medium.

The open software framework is present on the both the client and server sides of the system architecture as depicted in . The client side includes but is not limited to the mobile device that executes the computer application built using the open software framework . The server side has a web service or portal that delivers modules of the open software framework that are accessible by client programs such as the computer application installed on the mobile device .

The system architecture for the open software framework is shown in . The mobile devices connect to a web service through the internet . The web service validates and authenticates the mobile device for further access to the gateway server in order to further retrieve data from local data acquisition servers LDAS in communication with the gateway server . There may be a firewall that restricts access to the LDAS and the web service respectively from outside intrusions.

The gateway server receives requests from the computer application retrieves data from online databases in the web service and sends the retrieved data back to the mobile device . The web server pushes alarm notifications to the mobile device when the retrieved data from the web service is outside of a predetermined threshold set by a user in configuration settings of one of the modules .

The modules delivered by the open software framework that can be combined to produce a mobile application include but are not limited to user management security management system configuration UI Flow Controllers Utilities and Search data access background service Map GIS and Data Service and API 38.

The user management module provides for the creation and maintenance of user profiles. User profiles include the name and location of the user the user s machine name and or IP address and preferences for the graphical user interface GUI of the application built from or running on the open software framework . User profiles may include role based security profiles. The roles may include sets of functionality or transactions a user is permitted to access once logged into the computer application .

The security management module controls user authentication user access levels and message transport encryptions. The user authentication portion of the security management module controls user access to the computer application built using the open software framework . The user access levels of the security management modules are role based sets of transactions that can be carried out by a user having a particular role or roles assigned to their profile.

The security management module allows for configuration of message and transport encryption for obfuscation of the communications between the local data acquisition servers LDAS gateway server and the web service as well as between the mobile devices and the web service . The gateway server is responsible for collecting data from LDAS located in multiple remote substations.

The LDAS are embodied as one or more servers located at the substation level that feed or otherwise provide data to a data repository on the gateway server. The LDAS establishes communication with the gateway server by registering with the gateway server. The LDAS is operable to discover the network of connected devices such as Intelligent Electronic Devices IEDs and FCIs.

The LDAS discovers the network of connected devices by broadcasting a Client Discovery Message to all client devices within a predetermined and configured internet protocol IP address range. Upon receiving the message the client device responds with a Client Description Message that includes a brief description of the client s services location and IP address.

Referring now to the gateway server is combined with the LDAS to provide an integrated gateway LDAS server . The integrated gateway LDAS server provides a flexible and scalable network topology. The LDAS may be embodied as a supervisory control and data acquisition SCADA system server. The SCADA system is often located remotely from the substation and provides supervisory control functions for a plurality of substations and or other components of the power distribution network.

At the request of a user of the mobile device having the computer application installed thereon the computer application requests and receives data from the LDAS SCADA or control severs through one or more gateways such as substation servers or wireless provider servers. The retrieved data is displayed on the user s mobile device in numerical graphical or various other display formats.

The system configuration module of the open software framework provides an interface for maintenance of system settings user preferences background service configuration and framework update and revision management. Updates to the open software framework are operable to be pushed to the mobile devices having computer applications utilizing the system configuration module of the open software framework .

The user interface UI and flow controller module provides a hierarchical view of the overall power distribution network or electrical grid hereinafter grid and a substation view for individual substations on the grid. The UI and flow controller module has abstract and specific device level views for accessing information about the intelligent electronic devices IEDs sensors and other equipment on the grid. In that same embodiment the logical sub system and detail views are available. Additionally a viewer for historical data charting and determining trends in the data is available in the UI and flow controller module .

The UI and flow controller module provides an event view of fault events sub optimal performance of a portion of the grid and a log view having time and date stamped records of the occurrence of the events or measurements taken from portions of the grid or equipment sensors located thereon. Further the UI and flow controller module provides a single line diagram generator and viewer. The single line diagram is a presented by a GUI that depicts process objects of the substation as graphical symbols. The single line diagram is updated through HMIs of substation systems such as SCADA and other control systems. The single line diagram may be updated by a user of the HMI or by another computer system in communication with the mobile application .

The UI and flow controller module has waveform capture functionality that charts electrical waveforms such as the magnitude of current or voltage over a predetermined time frame for the grid or a section of the grid. The UI and flow controller module allows the user to select data points of interest for further analysis. Additionally the UI and flow controller module has power system network discovery functionality that automatically detects IEDs sensors and other equipment on the grid through a connection with the gateway server and or LDAS .

The utility and search module provides data conversion and formatting when data from a data source such as an LDAS are not formatted properly for access retrieval or reporting by the computer application . Additionally the utility and search module formats data for storage in data structures of the computer application web service gateway server or LDAS .

The data access module provides web service and database access for administrators of the system as well as designated users of the computer application .

The background service module is used for data polling of the IEDs and other equipment on the grid and subsequent updating of the data accessible by the computer application from the LDAS . The background service module supports the creation and scheduling of batch jobs that retrieve and or update data on an ad hoc periodic or otherwise specified basis. In the case of data retrieval for reporting purposes the data is retrieved and stored in user specified arrangements for report generation on the mobile device from data structures stored on the gateway server . Data stored in data structures on the gateway server may also be accessible through a human machine interface HMI .

The Map GIS module provides hierarchical location details for substations IEDs sensors and other equipment on the power system network of interest. The Map functionality utilizes the well known global positioning system GPS and a GIS . The GIS portion of the Map GIS module correlates the substations and devices to other substations and devices on the grid in a spatial manner. The correlation between substations and equipment on the network provides information by way of non limiting example such as the distance between the equipment and substation of interest or the direction to proceed from the substation in order to locate the equipment of interest.

More particularly the Map GIS module conveys to a user that equipment such as a distribution transformer is located a specific number of degrees latitude longitude and direction in relation to an IED of interest for example. Further the Map GIS module determines the user s location if the mobile device is enabled to detect the user s location the location on the grid or the location of equipment of interest and provides driving directions from the user s location to the target location of interest. The target location may be a section of a power distribution line on the grid or a device of interest.

The API module provides a set of reusable application programming interfaces APIs that are accessible via the computer applications installed on the devices for retrieving data or performing control commands. The APIs provided by the API module are independent of a particular programming language.

Referring now to a high level class diagram describing the data models and structures for the clients such as the devices and servers is shown. The object structure organizes data in a hierarchy from the substation at a higher level down to the data element that is provided by request or on a scheduled basis to the computer application of the mobile device . The object structure provides a framework for the gateway server to arrange and convert the data retrieved from the LDAS into a format that the computer application can interpret.

The exemplary embodiment of a hierarchical class diagram shown in has the substation at the top of the hierarchy a second level server which is a particular LDAS embodied as a SCADA server control server or gateway with data acquisition server a third level channel a fourth level IED a fifth level logical device a sixth level logical node a seventh level data object and an eighth level item the item level being the lowest in the hierarchy. The item level provides the data requested by the computer application . It should be understood that other data structures and hierarchies utilizing header and item level data may be utilized to carry out the present invention.

Referring now to a detail class diagram comprised of computer code tags methods attributes and properties is shown. The detailed class diagram has a hierarchy starting with the substation level at the highest or header level and continuing down through the hierarchy described above to the list table views containing detailed data items . The item level data is provided as a data record or set of data records having item measurement values or status values along with updated time and date stamps and other related data item attributes as can be seen in . It should be understood that the example hierarchies presented in are presented by way of non limiting example and that other hierarchies for carrying out the invention are contemplated.

With reference now to another example of a detail class diagram for executing the computer code of the present invention is depicted. shows code for retrieving the nodes and servers of an exemplary substation or grid. and show code for retrieving the server definitions such as whether the servers are web gateway OPC SCADA or LDAS and data structures for data stored on the servers. and also depict the manner in which the servers are connected to other servers and where each server is in the hierarchy such as parent child relationships. shows parameters for results lists at the data item level.

With reference to a common list view screen of the substations on an exemplary grid is depicted. The status of the substation is shown in a color coded icon beside the substation name . A short description of the substation is presented below the substation name . It should be understood that sections of the grid being monitored as well as IEDs sensors and other equipment on the grid may be viewed in the same manner as the substations described above.

Referring now to a high level status of the grid being monitored is shown. The high level alarm view of the GUI shows the various states of all substations and equipment being monitored by the LDAS. There are four statuses alarm severe warning and normal. Alarm statuses are acknowledged by the user when a value of the grid or equipment being monitored is in the acceptable value range. A time and date stamp is also recorded after returning the equipment or grid to a normal status. The statuses may be arranged in a high level alarm view a stacked bar chart view or a map view depicting the color coded location and color coded legend indicating the severity of the operational status of the substations and equipment being monitored by the system. The map view has a function for providing driving directions to the location experiencing the status of interest.

Various options for viewing and grouping the status of objects being monitored on the grid are available such as by substation grouped by status a list of substations with status a list of servers with status a list of communication channels a list of physical devices sub devices or logical devices a list of sub functions or logical nodes a list of data object types a list of folders or other place holder s and a list of data items .

Referring now to data item views are shown. In screen exemplary data items such as control and measurement values are shown. In screen item values and status are depicted with a time and date stamp in addition to the threshold value threshold value is max value 102.73 in this example that if exceeded would change the status of the data item to a severe or alarm status. Screen shows a plot of data points of the characteristic or property such as amperage over time or cycles per second corresponding to the data item being monitored.

In sum the framework for developing a computer application for monitoring an operational status of a power system is made up of a set of modules combinable to build the computer application . Each of the modules has an associated functionality selected from at least one of the following functions security management profile management system configuration device level views event views data access background service mapping GIS data service and application programming interfaces . Further each of the modules is combinable with another of the modules to develop a wide range of computer applications for monitoring the operational status of the grid.

Exemplary computer applications developed using the open software framework are described below. The following computer applications are not to be construed as limiting the invention by their implementation details but rather are provided as non limiting embodiments of computer applications utilizing the open software framework of the present invention.

With reference now to a computer application developed for execution on a mobile device such as a smartphone is operable to monitor fault current indicators FCIs and other sensors installed on or near conductors of a grid to detect a fault event occurring in a section of the grid. The FCI measures current and voltage values and determines when those values deviate from nominal operating ranges. The FCI has an identification number which allows status tracking of the FCI by mobile devices and equipment on and remote from the grid. The computer application of the present invention accesses the configuration settings in the FCI by using the FCI identification number as a key.

The computer application detects faults and sub optimal performance of the grid FCIs sensors and other equipment on the grid. The computer application enables an encrypted bi directional data exchange between the mobile device and FCIs . The computer application receives updates on the health of the power system by connecting to microprocessors of the FCIs and other sensors that monitor the grid section of interest.

An example of an FCI that is used to carry out the present invention is catalog no. 1548FH ANC3 J N A available from Thomas Betts Corp. of Memphis Tenn. It should be understood that the FCI provided above is by way of non limiting example and that other FCIs and faulted circuit indicators may be utilized to carry out the present invention.

Referring now to a first embodiment of communications architecture for enabling communications between mobile devices and FCIs or other sensors installed on the grid is shown. Remote terminal units RTU and or relays receive data from and or poll the monitored FCIs and communicating the polling data to gateway and web servers that are further in communication with the mobile devices . The mobile device for receiving updates from the grid is embodied as a smartphone tablet pc or any other device capable of executing the computer application of the present invention and communicating with microprocessors of the sensors and other equipment installed on the grid.

The computer application installed and executed on the mobile device receives data from one or more gateway servers such as substation servers or wireless provider servers . The data is interpreted formatted and displayed by the computer application on the mobile device . The bi directional communication between the secured web server and computer application executed on the mobile device is encrypted as is the bi directional communication between the secured web server and the RTU relays that monitor the FCIs.

A web server on the gateway receives requests from the computer application retrieves data from online databases and sends the retrieved data back to the mobile device . In one embodiment the web server pushes alarm notifications to the mobile device to wake up the computer application to retrieve the latest data from the web server . In response to retrieved data or at any time an authorized user may securely configure parameters in the FCI or other sensor.

A second embodiment of the communications architecture of the present invention is depicted in . In this example the web server retrieves data from overhead sensors having long range communication to the gateway via a wireless communication partner network .

A third embodiment of the communications architecture for carrying out the present invention is depicted in . This architecture utilizes a local web server integrated with the relay or RTU to aggregate the data from the short range overhead wireless sensor devices.

Regardless of the communications architecture that is utilized between the mobile device the FCI and other servers the computer application is operable to effect the operation of the desired FCI or other sensor installed on the grid. The computer application accesses operational data of the FCI from a gateway server collecting and storing data for at least one substation. The operational data of the FCI is accessed using an identification number representing the FCI . The user is able to effect the operation of the FCI by changing configuration settings in the computer application . The mobile device transmits the received configuration input from the user to the gateway server and the gateway server updates the configuration of the FCI .

In order to change configuration settings in the FCI the user accesses an overhead sensors page of computer application as depicted in . The overhead sensors page provides for FCI configuration as well as configuration of other sensors power quality configuration wave form configuration and GPS GIS Map It functionality for locating sensors on the grid.

With reference to the FCI configuration page is shown in detail in and provides configuration options by FCI ID number . The FCI configuration page is an interface that allows the user to modify settings for a particular FCI identification number ID . An available option in the FCI configuration page is to activate or deactivate the low current mode. When the low current mode is activated as depicted in the FCIs will detect sections of the grid exhibiting current values lower than a predetermined threshold.

With continued reference to the FCI configuration page has a Temporary Fault Mode setting that when activated will detect transient faults that occur with a specified time window. The Di Dt setting in Amps Cycle units also available on the FCI configuration page provides for configuration of a threshold that the rate rise of anode current may not exceed at the time of thyristor activation. The Reset Time setting allows for the configuration of the number of elapsed cycles that trigger a re set of the device associated with the FCI ID. The capture cycles setting allows the user to configure the number of cycles that are captured during a detected fault event.

Referring now to the Power Quality page provides real time measured values for the diagnosis of faults for the sensor ID of interest. The real time measured values include but are not limited to temperature of the conductor and ambient temperature average load RMS current estimated average RMS line voltage based on change in voltage harmonics power factor Watts VA Real Power Watts Apparent Power VA Reactive Power VARs and direction of current . Other measurements tracked by the application are battery life of the sensors in hours and battery charging capacity status in .

The Wave Form page provides a plot of the electrical current waveforms during the interval configured in the Capture Cycles setting of the FCI Configuration page . An example of a Wave Form viewer and a plot of data points generated by the application are depicted in . The user can scroll or hover over data points in the wave form viewer to display numeric values for data points of interest.

With reference now to the Map It page of the computer application is used to display the location on the map where the FCI or other overhead sensor of interest is present. The location may be indicated by a push pin flag or another type of marker. The location may also be color coded to distinguish the user s location from the target location destination.

The FCI has a particular FCI ID and is located using GPS and in some embodiments GIS. In the embodiment using GPS in conjunction with GIS data spatial correlations are rendered between FCIs sensors and other equipment on the grid. In that same embodiment the FCI identification number is associated with a GIS value.

The Map It functionality provides driving directions to the desired FCI or sensor in mobile devices having the use current location feature or similar setting enabled on the mobile device . Further the health of equipment or a section of the network upon which the FCIs are installed is assigned a color code such as red to represent immediate service required yellow to represent maintenance required and green to represent FCIs or sensors detecting normal operation within predefined parameters and no service requirement at the time of map creation.

Referring now to an authentication and authorization page is shown. End users are required to enter credentials each time they launch the computer application . Prior to the installation of the computer application on the mobile device the user ID user group and unique device ID are hashed as an authorization code. In each request the computer application includes the authorization code and user ID.

The web server then receives the request and determines whether the authorization code matches the user ID in order to determine the access level of the user. In one embodiment the security management module of the open software framework manages the authentication and authorization functionality of the computer application upon receipt of the authentication request by the web server . Transport layer security may be used to further enhance the security of communications occurring over the Internet between the end user s mobile device and the web server .

Timer and alarm settings are configurable via the computer application and are operable to power on power off or re set the FCIs and other sensors on the grid in the event that in rush current or another type of transient fault is detected for a user specified duration. The alarm settings require acknowledgement by a user that the fault event has been cleared.

In one embodiment the computer application is operable to receive aggregate and view data from multiple overhead monitoring FCIs and sensors on the grid. In that same embodiment the computer application provides access to the configuration settings of multiple overhead monitoring sensors concurrently. In addition multiple values of the wave form profiles for several FCIs may be selected viewed and aggregated for reporting and monitoring purposes.

The computer application further supports adaptive fault trip levels that are thresholds configured to change with the manner in which the distribution network is performing over a period of time. For example the remote configuration of FCIs enabled by the computer application allows utility companies to adapt the fault parameters to the dynamic fault signatures of a grounded power system network. This means that utility companies are not bound to the fixed fault parameters of the sensors installed on the grid. Previously utility companies would update the fault parameters reactively by replacing old sensors having fixed parameters with new sensors having the desired set of fixed parameters.

As the ability to configure settings in and effect the operation of an FCI is enabled by the present invention utility companies do not have to install a new FCI to achieve new parameters in the FCI . In this manner utility companies are enabled to adapt to dynamic fault signatures of the grid that change over time with varying load profiles changing environmental conditions performance changes of existing neighboring devices on the grid introduction of new distribution devices or removal of existing devices on the grid. Additionally the computer application is operable to create risk indexes for sensors and sections of the grid using historical and real time data from the servers and made available on the end user s mobile device .

The computer application may lead to a reduction in installation time of FCIs and reduce outage restoration time of a faulted circuit on the grid because the computer application provides expedited data to the appropriate utility personnel as well as a user interface for effecting configuration changes that impact grid operation positively. As a result utility companies may lower their costs and satisfy targets for operational metrics such as System Average Interruption Duration Index SAIDI System Average Interruption Frequency Index SAIFI and Customer Average Interruption Duration Index CAIDI .

A computer application for monitoring an electrical grid and updating utility company personnel end users with real time grid status is developed using the open software framework . An end user installs and executes the computer application on a mobile device and is able to request and receive grid status using the mobile device . The mobile device retrieves data from a substation gateway and provides the end user with grid status and maintenance schedules.

Referring now to architecture for transmitting data from one or more substation gateways to a mobile device is depicted. Fault Detection Fault Isolation and Load Restoration hereinafter FDIR and Volt Var Control hereinafter VVC operations are implemented on the grid. FDIR operations are operable to detect faults and send open or close commands to parts of the network such as a feeder branch. As a result of the open or close commands devices on the grid are de energized or energized within minutes. Similarly VVC logic is operable to maintain power quality by adjusting the voltage of capacitor banks based on detected phase shifts in voltage and or current in the power system. The operations carried out by FDIR and VVC operations are immediately updated in the substation gateway servers as they occur.

Notice of FDIR and VVC operational status is crucial to utility personnel safety. When utility personnel are not in the NCC viewing the updates and alarms directly they are able to receive the updates and alarms on the mobile device remote from the substation.

The mobile device is operable to connect to a substation gateway comprising a web server to retrieve real time and historical data from the substation as well as FDIR and VVC operations. The substation gateway also has one or more OPC clients an OPC server and LDAS or SCADA system. The OPC server receives data from electronic devices and equipment such as transformers fault current sensors and having Fault Detection Fault Isolation and Load Restoration hereinafter FDIR and Volt Var Control hereinafter VVC .

FDIR and VVR operational statuses are transmitted to the OPC server as depicted in . The OPC server has bi directional communication with one or more OPC clients . Further the OPC server has bi directional communication with the web server . Once the web server accesses the desired data the data is automatically made available to the computer application on the mobile device or the mobile device may request the data from the web server .

With continued reference to a single line diagram is depicted on the screen of the mobile device . The single line diagram is a schematic of the network of interest and shows the source load and devices such as transformers circuit breakers switchgear re closers switches and sensors.

With reference now to the user must select a business unit as shown in . The user must belong to the business unit by way of configuration in the user s security profile in the user management and or security management modules of the open software framework in order to access the computer application . Once the user is authenticated the user is presented with an application list corresponding to the business unit selected. It should be understood that business unit and application list are exemplary parameters and that the computer application may be developed using parameters based on business needs of the particular industry.

Referring now to the application list provides the following options VVC FDIR GridSync and SwitchgearMD configuration pages. If the user selects VVC FDIR configuration the VVC FDIR configuration page is displayed. If the end user further selects the FDIR configuration page depicted in the user is presented with a schematic of the grid. The FDIR configuration page also displays and allows for changes to the FDIR operational mode and FDIR operational stage . The FDIR operational mode has the options of auto manual or test. The FDIR operational stage has the settings of no fault fault isolation restoration return to normal.

With reference now to the VVC configuration page displays critical real time control values for variables such as voltage power Var volt ampere reactive and power factor ratio of real power provided to the load to the apparent power in the circuit or node for predetermined locations on the grid. The VVC configuration page allows the end user to select the desired variables and plot the values of the selected variables.

Referring now to the conservation voltage reduction CVR page is depicted. The CVR page displays the voltage values and trends evaluated under CVR control parameters. CVR is a modeling method that reduces grid demand through controlled reduction in operating voltage at consumer load points. CVR modeling uses algorithms based on real time and historical power system measurement values to reduce grid demand. The voltage values and indicate the voltage values at locations on the grid under CVR control such as residences.

With reference now to a device location exhibiting a fault status as determined by FDIR VVC operations is shown on the map page . The map page provides directions from the location of the end user s mobile device to the device location exhibiting a fault status . In one embodiment when the end user is logged into the computer application a fault message appears on the screen in real time as the FDIR VVC diagnoses the fault. The end user can click on or otherwise open the fault message which further directs the end user to the map page showing the device or location on the grid exhibiting the fault status and providing driving directions from the user s location to the device location exhibiting the fault status .

With reference now to the map page shows the spatial relationship between a switch at the grid feeder the user s current location and a target location . Additionally the map page shows the location and statuses of switches and power distribution lines . Switch is depicted on the map as an open square to indicate that the switch is open and electricity is not flowing at that switch location. Switch at the feeder has a filled square to indicate that switch is closed and electricity is flowing from the feeder to other locations on the grid. The power distribution lines are color coded to indicate the operational status of the power lines wherein one color indicates that electricity is not flowing through the power line and a different color indicates that electricity is flowing through the power line along a section of the grid. In the example electricity is not flowing through power line which has an open switch near target location whereas power line is active with electricity flowing. In that same example the user is able to request driving directions from the user s location to the target location experiencing the interruption in electric service.

Referring now to a control setting page is displayed. In the control setting page the end user is able to modify control settings of a capacitor bank on the grid as well as enable or disable devices on the grid from a remote location. In the control setting page the reactive power setting for capacitor banks such as capacitor banks and on the grid may be modified to effect a change in the reactive compensation system with modular fixed or switched capacitor steps that will automatically compensate an individual load or the network to maintain a preset level of power factor. In the present example the reactive power setting is shown in kilovolt ampere reactive kVAR units and is modifiable by a user to effect a change in the reactive compensation system.

With reference to an authentication and authorization page is shown. End users are required to enter credentials each time they launch the computer application . Prior to the installation of the computer application on the mobile device the user ID user group and unique device ID are hashed as an authorization code. In each authentication request the computer application includes the authorization code and user ID.

The web server then receives the request and determines whether the authorization code matches the user ID in order to determine the access level of the user. In one embodiment the security management module of the open software framework manages the authentication and authorization functionality of the computer application upon receipt of the authentication request by the web server . Transport layer security may be used to further enhance the security of communications occurring over the Internet between the end user s mobile device and the web server .

A computer application for notifying end users of the condition of assets hereinafter asset health installed on the grid such as switchgear reclosers and circuit breakers is provided. The computer application monitors measured values of the assets including but not limited to temperature current and pressure. The measured values may be real time or historical values or a comparison between those values. The real time and historical values may be compared to predetermined thresholds or intervals.

The asset health computer application is installed on the end users mobile device and is built using the open software framework . The computer application provides live data and measurements from assets operating attribute trending views an overall asset health status view and maps depicting the locations of the assets. Abnormal conditions in the power system assets raise an alarm in the computer application and notifications are sent to the mobile device of the particular end user s tasked with responding to the alarm from the computer application .

With reference now to system architecture supporting the asset health computer application is depicted. Data aggregation servers collect data from the assets and provide a unified output in Extensible Markup Language XML or JavaScript Objection Notation JSON format to the centralized data server of the asset health monitoring system . The end user devices request and receive data via a wireless connection to the centralized data server of the asset health monitoring system.

The asset health computer application delivers the functionality shown in . An asset health data server implemented on a web service has a bi directional communication with the mobile device to enable the computer application to receive data on health of assets installed on the grid. Examples of assets that are monitored using the asset health computer application include but are not limited to transformers sensors and switchgear.

The asset health application has user experience settings that control the presentation of the GUI viewers and messaging of the computer application on the mobile device . The user experience functionality includes viewers for overall power system health detailed views for individual assets data trends and plots maps and event history. The power system health view provides an overall status view of monitored assets grouped by status and categories.

The user experience functionality provides a map view having locations of the assets marked with a push pin flag or similar marker. Asset markers are color coded to indicate the status and or health of the assets. The map markers have a drill down function for a detailed view of the operational status of the asset of interest. The maps allow the user to link assets of interest and provide driving directions between assets of interest or between the end user s location and the asset s of interest. The map view of the user experience functionality utilizes GIS data to locate the assets and determine the spatial arrangement of assets in relation to other assets.

The user experience functionality also provides an alarm notification handler . The alarm notification handler provides notification of abnormal incidents or operation of assets on the grid through broadcast messaging on the devices of end users responsible for the particular assets. When an end user acknowledges an alarm or that a maintenance item is complete a broadcast message is also sent to the devices of other end users having the appropriate security profiles allowing them to receive the broadcast message. The end user may acknowledge an alarm directly from the mobile device on which the alarm notification was received.

The data synchronization service of the computer application has configuration management wake up scheduling data sync and alarm notification modules . The configuration management module allows for configuration of the refresh rate of the data exchange between the computer application and the asset health data server . The wake up scheduling module ensures that the end user devices are active to receive data and notifications from the asset health computer application . The data sync module synchronizes the data with the central substation control center over secured connections. The alarm notification module raises notifications to the end user devices when assets on the system are exhibiting measured or calculated values outside of predetermined thresholds or ranges for those values.

As depicted in the authentication and security module interfaces with the asset health data server and the mobile device having the computer application installed thereon. End users must authenticate prior to receiving access to the computer application as already described for the other computer applications of the present invention.

With reference now to exemplary screens from the asset health computer application are shown. Screen requires the end user to accept terms and conditions for use of the computer application . If the end user accepts the terms the end user may modify account settings in screen . The end user is able to store their logon and password in screen . Screen allows the end user to set the desired temperature unit of measure demo mode for testing the computer application that also prevents the user from modifying the configuration or status of assets and a refresh frequency for data received by the computer application .

With continued reference to a status menu is available in screen of the computer application . A grouping of assets by alarm status on the overall power system is available in screen . The end user may select one of the groups of alarm statuses such as the warning s option that shows 2 warnings in the present example. Moving to screen the end user has chosen the warning s option and the two warnings are associated with Switchgear 4 and Switchgear 5.

If the end user selects Switchgear 5 to view in more detail as shown in the detail view of screen the options of status history and acknowledge alarms are available for selection. If the end user chooses the status history option a time and date stamped listing of the status history for a predetermined duration is displayed on the mobile device as shown in screen .

The status history of the exemplary Switchgear 5 as viewed in chronological order on page from the bottom up begins with a normal status on Sunday Jan. 22 2012 at 11 52 20 EST. The condition is changed to normal status again on Thursday Jan. 26 2012 at 11 52 20 EST. On Sunday Jan. 29 2012 the condition is changed to a severe status at 11 52 20 EST. On Tuesday Jan. 31 2012 the condition is changed to a warning status at 11 52 20 EST. On Wednesday Feb. 1 2012 the condition is changed to a warning status at 11 52 20 EST.

The severe warning and normal statuses are determined by measured or calculated values received from the monitored asset s of interest. Preceding each status change described above are alarm events that are acknowledged using the acknowledge alarms selection on screen by the end user servicing Switchgear 5 for example. An acknowledgement of a severe or warning alarm in most cases will change the status of the monitored asset to warning or normal status depending on the situation and the predefined thresholds for triggering the alarm statuses.

Referring now to there are several screens of the asset health computer application depicted. Screen is a pie chart showing the proportion of the various statuses of the frames of exemplary Switchgear 5 over a predetermined period of time. It should be understood that charting functions are not limited to pie charts and that bar charts and various other charts are available in the computer application . Screen shows the six frames of exemplary Switchgear 5 and the status for each frame. Frames and are in normal operation and frames and are exhibiting severe status. Screen provides a drill down further into the components of Frame which is exhibiting a severe status. The exemplary components of Frame for which temperature values are shown are the main bus upper bushing and lower bushing. The load temperature is also shown.

With continued reference to a temperature reading and date and time stamp of the reading or record is shown for conductors A B and C of main bus f in Screen . Screen is the result of drilling down into or selecting the main bus f option of screen . Another feature provided by the computer application is the selection of a component in the present example the selected component is the upper bushing option of screen for charting historical and real time values. The selected component and user specified or predetermined duration is depicted in the graphical view of screen which shows temperature values over the exemplary time span of a week.

Screen of is a view of a broadcast notification on an end user s mobile device that the status of switchgear has been changed. Upon selecting or drilling into the notification the end user may act on the notification by acknowledging an alarm or call up charts for the asset or request driving directions to the asset of interest.

Referring now to a schematic of the six frames of exemplary switchgear 5 is displayed by the mobile device when the user drills down by selecting any of the six frames of screen . Frames and are operating under normal status and are color coded differently from the frames and operating under severe status . Each of the frames are represented as boxes having horizontal lines therein that represent feeder lines to the exemplary Switchgear 5 and may also represent feeder lines to circuit breakers. The parallel lines represent bus bars. The bus bars are used to show the manner in which the frames and of the switchgear are connected.

While the present application illustrates various embodiments of a system and method for developing deploying and implementing power system computer applications and while these embodiments have been described in some detail it is not the intention of the applicant to restrict or in any way limit the scope of the appended claims to such detail. Additional advantages and modifications will readily appear to those skilled in the art. Therefore the invention in its broader aspects is not limited to the specific details the representative embodiments and illustrative examples shown and described. Accordingly departures may be made from such details without departing from the spirit or scope of the applicant s general inventive concept.

