---

title: Method and apparatus for reinforcement of broadcast transmissions in MBSFN inactive areas
abstract: A method for a wireless communication system includes broadcasting that a first service is available in a first MBSFN and a second service is available in a second MBSFN. The method includes supporting a service not broadcasted as available. For example, supporting the first service with the second MBSFN and/or supporting the second service with the first MBSFN. The supporting or reinforcing can be done by echoing. The echoing is scheduled along with the owned service.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08929904&OS=08929904&RS=08929904
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 08929904
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130130
---
This application is a division of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 444 578 entitled A METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR REINFORCEMENT OF BROADCAST TRANSMISSIONS IN MBSFN INACTIVE AREAS which is the National Stage Entry of International Application Number PCT US2007 083820 entitled METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR REINFORCEMENT OF BROADCAST TRANSMISSIONS IN MBSFN INACTIVE AREAS filed on Nov. 6 2007 now abandoned which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent application Ser. No. 60 864 779 entitled A METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR REINFORCEMENT OF BROADCAST TRANSMISSIONS IN SFN INACTIVE AREAS filed on Nov. 7 2006 the content of each of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety for all purposes.

The following description relates generally to wireless communications and more particularly to providing a mechanism for reusing the idled radio resources in the MBSFN inactive area to contribute to the adjacent MBSFN transmissions.

Wireless communication systems are widely deployed to provide various types of communication content such as for example voice data and so on. Typical wireless communication systems may be multiple access systems capable of supporting communication with multiple users by sharing available system resources e.g. bandwidth transmit power . . . . Examples of such multiple access systems may include code division multiple access CDMA systems time division multiple access TDMA systems frequency division multiple access TDMA systems 3GPP LTE systems orthogonal frequency division multiplexing OFDM localized frequency division multiplexing LFDM orthogonal frequency division multiple access OFDMA systems and the like.

Generally a wireless multiple access communication system can simultaneously support communication for multiple wireless terminals. Each terminal communicates with one or more base stations via transmissions on the forward and reverse links. The forward link or downlink refers to the communication link from the base stations to the terminals and the reverse link or uplink refers to the communication link from the terminals to the base stations. This communication link may be established via a single in single out multiple in signal out or a multiple in multiple out MIMO system.

A MIMO system employs multiple N transmit antennas and multiple N receive antennas for data transmission. A MIMO channel formed by the Ntransmit and Nreceive antennas may be decomposed into Nindependent channels which are also referred to as spatial channels where N minN N. Each of the Nindependent channels corresponds to a dimension. The MIMO system can provide improved performance e.g. higher throughput and or greater reliability if the additional dimensionalities created by the multiple transmit and receive antennas are utilized.

A MIMO system supports a time division duplex TDD and frequency division duplex FDD systems. In a TDD system the forward and reverse link transmissions are on the same frequency region so that the reciprocity principle allows the estimation of the forward link channel from the reverse link channel. This enables the access point to extract transmit beam forming gain on the forward link when multiple antennas are available at the access point.

In a wireless communication system a Node B or base station may transmit data to a user equipment UE on the downlink and or receive data from the UE on the uplink. The downlink or forward link refers to the communication link from the Node B to the UE and the uplink or reverse link refers to the communication link from the UE to the Node B. The Node B may also send control information e.g. assignments of system resources to the UE. Similarly the UE may send control information to the Node B to support data transmission on the downlink and or for other purposes.

In Multicast Broadcast Single Frequency Network MBSFN transmissions of multicast or broadcast services e.g. MBMS the coverage of service is limited by interference at the edge of the MBSFN transmission area. To minimize this problem current designs call for a buffer zone of cells at the edge of the area that do not transmit on the radio resources used for the MBSFN transmission. The radio resources in this buffer zone are currently under utilized.

The following presents a simplified summary of one or more embodiments in order to provide a basic understanding of such embodiments. This summary is not an extensive overview of all contemplated embodiments and is intended to neither identify key or critical elements of all embodiments nor delineate the scope of any or all embodiments. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts of one or more embodiments in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

In accordance with an aspect a method for a wireless communication system includes broadcasting that a first service is available in a first MBSFN area and a second service is available in a second MBSFN area. The method includes supporting a service not indicated as available. The supporting or reinforcing can be done by echoing e.g. transmitting the content of a service in a cell where it would not otherwise be transmitted. The echoing is scheduled along with the owned service in one aspect. By owned it is meant the service belongs to and is advertised as available in a MBSFN area. For example the first service is owned by the first MBSFN area and the owned service is broadcast to the subscribing mobile devices in all cells of the first MBSFN area optionally including the border cells but the second service is not broadcast in the first MBSFN area. In this aspect of the invention instead of idling radio resources associated with the second service in the border cells the border cells can broadcast the second service to strengthen the transmission of the second service in nearby cells of the second MBSFN area. The providers of the MBSFN services can be two different companies or two different network entities so the indications that a first service is available in a first MBSFN and a second service is available in a second MBSFN may be transmitted by different parties and or at different times. In addition one service or both services need not be indicated as available in the border cells.

In accordance with an aspect a processor is configured for using a border area between at least two adjacent MBSFN transmission areas the border area belonging to a first MBSFN transmission area and the processor is configured to support a transmission from another MBSFN. The transmission can be a service such as a Multimedia Broadcast and Multicast Service MBMS service. The service can be a service that the first MBSFN does not advertise as offering. The support can be dynamically altered or changed based upon network conditions or subscriber factors such as demographics location of the subscriber and or a number of current subscribers. For example the support can be only initiated when there are more than a threshold number of subscribers that can benefit. In one aspect a method can include transmitting both a service that the MBSFN does not advertise as having and a service that the MBSFN does advertise as having. In another aspect an apparatus operable in a wireless communication system including a plurality of cells the apparatus includes means for reusing an idled radio resource in an MBSFN inactive area to contribute to an adjacent MBSFN transmission and means for carrying additional transmissions in each of the cells. In still another aspect the apparatus includes a mobile device including a processor configured to receive from a border area belonging to a first MBSFN area a transmission echoing a service being transmitted in a second MBSFN area. In an aspect a computer program product is provided that includes a computer readable medium including code for reusing an idled radio resource in an MBSFN inactive area to contribute to an adjacent MBSFN transmission.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the one or more embodiments comprise the features hereinafter fully described and particularly pointed out in the claims. The following description and the annexed drawings set forth in detail certain illustrative aspects of the one or more embodiments. These aspects are indicative however of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of various embodiments may be employed and the described embodiments are intended to include all such aspects and their equivalents.

Various aspects are now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of one or more aspects. It may be evident however that such aspect s may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing one or more aspects.

In accordance with an aspect a method for a wireless communication system includes broadcasting that a first service is available in a first MBSFN and a second service is available in a second MBSFN. The method includes supporting a service not broadcasted as available. For example supporting the first service with the second MBSFN and or supporting the second service with the first MBSFN. The supporting or reinforcing can be done by echoing. The echoing is scheduled along with the owned service. For example the first service is owned by the first MBSFN and the owned service is broadcast to the subscribing mobile devices but when a device subscribing to the service of the second MBSFN is near the first MBSFN instead of idling the border cells the border cells can both broadcast the first service and can also broadcast the second service to strengthen the second service. Of course the providers of the MBSFNs can be two different companies so the broadcasting that a first service is available in a first MBSFN and a second service is available in a second MBSFN may be done by different parties and or at different times. In addition one service need not be broadcast as available.

In addition various aspects of the disclosure are described below. It should be apparent that the teaching herein may be embodied in a wide variety of forms and that any specific structure and or function disclosed herein is merely representative. Based on the teachings herein one skilled in the art should appreciate that an aspect disclosed herein may be implemented independently of any other aspects and that two or more of these aspects may be combined in various ways. For example an apparatus may be implemented and or a method practiced using any number of the aspects set forth herein. In addition an apparatus may be implemented and or a method practiced using other structure and or functionality in addition to or other than one or more of the aspects set forth herein. As an example many of the methods devices systems and apparatuses described herein are descried in the context of an ad hoc or unplanned semi planned deployed wireless communication environment that provides repeating ACK channel in an orthogonal system. One skilled in the art should appreciate that similar techniques could apply to other communication environments.

As used in this application the terms component system and the like are intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware software software in execution firmware middle ware microcode and or any combination thereof. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers. Also these components can execute from various computer readable media having various data structures stored thereon. The components may communicate by way of local and or remote processes such as in accordance with a signal having one or more data packets e.g. data from one component interacting with another component in a local system distributed system and or across a network such as the Internet with other systems by way of the signal . Additionally components of systems described herein may be rearranged and or complemented by additional components in order to facilitate achieving the various aspects goals advantages etc. described with regard thereto and are not limited to the precise configurations set forth in a given figure as will be appreciated by one skilled in the art.

Furthermore various aspects are described herein in connection with a subscriber station. A subscriber station can also be called a system a subscriber unit mobile station mobile remote station remote terminal access terminal user terminal user agent a user device or user equipment. A subscriber station may be a cellular telephone a cordless telephone a Session Initiation Protocol SIP phone a wireless local loop WLL station a personal digital assistant PDA a handheld device having wireless connection capability or other processing device connected to a wireless modem or similar mechanism facilitating wireless communication with a processing device.

Moreover various aspects or features described herein may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. For example computer readable media can include but are not limited to magnetic storage devices e.g. hard disk floppy disk magnetic strips . . . optical disks e.g. compact disk CD digital versatile disk DVD . . . smart cards and flash memory devices e.g. card stick key drive . . . . Additionally various storage media described herein can represent one or more devices and or other machine readable media for storing information. The term machine readable medium can include without being limited to wireless channels and various other media capable of storing containing and or carrying instruction s and or data.

Moreover the word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather use of the word exemplary is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion. As used in this application the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X employs A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form.

As used herein the terms to infer or inference refer generally to the process of reasoning about or inferring states of the system environment and or user from a set of observations as captured via events and or data. Inference can be employed to identify a specific context or action or can generate a probability distribution over states for example. The inference can be probabilistic that is the computation of a probability distribution over states of interest based on a consideration of data and events. Inference can also refer to techniques employed for composing higher level events from a set of events and or data. Such inference results in the construction of new events or actions from a set of observed events and or stored event data whether or not the events are correlated in close temporal proximity and whether the events and data come from one or several event and data sources.

The transmission reinforcing techniques described herein may be used for various wireless communication systems such as CDMA TDMA FDMA OFDMA and SC FDMA systems. The terms system and network are often used interchangeably. A CDMA system may implement a radio technology such as Universal Terrestrial Radio Access UTRA cdma2000 etc. UTRA includes Wideband CDMA W CDMA and Low Chip Rate LCR . Cdma2000 covers IS 2000 IS 95 and IS 856 standards. A TDMA system may implement a radio technology such as Global System for Mobile Communications GSM . An OFDMA system may implement a radio technology such as Evolved UTRA E UTRA IEEE 802.11 IEEE 802.16 IEEE 802.20 Flash OFDM etc. These various radio technologies and standards are known in the art.

UTRA E UTRA and GSM are part of Universal Mobile Telecommunication System UMTS . Long Term Evolution LTE is an upcoming release of UMTS that uses E UTRA. UTRA E UTRA GSM UMTS and LTE are described in documents from an organization named 3rd Generation Partnership Project 3GPP . Cdma2000 is described in documents from an organization named 3rd Generation Partnership Project 16 3GPP2 . For clarity certain aspects of the techniques are described below for uplink transmission in LTE and 3GPP terminology is used in much of the description below.

LTE utilizes orthogonal frequency division multiplexing OFDM on the downlink and single carrier frequency division multiplexing SC FDM on the uplink. OFDM and SC FDM partition the system bandwidth into multiple N orthogonal subcarriers which are also commonly referred to as tones bins etc. Each subcarrier may be modulated with data. In general modulation symbols are sent in the frequency domain with OFDM and in the time domain with SC FDM. For LTE the spacing between adjacent subcarriers may be fixed and the total number of subcarriers N may be dependent on the system bandwidth. In one design N 512 for a system bandwidth of 5 MHz N 1024 for a system bandwidth of 10 MHz and N 2048 for a system bandwidth of 20 MHz. In general N may be any integer value.

The system may support a frequency division duplex FDD mode and or a time division duplex TDD mode. In the FDD mode separate frequency channels may be used for the downlink and uplink and downlink transmissions and uplink transmissions may be sent concurrently on their separate frequency channels. In the TDD mode a common frequency channel may be used for both the downlink and uplink downlink transmissions may be sent in some time periods and uplink transmissions may be sent in other time periods. The LTE downlink transmission scheme is partitioned by radio frames e.g. 10 ms radio frame . Each frame comprises a pattern made of frequency e.g. sub carrier and time e.g. OFDM symbols . The 10 ms radio frame is divided into plurality of adjacent 0.5 ms sub frames also referred to as sub frames or timeslots and interchangeably used hereinafter . Each sub frame comprises plurality of resource blocks wherein each resource block made up of one or more sub carrier and one or more OFDM symbol. One or more resource blocks may be used for transmission of data control information pilot or any combination thereof.

A single frequency network or MBSFN is a broadcast network where several transmitters simultaneously send the same signal over the same frequency channel. Analog FM and AM radio broadcast networks as well as digital broadcast networks can operate in this manner. Analog television transmission has proven to be more difficult since the MBSFN results in ghosting due to echoes of the same signal.

A simplified form of MBSFN can be achieved by a low power co channel repeater booster or broadcast translator which is utilized as gap filler transmitter. The aim of MBSFNs is efficient utilization of the radio spectrum allowing a higher number of radio and TV programs in comparison to traditional multi frequency network MFN transmission. An MBSFN may also increase the coverage area and decrease the outage probability in comparison to an MFN since the total received signal strength may increase to positions midway between the transmitters.

MBSFN schemes are somewhat analogous to what in non broadcast wireless communication for example cellular networks and wireless computer networks is called transmitter macrodiversity CDMA soft handoff and Dynamic Single Frequency Networks DSFN . MBSFN transmission can be considered as a special form of multipath propagation. In multipath propagation generally the radio receiver receives several echoes of the same signal and the constructive or destructive interference among these echoes also known as self interference may result in fading. This is problematic especially in wideband communication and high data rate digital communications since the fading in that case is frequency selective as opposed to flat fading and since the time spreading of the echoes may result in intersymbol interference ISI . Fading and ISI can be avoided by means of diversity schemes and equalization filters. In an MBSFN transmission means are provided for the receiver to align these echoes of the signal so that they function only as constructive interference resulting in a higher signal to noise ratio SNR .

In wideband digital broadcasting self interference cancellation is facilitated by the OFDM or COFDM modulation method. OFDM uses a large number of slow low bandwidth modulators instead of one fast wide band modulator. Each modulator has its own frequency sub channel and sub carrier frequency. Since each modulator is very slow we can afford to insert a guard interval between the symbols and thus eliminate the ISI. Although the fading is frequency selective over the whole frequency channel it can be considered as flat within the narrowband sub channel. Thus advanced equalization filters can be avoided. A forward error correction code FEC can counteract that a certain portion of the sub carriers are exposed to too much fading to be correctly demodulated.

OFDM is utilized in the terrestrial digital TV broadcasting systems such as DVB T and ISDB T. OFDM is also widely used in digital radio systems including DAB HD Radio and T DMB. Therefore these systems are well suited to MBSFN operation. The 8VSB modulation method used in North America for digital TV specified in ATSC standard A 110 may perhaps also allow the use of MBSFN transmission.

Through the use of virtual channel numbering a multi frequency network MFN can appear as an MBSFN to the viewer in ATSC. Alternatives to using OFDM modulation in MBSFN self interference cancellation would be CDMA Rake receivers. MIMO channels i.e. phased array antenna single carrier modulation in combination by guard intervals and frequency domain equalization. In a Multicast Broadcast Single Frequency Network the transmitters and receivers are usually synchronized with the others using GPS or a signal from the main station or network as a reference clock. For example the use of a special marker can be employed the Mega frame Initialization Packet MIP that is inserted in the bit stream at a central distribution point and signals to the MBSFN transmitters the absolute time as read from a GPS receiver at which this point in the data stream is to be broadcast.

Referring to a multiple access wireless communication system according to one embodiment is illustrated. An access point AP includes multiple antenna groups one including and another including and and an additional including and . In only two antennas are shown for each antenna group however more or fewer antennas may be utilized for each antenna group. Access terminal AT is in communication with antennas and where antennas and transmit information to access terminal over forward link and receive information from access terminal over reverse link . Access terminal is in communication with antennas and where antennas and transmit information to access terminal over forward link and receive information from access terminal over reverse link . Access terminals and can be UEs. In a FDD system communication links and may use different frequency for communication. For example forward link may use a different frequency than that used by reverse link .

Each group of antennas and or the area in which they are designed to communicate is often referred to as a sector of the access point. In the embodiment antenna groups each are designed to communicate to access terminals in a sector of the areas covered by access point .

In communication over forward links and the transmitting antennas of access point utilize beam forming in order to improve the signal to noise ratio of forward links for the different access terminals and . Also an access point using beam forming to transmit to access terminals scattered randomly through its coverage causes less interference to access terminals in neighboring cells than an access point transmitting through a single antenna to all its access terminals.

An access point may be a fixed station used for communicating with the terminals and may also be referred to as an access point a Node B or some other terminology. An access terminal may also be called an access terminal user equipment UE a wireless communication device terminal access terminal or some other terminology.

In an embodiment each data stream is transmitted over a respective transmit antenna. TX data processor formats codes and interleaves the traffic data for each data stream based on a particular coding scheme selected for that data stream to provide coded data.

The coded data for each data stream may be multiplexed with pilot data using FORM techniques. The pilot data is typically a known data pattern that is processed in a known manner and may be used at the receiver system to estimate the channel response. The multiplexed pilot and coded data for each data stream is then modulated i.e. symbol mapped based on a particular modulation scheme e.g. BASK ASK M PSF or M QAM selected for that data stream to provide modulation symbols. The data rate coding and modulation for each data stream may be determined by instructions performed by processor .

The modulation symbols for all data streams are then provided to a TX MIMO processor which may further process the modulation symbols e.g. for OFDM . TX MIMO processor then provides Nmodulation symbol streams to Ntransmitters TMTR through . In certain embodiments TX MIMO processor applies beam forming weights to the symbols of the data streams and to the antenna from which the symbol is being transmitted.

Each transmitter receives and processes a respective symbol stream to provide one or more analog signals and further conditions e.g. amplifies filters and up converts the analog signals to provide a modulated signal suitable for transmission over the MIMO channel. Nmodulated signals from transmitters through are then transmitted from Nantennas through respectively.

At receiver system the transmitted modulated signals are received by Nantennas through and the received signal from each antenna is provided to a respective receiver RCVR through . Each receiver conditions e.g. filters amplifies and down converts a respective received signal digitizes the conditioned signal to provide samples and further processes the samples to provide a corresponding received symbol stream.

An RX data processor then receives and processes the Nreceived symbol streams from Nreceivers based on a particular receiver processing technique to provide N detected symbol streams. The RX data processor then demodulates deinterleaves and decodes each detected symbol stream to recover the traffic data for the data stream. The processing by RX data processor is complementary to that performed by TX MIMO processor and TX data processor at transmitter system . A processor periodically determines which pre coding matrix to use. Processor formulates a reverse link message comprising a matrix index portion and a rank value portion.

The reverse link message may comprise various types of information regarding the communication link and or the received data stream. The reverse link message is then processed by a TX data processor which also receives traffic data for a number of data streams from a data source modulated by a modulator conditioned by transmitters through and transmitted back to transmitter system .

At transmitter system the modulated signals from receiver system are received by antennas conditioned by receivers demodulated by a demodulator and processed by a RX data processor to extract the reserve link message transmitted by the receiver system . Processor then determines which pre coding matrix to use for determining the beam forming weights then processes the extracted message.

In an aspect logical channels are classified into Control Channels and Traffic Channels. Logical Control Channels comprises Broadcast Control Channel BCCH that is DL channel for broadcasting system control information. Paging Control Channel PCCH which is DL channel that transfers paging information. Multicast Control Channel MCCH which is Point to multipoint DL channel used for transmitting Multimedia Broadcast and Multicast Service MBMS scheduling and control information for one or several MTCHs. Generally after establishing a Radio Resource Control RRC connection this channel is only used by UEs that receive MBMS. Dedicated Control Channel DCCH is Point to point bi directional channel that transmits dedicated control information and used by UEs having an RRC connection. In aspect Logical Traffic Channels comprise a Dedicated Traffic Channel DTCH that is Point to point bi directional channel dedicated to one UE for the transfer of user information. Also a Multicast Traffic Channel MTCH for Point to multipoint DL channel for transmitting traffic data.

In an aspect Transport Channels are classified into DL and UL. DL Transport Channels comprises a Broadcast Channel BCH Downlink Shared Data Channel DL SDCH and a Paging Channel PCH the PCH for support of UE power saving DRX cycle is indicated by the network to the UE broadcasted over entire cell and mapped to PHY resources which can be used for other control traffic channels. The UL Transport Channels comprises a Random Access Channel RACH a Request Channel REQCH an Uplink Shared Data Channel UL SDCH and plurality of PHY channels. The PHY channels comprise a set of DL channels and UL channels.

In an aspect a channel structure is provided that preserves low signal peak to average PAR values and at any given time the channel is contiguous or uniformly spaced in frequency that is a desired property of a single carrier waveform.

In Multicast Broadcast Single Frequency Network MBSFN transmissions of multicast or broadcast services e.g. MBMS the coverage of service is limited by interference at the edge of the MBSFN transmission area. To minimize this problem current designs call for a buffer zone of cells at the edge of the area that do not transmit in the radio resources assigned to the service. Some of the exemplary generalized non limiting embodiments described herein include employing the radio resources of these inactive cells to reinforce the transmission.

The dead zone of inactive cells appears to be the state of the art others have not noticeably addressed the possibility of using the apparently wasted radio capacity. Cells in the inactive area can be employed to transmit reinforcing copies of the transmission from the neighboring MBSFN area in stock. Where two MBSFN areas meet without a buffer zone the radio resources of the boundary cells in each area are assigned to reinforce the transmission in the other area. In stock the herein described methods and apparatus can include a mapping of radio resources to support this.

Described herein is a method for reinforcing broadcast transmissions at the edge of a group of synchronized cells. The nominal setting is MBMS in the 3GPP LTE environment but the general outlines of the method are the same for any MBSFN broadcast transmission in which the transmission data rate may be limited by interference from cells at the edge of the service area.

In the 3GPP LTE setting MBMS is primarily intended to be realised as a set of synchronised transmissions in a Multicast Broadcast Single Frequency Network MBSFN . The principle in MBSFN operation is that all the cells in a geographic area transmit a bit identical data stream using synchronized radio resources thus for a UE listening to the service in a particular cell the transmissions from neighboring cells appear as reinforcing signal rather than as interference.

However the geographic footprint of a service is naturally limited the evening news in Helsinki is probably not of much interest to subscribers in Beijing in addition the geographical area across which radio resources can be coordinated by a single network node may be limited. Where two different MBSFN service areas meet the benefits of MBSFN transmission are largely lost for UEs near the boundary within MBSFN area the transmissions from MBSFN area are seen as interference and vice versa. This situation is illustrated in in a noisy environment with the shading representing different MBSFN areas a UE in the illustration is listening to a transmission from the lighter shaded cells but seeing a large amount of interference because of its proximity to the darker shaded cells in the other MBSFN transmission group.

To minimize this interference it is contemplated in RAN3 to maintain a so called MBSFN inactive area as a buffer zone. Cells within this zone would be forbidden to use the radio resources reserved for the MBSFN transmission the capacity of these radio resources would go to waste in the inactive cells but they would not create interference for cells within the MBSFN area itself. shows this environment with a first MBSFN area MBSFN area separated from a second MBSFN area MBSFN area by a MBSFN inactive area .

Here the two MBSFN areas can use the same radio resources without causing large amounts of interference because the silent cells in the inactive area separate them. The disadvantage is evident UEs in the inactive area probably cannot receive either service reliably.

In an aspect described herein are methods of reusing the idled radio resources in the MBSFN inactive area to contribute to the adjacent MBSFN transmissions.

Consider the case where three MBSFN areas meet at a point as represented by the differently shaded cells in including a medium shaded cell A a dark shaded cell B and a light shaded cell C. For a UE near the triple point served by cell A in the medium shaded MBSFN area the expected SNR would be 3 dB signal from cell A and interference from B and C all at approximately equal strengths .

In an aspect to mitigate the interference described is a method to carry additional transmissions in each of the cells as shown in . The central dots indicate a duplicate transmission of an adjacent MBSFN area s data. That is cell C transmits the service belonging to itself and also a copy of the service from the cell B. Cell B transmits the service belonging to itself and also a copy of the service from the cell C. Cell A transmits the service belonging to itself and also a copy of the service from the cell B. For example cell A can be broadcasting Los Angeles local news cell B can be transmitting San Diego local news and both cells A and B because they are guard or border or buffer cells transmit each other s transmissions and or cell C s signal.

This means that the services need to be scheduled in separate resource blocks. An example of scheduling for the cells above is shown in at environment . Cell A s transmission is illustrated at . Cell B s transmission is illustrated at . Cell C s transmission is illustrated at . The extra transmissions are shaded lighter in each cell at while the regular transmissions are at . These resource blocks would not normally be read by any UE in the cell that transmits them they are provided only to reinforce transmissions for UEs in other cells.

Now consider a UE at the triple point of served by cell A. It sees a reinforcing signal from cell C as well as the transmission from cell A interference comes only from cell B. In a perfect RF environment with no other contributions the SNR would be 3 dB a gain of 6 dB over the situation without the reinforcing transmissions.

This 6 dB gain could be used e.g. to permit the system to apply changes to modulation and coding to produce a higher application data rate. The exact gain depends upon modulation assumptions and the required coverage levels however analysis suggests that the limiting edge of cell data rate could be increased by as much as a factor of three far more than necessary to compensate for the extra radio resources used by the reinforcing transmissions.

It should be noted that in reasonably well behaved geometries with MBSFN areas meeting either at an edge or a triple point the reinforcing scheme can be extended indefinitely. illustrates an environment with a first MBSFN a second MBSFN a third MBSFN a fourth MBSFN a fifth MBSFN and a sixth MBSFN each MBSFN area having 9 cells. The figure indicates one possible arrangement for the reinforcing transmissions in boundary cells it should be clear that the pattern shown can be repeated. At the cells are transmitting service of adjoining MBSFNs. It can be one adjoining MBSFN or two or more MBSFNs. At a cell is illustrated that is one in from the boundary and thus it is contemplated that a cell broadcasting its own service and echoing another MBSFN cell s service is not limited to only boundary cells. This is especially useful in a Femto cell environment as set forth below.

More complex interactions between MBSFN areas e.g. if a four corners situation is unavoidable may require changes to this tiling scheme to adapt to the more complex environment. In most cases these challenges could be met by ad hoc arrangements but there may be geometries in which some coverage at the edge of the MBSFN area has to be sacrificed. Therefore in some embodiments the border includes some cells echoing another MBSFN s transmission and some cells that do not echo another MBSFN s transmission. In any case the limiting SNR is always higher than it would be without the reinforcing transmissions.

While for purposes of simplicity of explanation the methodologies are shown and described as a series of acts it is to be understood and appreciated that the methodologies are not limited by the order of acts as some acts may in accordance with the claimed subject matter occur in different orders and or concurrently with other acts from that shown and described herein. For example those skilled in the art will understand and appreciate that a methodology could alternatively be represented as a series of interrelated states or events such as in a state diagram. Moreover not all illustrated acts may be required to implement a methodology in accordance with the claimed subject matter.

For a multiple access system e.g. FDMA OFDMA CDMA TDMA etc. multiple terminals can transmit concurrently on the uplink. For such a system the pilot subbands may be shared among different terminals. The channel estimation techniques may be used in cases where the pilot subbands for each terminal span the entire operating band possibly except for the band edges . Such a pilot subband structure would be desirable to obtain frequency diversity for each terminal. The techniques described herein may be implemented by various means. For example these techniques may be implemented in hardware software or a combination thereof. For a hardware implementation which may be digital analog or both digital and analog the processing units used for channel estimation may be implemented within one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs digital signal processors DSPs digital signal processing devices DSPDs programmable logic devices PLDs field programmable gate arrays FPGAs processors controllers micro controllers microprocessors other electronic units designed to perform the functions described herein or a combination thereof. With software implementation can be through modules e.g. procedures functions and so on that perform the functions described herein. The software codes may be stored in memory unit and executed by the processors.

It is to be understood that the embodiments described herein may be implemented in hardware software firmware middleware microcode or any combination thereof. For a hardware implementation the processing units may be implemented within one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs digital signal processors DSPs digital signal processing devices DSPDs programmable logic devices PLDs field programmable gate arrays FPGAs processors controllers micro controllers microprocessors other electronic units designed to perform the functions described herein or a combination thereof.

When the embodiments are implemented in software firmware middleware or microcode program code or code segments they may be stored in a machine readable medium such as a storage component. A code segment may represent a procedure a function a subprogram a program a routine a subroutine a module a software package a class or any combination of instructions data structures or program statements. A code segment may be coupled to another code segment or a hardware circuit by passing and or receiving information data arguments parameters or memory contents. Information arguments parameters data etc. may be passed forwarded or transmitted using any suitable means including memory sharing message passing token passing network transmission etc.

For a software implementation the techniques described herein may be implemented with modules e.g. procedures functions and so on that perform the functions described herein. The software codes may be stored in memory units and executed by processors. The memory unit may be implemented within the processor or external to the processor in which case it can be communicatively coupled to the processor via various means as is known in the art.

The main benefit of an Access Point Base Station is the simplicity of ultra low cost scalable deployment. Design studies have shown that access point base stations can be designed to scale from simple hot spot coverage through to large deployments by racking such units into full scale base stations. The claimed attractions for a cellular operator are that these devices can increase both capacity and coverage while reducing both capex Capital expenditures and opex Operating expenditures .

Access Point Base Stations are stand alone units that are typically deployed in hot spots in building and even in home. Variations include attaching a Wi Fi router to allow a Wi Fi hot spot to work as backhaul for a cellular hotspot or vice versa. Femtocells are an alternative way to deliver the benefits of Fixed Mobile Convergence. The distinction is that most FMC architectures require a new dual mode handset while a femtocell based deployment will work with existing handsets.

As a result Access Point Base Stations must work with handsets that are compliant with existing RAN technologies. The reuse of existing RAN technologies and potentially re use of existing frequency channels could create problems since the additional femtocell transmitters represent a large number of interference sources potentially resulting in significant operational challenges for existing deployments. This is one of the biggest areas that femtocells must overcome if they are to be successful.

Access Point Base Stations typically rely on the Internet for connectivity which can potentially reduce deployment costs but introduces security risks that generally do not exist in typical cellular systems. A boomer cell is a very big cell that would cover state sized area or larger.

Because at least a portion of the communication between the device and the MBSFNs are wireless the security layer is provided in one exemplary generalized non limiting embodiment. The security layer can be used to cryptographically protect e.g. encrypt data as well as to digitally sign data to enhance security and unwanted unintentional or malicious disclosure. In operation the security component or layer can communicate data to from both the MBSFNs and the mobile device .

An encryption component can be used to cryptographically protect data during transmission as well as while stored. The encryption component employs an encryption algorithm to encode data for security purposes. The algorithm is essentially a formula that is used to turn data into a secret code. Each algorithm uses a string of bits known as a key to perform the calculations. The larger the key e.g. the more bits in the key the greater the number of potential patterns can be created thus making it harder to break the code and descramble the contents of the data.

Most encryption algorithms use the block cipher method which code fixed blocks of input that are typically from 64 to 128 bits in length. A decryption component can be used to convert encrypted data back to its original form. In one aspect a public key can be used to encrypt data upon transmission to a storage device. Upon retrieval the data can be decrypted using a private key that corresponds to the public key used to encrypt.

A signature component can be used to digitally sign data and documents when transmitting and or retrieving from the device . It is to be understood that a digital signature or certificate guarantees that a file has not been altered similar to if it were carried in an electronically sealed envelope. The signature is an encrypted digest e.g. one way hash function used to confirm authenticity of data. Upon accessing the data the recipient can decrypt the digest and also re compute the digest from the received file or data. If the digests match the file is proven to be intact and tamper free. In operation digital certificates issued by a certification authority are most often used to ensure authenticity of a digital signature.

Still further the security layer can employ contextual awareness e.g. context awareness component to enhance security. For example the contextual awareness component can be employed to monitor and detect criteria associated with data transmitted to and requested from the device . In operation these contextual factors can be used to filter spam control retrieval e.g. access to highly sensitive data from a public network or the like. It will be understood that in aspects the contextual awareness component can employ logic that regulates transmission and or retrieval of data in accordance with external criteria and factors. The contextual awareness employment can be used in connection with an artificial intelligence AI layer .

The AI layer or component can be employed to facilitate inferring and or determining when where how to dynamically vary the level of security and or the amount of echoing. Such inference results in the construction of new events or actions from a set of observed events and or stored event data whether or not the events are correlated in close temporal proximity and whether the events and data come from one or several event s and data source s .

The AI component can also employ any of a variety of suitable AI based schemes in connection with facilitating various aspects of the herein described innovation. Classification can employ a probabilistic and or statistical based analysis e.g. factoring into the analysis utilities and costs to prognose or infer an action that a user desires to be automatically performed. The AI layer can be used in conjunction with the security layer to infer changes in the data being transferred and make recommendations to the security layer as to what level of security to apply.

For example a support vector machine SVM classifier can be employed. Other classification approaches include Bayesian networks decision trees and probabilistic classification models providing different patterns of independence can be employed. Classification as used herein also is inclusive of statistical regression that is utilized to develop models of priority.

Additionally the sensor can be employed in conjunction with the security layer . Still further human authentication factors can be used to enhance security employing sensor . For instance biometrics e.g. fingerprints retinal patterns facial recognition DNA sequences handwriting analysis voice recognition can be employed to enhance authentication to control access of the storage vault. It will be understood that embodiments can employ multiple factor tests in authenticating identity of a user.

The sensor can also be used to provide the security layer with generalized non human metric data such as electromagnetic field condition data or predicted weather data etc. For example any conceivable condition can be sensed for and security levels can be adjusted or determined in response to the sensed condition.

It can also be appreciated that an object such as can be hosted on another computing device etc. or etc. Thus although the physical environment depicted can show the connected devices as computers such illustration is merely exemplary and the physical environment can alternatively be depicted or described comprising various digital devices such as PDAs televisions MP3 players etc. any of which can employ a variety of wired and wireless services software objects such as interfaces COM objects and the like.

There are a variety of systems components and network configurations that support distributed computing environments. For example computing systems can be connected together by wired or wireless systems by local networks or widely distributed networks. Currently many of the networks are coupled to the Internet which provides an infrastructure for widely distributed computing and encompasses many different networks. Any of the infrastructures can be used for exemplary communications made incident to optimization algorithms and processes according to the present innovation.

In home networking environments there are at least four disparate network transport media that can each support a unique protocol such as Power line data both wireless and wired voice e.g. telephone and entertainment media. Most home control devices such as light switches and appliances can use power lines for connectivity. Data Services can enter the home as broadband e.g. either DSL or Cable modem and are accessible within the home using either wireless e.g. HomeRF or 802.11A B G or wired e.g. Home PNA Cat 5 Ethernet even power line connectivity. Voice traffic can enter the home either as wired e.g. Cat 3 or wireless e.g. cell phones and can be distributed within the home using Cat 3 wiring. Entertainment media or other graphical data can enter the home either through satellite or cable and is typically distributed in the home using coaxial cable. IEEE 1394 and DVI are also digital interconnects for clusters of media devices. All of these network environments and others that can emerge or already have emerged as protocol standards can be interconnected to form a network such as an intranet that can be connected to the outside world by way of a wide area network such as the Internet. In short a variety of disparate sources exist for the storage and transmission of data and consequently any of the computing devices of the present innovation can share and communicate data in any existing manner and no one way described in the embodiments herein is intended to be limiting.

The Internet commonly refers to the collection of networks and gateways that utilize the Transmission Control Protocol Internet Protocol TCP IP suite of protocols which are well known in the art of computer networking. The Internet can be described as a system of geographically distributed remote computer networks interconnected by computers executing networking protocols that allow users to interact and share information over network s . Because of such wide spread information sharing remote networks such as the Internet have thus far generally evolved into an open system with which developers can design software applications for performing specialized operations or services essentially without restriction.

Thus the network infrastructure enables a host of network topologies such as client server peer to peer or hybrid architectures. The client is a member of a class or group that uses the services of another class or group to which it is not related. Thus in computing a client is a process i.e. roughly a set of instructions or tasks that requests a service provided by another program. The client process utilizes the requested service without having to know any working details about the other program or the service itself. In a client server architecture particularly a networked system a client is usually a computer that accesses shared network resources provided by another computer e.g. a server. In the illustration of as an example computers etc. can be thought of as clients and computers etc. can be thought of as servers where servers etc. maintain the data that is then replicated to client computers etc. although any computer can be considered a client a server or both depending on the circumstances. Any of these computing devices can be processing data or requesting services or tasks that can implicate the optimization algorithms and processes in accordance with at least one generalized non limiting embodiment.

A server is typically a remote computer system accessible over a remote or local network such as the Internet or wireless network infrastructures. The client process can be active in a first computer system and the server process can be active in a second computer system communicating with one another over a communications medium thus providing distributed functionality and allowing multiple clients to take advantage of the information gathering capabilities of the server. Any software objects utilized pursuant to the optimization algorithms and processes of at least one generalized non limiting embodiment can be distributed across multiple computing devices or objects.

Client s and server s communicate with one another utilizing the functionality provided by protocol layer s . For example HyperText Transfer Protocol HTTP is a common protocol that is used in conjunction with the World Wide Web WWW or the Web. Typically a computer network address such as an Internet Protocol IP address or other reference such as a Universal Resource Locator URL can be used to identify the server or client computers to each other. The network address can be referred to as a URL address. Communication can be provided over a communications medium e.g. client s and server s can be coupled to one another via TCP IP connection s for high capacity communication.

Thus illustrates an exemplary networked or distributed environment with server s in communication with client computer s via a network bus in which the herein described echoing or supporting one MBSFN with another MBSFN can be employed. In more detail a number of servers etc. are interconnected via a communications network bus which can be a LAN WAN intranet GSM network the Internet etc. with a number of client or remote computing devices etc. such as a portable computer handheld computer thin client networked appliance or other device such as a VCR TV oven light heater and the like in accordance with the present innovation. It is thus contemplated that the present innovation can apply to any computing device in connection with which it is desirable to communicate data over a network.

In a network environment in which the communications network bus is the Internet for example the servers etc. can be Web servers with which the clients etc. communicate via any of a number of known protocols such as HTTP. Servers etc. can also serve as clients etc. as can be characteristic of a distributed computing environment.

As mentioned communications can be wired or wireless or a combination where appropriate. Client devices etc. can or cannot communicate via communications network bus and can have independent communications associated therewith. For example in the case of a TV or VCR there can or cannot be a networked aspect to the control thereof. Each client computer etc. and server computer etc. can be equipped with various application program modules or objects etc. and with connections or access to various types of storage elements or objects across which files or data streams can be stored or to which portion s of files or data streams can be downloaded transmitted or migrated. Any one or more of computers etc. can be responsible for the maintenance and updating of a database or other storage element such as a database or memory for storing data processed or saved according to at least one generalized non limiting embodiment. Thus the present innovation can be utilized in a computer network environment having client computers etc. that can access and interact with a computer network bus and server computers etc. that can interact with client computers etc. and other like devices and databases .

As mentioned the innovation applies to any device wherein it can be desirable to communicate data e.g. to a mobile device. It should be understood therefore that handheld portable and other computing devices and computing objects of all kinds are contemplated for use in connection with the present innovation i.e. anywhere that a device can communicate data or otherwise receive process or store data. Accordingly the below general purpose remote computer described below in is but one example and the present innovation can be implemented with any client having network bus interoperability and interaction. Thus the present innovation can be implemented in an environment of networked hosted services in which very little or minimal client resources are implicated e.g. a networked environment in which the client device serves merely as an interface to the network bus such as an object placed in an appliance.

Although not required at least one generalized non limiting embodiment can partly be implemented via an operating system for use by a developer of services for a device or object and or included within application software that operates in connection with the component s of at least one generalized non limiting embodiment. Software can be described in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by one or more computers such as client workstations servers or other devices. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the innovation can be practiced with other computer system configurations and protocols.

With reference to an exemplary remote device for implementing at least one generalized non limiting embodiment includes a general purpose computing device in the form of a computer . Components of computer can include but are not limited to a processing unit a system memory and a system bus that couples various system components including the system memory to the processing unit . The system bus can be any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures.

Computer typically includes a variety of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by computer . By way of example and not limitation computer readable media can comprise computer storage media and communication media. Computer storage media includes volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CDROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by computer . Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media.

The system memory can include computer storage media in the form of volatile and or non volatile memory such as read only memory ROM and or random access memory RAM . A basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within computer such as during start up can be stored in memory . Memory typically also contains data and or program modules that are immediately accessible to and or presently being operated on by processing unit . By way of example and not limitation memory can also include an operating system application programs other program modules and program data.

The computer can also include other removable non removable volatile non volatile computer storage media. For example computer could include a hard disk drive that reads from or writes to non removable non volatile magnetic media a magnetic disk drive that reads from or writes to a removable non volatile magnetic disk and or an optical disk drive that reads from or writes to a removable non volatile optical disk such as a CD ROM or other optical media. Other removable non removable volatile non volatile computer storage media that can be used in the exemplary operating environment include but are not limited to magnetic tape cassettes flash memory cards digital versatile disks digital video tape solid state RAM solid state ROM and the like. A hard disk drive is typically connected to the system bus through a non removable memory interface such as an interface and a magnetic disk drive or optical disk drive is typically connected to the system bus by a removable memory interface such as an interface.

A user can enter commands and information into the computer through input devices such as a keyboard and pointing device commonly referred to as a mouse trackball or touch pad. Other input devices can include a microphone joystick game pad satellite dish scanner or the like. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit through user input and associated interface s that are coupled to the system bus but can be connected by other interface and bus structures such as a parallel port game port or a universal serial bus USB . A graphics subsystem can also be connected to the system bus . A monitor or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus via an interface such as output interface which can in turn communicate with video memory. In addition to a monitor computers can also include other peripheral output devices such as speakers and a printer which can be connected through output interface

The computer can operate in a networked or distributed environment using logical connections to one or more other remote computers such as remote computer which can in turn have media capabilities different from device . The remote computer can be a personal computer a server a router a network PC a peer device or other common network node or any other remote media consumption or transmission device and can include any or all of the elements described above relative to the computer . The logical connections depicted in include a network such local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN but can also include other networks buses. Such networking environments are commonplace in homes offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet.

When used in a LAN networking environment the computer is connected to the LAN through a network interface or adapter. When used in a WAN networking environment the computer typically includes a communications component such as a modem or other means for establishing communications over the WAN such as the Internet. A communications component such as a modem which can be internal or external can be connected to the system bus via the user input interface of input or other appropriate mechanism. In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computer or portions thereof can be stored in a remote memory storage device. It will be appreciated that the network connections shown and described are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers can be used.

Terminals are typically dispersed throughout the system and each terminal may be fixed or mobile. A terminal may also be called a mobile station user equipment a user device or some other terminology. A terminal may be a wireless device a cellular phone a personal digital assistant PDA a wireless modem card and so on. Each terminal may communicate with zero one or multiple base stations on the downlink and uplink at any given moment. The downlink or forward link refers to the communication link from the base stations to the terminals and the uplink or reverse link refers to the communication link from the terminals to the base stations.

For a centralized architecture a system controller couples to base stations and provides coordination and control for base stations . For a distributed architecture base stations may communicate with one another as needed. Data transmission on the forward link occurs from one access point to one access terminal at or near the maximum data rate that can be supported by the forward link and or the communication system. Additional channels of the forward link e.g. control channel may be transmitted from multiple access points to one access terminal. Reverse link data communication may occur from one access terminal to one or more access points.

Access terminal can additionally comprise memory that is operatively coupled to processor and that may store data to be transmitted received and the like. Memory can store information related to downlink resource scheduling protocols for evaluating the foregoing protocols for identifying un received portions of a transmission for determining an indecipherable transmission for transmitting a feedback message to an access point and the like.

It will be appreciated that the data store e.g. memory described herein can be either volatile memory or nonvolatile memory or can include both volatile and nonvolatile memory. By way of illustration and not limitation nonvolatile memory can include read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM electrically programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable PROM EEPROM or flash memory. Volatile memory can include random access memory RAM which acts as external cache memory. By way of illustration and not limitation RAM is available in many forms such as synchronous RAM SRAM dynamic RAM DRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM double data rate SDRAM DDR SDRAM enhanced SDRAM ESDRAM Synchlink DRAM SLDRAM and direct Rambus RAM DRRAM . The memory of the subject systems and methods is intended to comprise without being limited to these and any other suitable types of memory.

Receiver is further operatively coupled to multiplex antenna that can receive a scheduled correlation between one or more additional blocks of downlink transmission resources and a block of uplink transmission resources. A multiplex processor can include a multi digit. Further a calculation processor can receive a feedback probability function wherein the function limits a probability that a feedback message is provided by access terminal as described herein if the block of downlink transmission resources or data associated therewith is not received.

Access terminal still further comprises a modulator and a transmitter that transmits the signal to for instance a base station an access point another access terminal a remote agent etc. Although depicted as being separate from the processor it is to be appreciated that signal generator and indicator evaluator may be part of processor or a number of processors not shown .

What has been described above includes examples of one or more aspects. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components or methodologies for purposes of describing the aforementioned aspects but one of ordinary skill in the art may recognize that many further combinations and permutations of various aspects are possible. Accordingly the described aspects are intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the scope of the appended claims. Furthermore to the extent that the term includes is used in either the detailed description or the claims such term is intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as comprising is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim.

