---

title: Controlled access to a wireless network
abstract: Various arrangements for permitting a wireless device occasional access to a wireless network are described. Some arrangements for assigning a single MSISDN to multiple wireless devices are described. In such arrangements, the wireless devices may be associated with different visitor location registers. In some arrangements, a wireless device-initiated bearer service is initiated based on input from a remote system. In some arrangements, a wireless device is authenticated based on whether data needs to be sent to and/or received from the wireless device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09161296&OS=09161296&RS=09161296
owner: EVOLVING SYSTEMS, INC.
number: 09161296
owner_city: Englewood
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130625
---
This Application is a Divisional Applications and claims priority to co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 231 340 filed on Sep. 13 2011 and entitled CONTROLLED ACCESS TO A WIRELESS NETWORK. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 231 340 also is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 197 396 filed Aug. 25 2008 by Lopresti et al. entitled WIRELESS DEVICE ACTIVATION now U.S. Pat. No. 8 145 212 and claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 e of the filing date of provisional U.S. Patent Application Ser. No. 60 992 913 filed Dec. 6 2007 by Lopresti et al. and entitled WIRELESS DEVICE ACTIVATION. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 231 340 also is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 766 115 filed Apr. 23 2010 by Thorn et al. entitled OCCASIONAL ACCESS TO A WIRELESS NETWORK and claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 e of the filing date of provisional U.S. Patent Aplication No. 61 172 350 filed Apr. 24 2009 by Thorn et al. and entitled OCCASIONAL ACCESS TO A WIRELESS NETWORK. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 766 115 also claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 e of the filing date of provisional U.S. Patent Application No. 61 184 597 filed Jun. 5 2009 by Thorn et al. and entitled OCCASIONAL ACCESS TO A WIRELESS NETWORK the entire disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 231 340 also claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 382 324 filed Sep. 13 2010 entitled EXTENDED WIRELESS DEVICE ACTIVATION and claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 382 311 filed Sep. 13 2010 entitled EXTENDED OCCASIONAL ACCESS TO A WIRELESS NETWORK and also claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 387 101 filed Sep. 28 2010 entitled SEMI PERMANENT ACCESS TO A WIRELESS NETWORK and also claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 387 110 filed Sep. 28 2010 entitled CONTROLLED OCCASIONAL ACCESS TO A WIRELESS NETWORK the entire disclosures of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

In order to operate on a wireless network e.g. a GSM cellular network a wireless device e.g. a sensor configured to use a wireless network generally must be registered on the wireless network. To activate the wireless device on the wireless network a wireless provider generally undertakes a practice referred to herein as activation in which the wireless device is identified to the wireless network using an identifier such as an international mobile subscriber identifier IMSI or similar identifying number which in many cases is encoded on a subscriber identity module SIM of the wireless device. In a general sense this process involves creating a record for the device. In some cases the record comprises the identifying number as well as an addressing number e.g. a phone number for a wireless phone such as an international ISDN number MSISDN or similar number. This record identifies the device to the network and provides information about the capabilities of the device.

Some wireless devices may only intermittently need to access a wireless network. For example a sensor or meter that may need to periodically transmit data to a system may only need access to the wireless network once per day week or month. A assigning a permanent MSISDN may be inefficient if a limited number of MSISDNs may available for assignment. Other inefficiencies may also result from attempting to provide access to such wireless devices.

In some embodiments a method for occasional access by a wireless devices to a wireless network is presented. The method may include receiving a first request to attach to the wireless network from a first wireless device wherein the first request specifies a first international mobile subscriber identity IMSI . The method may include authenticating the wireless device. The method may include assigning a mobile subscriber integrated services digital network number MSISDN to the first wireless device. The method may include exchanging data with the wireless device via the wireless network. The method may include determining that the exchange of data with the wireless device is complete. The method may include in response to determining that the exchange of data with the wireless device is complete deprovisioning the wireless device from the wireless network wherein following being deprovisioned the wireless device cannot exchange data via the wireless network.

In some embodiments one or more of the following may be present Authenticating the wireless device may comprise authenticating by a detection device the wireless device wherein authentication is performed without communication with an authentication center AUC and a home location register HLR . While exchanging data with the wireless device via the wireless network an entry in a home location register HLR of the wireless network may not be present for the wireless device. Exchanging data with the wireless device may comprise sending data to the wireless device and receiving data from the wireless device. The method may include following deprovisioning the wireless device from the wireless network assigning the MSISDN to a second wireless device. Determining that the exchange of data with the wireless device is complete may be based on a message received from a third party system. The method may include transmitting provisioning information corresponding to the wireless device to a plurality of AUCs of the wireless network. The method may include receiving a response from at least one of the plurality of AUCs. Authenticating the wireless device may comprise selecting an AUC from the plurality of AUCs of the wireless network to receive authentication information corresponding to the wireless device based on a response time of the response of the AUC to the transmitted provisioning information. Authenticating the wireless device may comprise transmitting the authentication information corresponding to the wireless device to the selected AUC.

In some embodiments a method for using a mobile subscriber integrated services digital network number MSISDN in conjunction with multiple wireless devices is presented. The method may include receiving a first request to attach to a wireless network from a first wireless device wherein the first request specifies a first international mobile subscriber identity IMSI . The method may include determining the request corresponds to a first visitor location register VLR . The method may include assigning the MSISDN to the first wireless device. The method may include receiving a second request to attach to the wireless network from a second wireless device wherein the second request specifies a second IMSI different from the first IMSI. The method may include determining the request corresponds to a second VLR wherein the second VLR corresponds to a different geographic area than the first VLR. The method may include assigning the MSISDN to the second wireless device such that the first wireless device and the second wireless device are linked with the MSISDN concurrently.

In some embodiments one or more of the following may be present The method may include receiving from a third party computer system data to be delivered to the second wireless device wherein the data identifies the second wireless device. The method may include transmitting to the second wireless device at least some of the data. The data received from the third party computer system may specify the second IMSI. The data received from the third party computer system may specify the MSISDN and an identifier of the second VLR. The method may include after assigning the MSISDN to the second IMSI receiving data from the second wireless device. The method may include transferring the data to a third party computer system. The first wireless device and the second wireless device may be non mobile devices. The method may include determining the second wireless device is to be deprovisioned from accessing the wireless network. The method may include deprovisioning the second wireless device from accessing the wireless network wherein deprovisioning comprises revoking the MSISDN to the second wireless device such that the second wireless device is required to reattach to the wireless network for future communication using the wireless network. Determining the second wireless device is to be deprovisioned from accessing the wireless network may comprise determining at least a threshold period of time has elapsed. The method may include receiving from a third party computer system an indication that communication with the second wireless device is complete wherein determining the second wireless device is to be deprovisioned from accessing the wireless network is at least partially based on receiving the indication.

In some embodiments a method for communicating with a wireless device using a wireless device initiated bearer service is presented. The method may include receiving a request to attach to a wireless network from the wireless device wherein the request specifies an international mobile subscriber identity IMSI . The method may include assigning a mobile subscriber integrated services digital network number MSISDN to the IMSI. The method may include transmitting a wireless device initiated bearer service request to the wireless device via a first bearer service indicating that the wireless device initiated bearer service is to be initiated. The method may include receiving an indication that the wireless device has received the wireless device initiated bearer service request. The method may include transmitting to the wireless device data using the wireless device initiated bearer service.

In some embodiments one or more of the following may be present The MSISDN may not be concurrently assigned to a second wireless device. A second wireless device may correspond to a second visitor location register VLR different from a first VLR that corresponds to the wireless device. The device initiated bearer service may be general packet radio service GPRS . The method may include following receiving the request to attach to the wireless network from the wireless device comparing the IMSI to a blacklist of IMSIs. The method may include determining in response to the comparison that the wireless device associated with the IMSI is permitted access wherein assigning the MSISDN occurs at least partially in response to determining the IMSI is permitted access. The method may include following transmitting the data using the wireless device initiated bearer service determining the wireless device is to be deprovisioned from accessing the wireless network. The method may include deprovisioning the wireless device from accessing the wireless network wherein deprovisioning comprises revoking the MSISDN to the wireless device such that the wireless device is required to reattach to the wireless network for future communication using the wireless network. The wireless device may be non mobile.

In some embodiments a method for permitting access for communication to a wireless network by a wireless device is presented. The method may include receiving one or more identifiers that correspond to one or more wireless devices with which communication is requested from a third party computer system comprising an identifier of the wireless device. The method may include storing indications of the one or more identifiers of the one or more wireless devices. The method may include following storing the indications of the one or more identifiers of the one or more wireless devices receiving a request to attach to the wireless network from the wireless device wherein the request specifies an international mobile subscriber identity IMSI . The method may include in response to receiving the request comparing the identifier of the wireless device to the stored indications. The method may include determining based on the comparison to permit access to the wireless network. The method may include causing authentication of the wireless device.

In some embodiments one or more of the following may be present The method may include transmitting a message to the third party computer system indicating the wireless device is attached to the wireless network. The method may include receiving data from the third party computer system to deliver to the wireless device. The method may include transmitting the data to the wireless device. The method may include following transmitting the data to the wireless device determining the wireless device is to be deprovisioned from accessing the wireless network. The method may include deprovisioning the wireless device from accessing the wireless network wherein the wireless device is required to reattach to the wireless network for future communication via the wireless network. The wireless device may be a non mobile device.

Since only a limited number of MSISDNs may be available for assignment to wireless devices it may be efficient to have an MSISDN assigned to a wireless device approximately only when the wireless device needs to communicate using the wireless network. The wireless device may then be deprovisioned from the wireless network and the the assignment of the MSISDN to the wireless device may be revoked. The MSISDN may then be reassigned to another wireless device.

Such an arrangement may be particularly useful where the MSISDN of the wireless device is not being used by a human user. For example sensors may be common wireless devices that need to transmit data periodically using a wireless network without a user needing to dial the MSISDN. Rather than having a permanent MSISDN assigned to the wireless device an MSISDN may only be assigned when the wireless device temporarily attaches to the wireless network. After one or more predetermined conditions are satisfied such as a period of time has elapsed the sensor may be deprovisioned from the wireless network. Such deprovisioning may include revoking the assignment of the MSISDN to the wireless device. This MSISDN may then be assigned to another wireless device. As such a single MSISDN may be recycled and used for multiple wireless devices.

Such wireless devices may be non mobile. For example a sensor configured to use a wireless cellular network may be an electricity meter or gas meter that is stationary. While common mobile wireless devices may include laptops cellular phones tablet computers and ebook readers non mobile wireless devices may instead include sensors or other wireless devices that are expected to remain at a fixed location or within a fixed geographical area.

Since a non mobile wireless device may not be expected to move outside of a fixed geographical area the same MSISDN may be concurrently used by another non mobile wireless device in another region. Such regions may be defined by the regions of service of mobile switching centers MSCs and visitor location registers VLRs of the wireless network. Such regions may also be defined by the regions of service of SGSNs.

In some embodiments a wireless device may attempt to periodically attach to the wireless network. Such an attempt may result in a request for authentication information being routed from the MSC VLR associated with the location of the wireless device to a detection device associated with the wireless network. This routing may be based on the IMSI of the wireless device. The detection device may determine whether a third party system has requested that data be transmitted to and or received from the wireless device. If so the wireless device may be permitted to attach to the wireless network. If not the detection device may prevent the wireless device from attaching to the wireless network by returning a denial message such as a No Authentication Center AUC Entry message to the MSC VLR. Upon failing to attach the wireless device may cease trying to attach to the wireless network for a predetermined amount of time e.g. a day a week a month at which time the wireless device may again attempt to attach. As such authentication and assignment of an MSISDN may only occur when communication with the wireless device is requested by a third party system. As an example if the wireless device is a gas meter the third party system may be a gas metering system configured to periodically retrieve data from the gas meters and or push updates e.g. firmware updates to the gas meters.

In some embodiments communication with a wireless device using a wireless device initiated bearer service may be desired. For example general packet radio service GPRS may need to be initiated by the wireless device. As such a third party system that desires the wireless device initiated bearer service to be used may transmit a message to the wireless network such as a detection device of the wireless network indicating the wireless device the wireless device initiated bearer service is desired with. This message may be stored by the detection device until a wireless device attempts to attach. Based on the presence of the message the wireless device may be permitted to attach to the wireless network. The wireless network may then transmit a message to the wireless device that triggers the wireless device to initiate the wireless device initiated bearer service. Once the wireless device initiated bearer service has been initiated data may be exchanged between the wireless device and the third party using the wireless device initiated bearer service via the wireless network and or the detection device.

In one aspect the wireless device may operate on a wireless network referred to as a wide area cellular network including without limitation a Global System for Mobile telecommunications GSM network a code division multiple access CDMA network and or networks operating in accordance with any derivatives thereof such as General Packet Radio Service GPRS Enhanced Data rates for GSM Evolution EDGE CDMA2000 Universal Mobile Telecommunications Standard UMTS Wideband CDMA W CDMA High Speed Packet Access HPSA and Evolution Data Optimized EVDO technologies among others . While this document focuses on the use of an IMSI as an identifier specific to a SIM card of a wireless device it should be understood that similar systems and methods may be applied to other forms of identifiers.

In some embodiments when a wireless network receives a message requesting to attach to the wireless network from a wireless device assigned an IMSI number it may forward this message to a detection device which may be part of the wireless network or may be operated by a third party which selects a temporary MSISDN number for the IMSI and provides a profile for the wireless device to the wireless network and or more particularly the appropriate equipment such as a VLR and or visited MSC . This profile which contains the temporary MSISDN number provides the wireless device with sufficient access to the wireless network to complete a session such as to receive and or transmit data. An MSISDN may refer to a dialable number that a caller may dial to communicate with a wireless device.

The detection device may permit or block activation of a wireless device based on the IMSI of the wireless device s SIM card. If the IMSI of the wireless device that is the IMSI of the SIM card of the wireless device is listed in a blacklist that is accessible to the detection device activation of the wireless device associated with the IMSI may be blocked. Such a blacklist may be maintained manually and or automatically. An administrator may add and or remove IMSIs to and from the blacklist. IMSIs may automatically be added to and or removed from the blacklist based on one or more predefined rules. For example if a wireless device associated with an IMSI attempts to transmit above a threshold number of messages within a period of time the IMSI may be added to the blacklist.

The detection device in accordance with some embodiments may provide sufficient signaling support to allow the wireless network to register and manage the wireless device. In some embodiments authentication may be conducted by the detection device without accessing an AUC. In some embodiments during activation rather than having a single AUC provisioned two or more AUCs may be provisioned. The first AUC to complete the provisioning process may receive authentication information linked with a wireless device being activated. By provisioning multiple AUCs the latency during activation may be decreased because only one AUC may need to respond to the provisioning request.

Once a wireless device has been attached with the wireless network data may be transmitted to and or received from the wireless device. The data transmitted to and or received from the wireless device may terminate with the detection device or may be routed to and from a third party computer system. Such a third party computer system may be operated by some other entity such as the entity operating the wireless devices that data is being exchanged with. While the MSISDN of the wireless device may change one or more identifiers may be present that allow the detection device and or a third party system to address a wireless device. For instance the IMSI of the wireless device may not change and may be used for addressing the wireless device. Alternatively a separate identifier may be specified by the third party system that may be linked with the IMSI of the wireless device at the detection device. Further a combination of the MSISDN and an identifier of the MSC VLR that is servicing the wireless device may be used to address the wireless device.

While the following systems and methods discuss the use of IMSIs it should be understood that similar systems and method may be used with some other form of identifier and the description of IMSIs should not be interpreted as limiting.

Generally wireless device has associated therewith an identification number. The identification number may be specific to a wireless device or a SIM card of the wireless device. As such the identification number which may be an IMSI may not be the same as another IMSI of another wireless device configured to attach to wireless network . The IMSI may identify wireless device to the network and or an addressing number which may be but need not necessarily be an MSISDN which may be used by wireless network to address wireless device when communicating with wireless device .

In normal operation when an activated wireless device registers with wireless network e.g. wireless device is powered on enters the service area etc. it sends a message which is received at the base station controller usually via the base station . The message generally will include the IMSI of the SIM card of wireless device either explicitly or implicitly e.g. the base station controller will be able to ascertain the identification number and associate it with the message if necessary . For simplicity this phrase may be abbreviated to the IMSI of wireless device which should be interpreted to include the IMSI of the SIM card of a wireless device. The MSC or some other component of wireless network thus identifies the identification number of the wireless device and queries the HLR which returns to the MSC data about the wireless device . While this document for ease of description refers to communications between the MSC and other devices one skilled in the art will appreciate that in practice it is often either a visitor location register VLR which in many cases is collocated with the MSC the MSC itself and or some combination thereof that participates in such communications. Hence this document sometimes refers to the MSC and VLR collectively and references herein to operations involving the MSC should be considered to include operations that might involve a VLR as well. Such data can include the addressing number of wireless device as well as the capabilities of wireless device .

Typically a security key is used to secure communications between wireless device and the wireless network . This security key often implemented as a set of data triplets comprising a signed response session key and a random number is generated by the authentication center based on a shared secret stored in the wireless device often referred to as Ki and in a record in the authentication center . In a typical implementation the HLR forwards the query or at least the wireless device s identification number to the authentication center as well. The authentication center correlates the wireless device s identification number with the shared secret such that when provided the identification number the authentication center can generate the security key based on the shared secret for that wireless device and return it to the MSC which can use that data to authenticate the wireless device .

Once the MSC has obtained the data from the HLR and authenticated wireless device based on the security key wireless device is operable on wireless network . In this typical implementation however the activation process populates HLR and authentication center with data about wireless device including the identification number and shared secret. Hence if wireless device has not been activated neither HLR nor authentication center may contain records corresponding to the identification number of wireless device thereby preventing wireless device from registering with wireless network and thus rendering wireless device at least partially inoperable on wireless network .

In the illustrated embodiment detection device resides within wireless network while the activation system is outside wireless network although activation system is in communication either directly or indirectly with detection device as well as the HLR AUC and or MSC VLR . In various other arrangements detection device and or activation system may be either inside or outside wireless network and or may be in communication either through wireless network or otherwise with various components of the network. 

A mode of operation of embodiment and in particular detection device and activation system is described in detail below. In a general sense however a set of embodiments provides a detection device that is configured to act as a quasi HLR. In other words the detection device which is not an HLR and generally does not perform the functions of an HLR is configured to be seen by wireless network and in particular the MSC VLR as the HLR for an unactivated wireless device . Hence when unactivated wireless device attempts to register with wireless network MSC VLR queries detection device rather than HLR for data about wireless device . MSC VLR may query detection device instead of HLR based on the IMSI of wireless device . For example IMSIs in a particular range may be configured for routing to detection device . Detection device in turn may communicate with wireless device such as the assignment of a temporary MSISDN. Once communication with wireless device is complete wireless device may be deprovisioned from wireless network . Deprovisioning may include revoking the MSISDN of the wireless device thus freeing the MSISDN to be assigned to another wireless device in the same and or a different geographical area . In order for future communication via wireless network wireless device may be required to attempt to reattach to the wireless network.

In embodiment multiple base stations are illustrated. Base station is in communication with base station controller . Base station controller may be in communication with MSC VLR and or Serving GPRS Support Node SGSN wherein GPRS stands for General Packet Radio Service. Similarly base station is in communication with base station controller . Base station controller is in communication with MSC VLR and SGSN . Base station along with base station controller MSC VLR and SGSN may serve geographic region . Base station along with base station controller MSC VLR and SGSN may provide wireless service to geographic region . Base station may be in communication with one or more wireless devices such as wireless device . Wireless device may be a non mobile wireless device. Base station may be in communication with one or more wireless devices such as wireless device . Wireless device may also be a non mobile wireless device.

Since each of the illustrated wireless devices are non mobile it may be expected that each wireless device will not leave to geographic regions serviced by the corresponding base station. As such wireless device may be expected to remain within geographic region and not enter geographic region . As such the MSISDN assigned to wireless device may be the same MSISDN assigned to wireless device . This arrangement may be permissible as each wireless device is serviced by a different MSC VLR. As long as each wireless device is not expected to change geographic area a single MSISDN may be used by multiple wireless devices concurrently as long as each wireless device is serviced by a different MSC VLR. While illustrated embodiment shows two cells servicing different geographic areas it should be understood that many more geographic areas may be serviced by additional base stations that are communicatively connected with base station controllers MSC VLRs and SGSNs.

Some or all base station controllers of the wireless network may be in communication with an SGSN in addition to an MSC VLR. Use of GPRS via an SGSN may enable an increased amount and or rate of data to be transferred to and from a wireless device such as wireless device . Some bearer services may need to be initiated by the wireless device. Such bearer services are referred to as wireless device initiated bearer services. For instance GPRS may be a wireless device initiated bearer service.

In embodiment detection device is in communication with three third party systems. Each of these third party systems may represent computer systems. Each of third party systems may be operated by a different third party. Third party systems may be computer systems configured to transmit data to and or receive data from wireless devices. For example each third party system may be associated with one or more wireless devices configured to use the wireless network of . As an example third party system may be a gas metering system configured to gather readings from sensors using the wireless network. Each of these sensors may be a wireless device that may be at least temporarily provided access to the wireless network. As example wireless device may be a gas meter attached to a building.

A third party system may be able to provide an identifier of a particular wireless device that the third party system desires to communicate with. Messages to be transmitted to the wireless device may be received by detection device . For example detection device may execute an API that permits third party systems to communicate with the detection device. Detection device may provide an indication to the appropriate third party system when an associated wireless device has been permitted access to the wireless network. The third party system may then receive data from the wireless device and or transmit data to the wireless device. Such messages to be transmitted to and or received from the wireless device by a third party system may be at least temporarily stored by detection device . Detection device may only permit a wireless device to attach to the wireless network when the wireless device s associated third party system has requested communication with the wireless device.

While the MSISDN of a wireless device may periodically change another identifier may be used by a third party system to address the wireless device. For example an IMSI of the wireless device may not change. When a third party system desires to communicate with a particular wireless device the third party system may provide a request that indicates the IMSI of the wireless device to detection device . Based on the IMSI detection device may communicate with the appropriate wireless device. A third party system may also use an arbitrary identifier selected by the third party system or an operator of the third party system to identify the wireless device to detection device . Detection device may have sufficient data that indicates the IMSI of the wireless device indicated by the arbitrary identifier. In some embodiments a combination of an identifier of the MSC VLR servicing the wireless device and the wireless device s MSISDN may be used to identify the wireless device.

Various methods may be performed using the described systems. illustrates an embodiment of a method for assigning a single MSISDN to multiple wireless devices concurrently. Method may be performed in conjunction with system of . Method may also be performed using some other form of wireless network that permits an MSISDN to be assigned to multiple wireless devices. Each step of method may be performed by a computer system. More specifically each step of method may be performed by a wireless network that contains at least one detection device. In some embodiments the detection device may be external to the wireless network. Steps through of method may be performed by a detection device. The wireless devices of method may be non mobile wireless devices.

Prior to performing method the wireless network may be configured to accommodate the activation process. One method of configuring the wireless network is described in further detail in method of of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 197 396 previously incorporated by reference. At step a wireless device communicatively coupled with a SIM having an IMSI is detected by the wireless network. For example this may occur when the wireless device enters a service area of the wireless network or is turned on while within a service area of the wireless network.

At step a detection device may receive an authentication request. This authentication request may be routed to the detection device by the wireless network. The authentication request may be in the form of a send authentication information message received from an MSC and or VLR servicing the wireless device. The authentication request may result from the wireless device initially attempting to attach to the wireless network at step such as wireless network of or the wireless device of . The authentication request may be routed to the detection device based on the IMSI of the wireless device. For example a designated range of IMSIs may be routed by the wireless network to the detection device. The authentication request may contain the IMSI of the wireless device attempting to attach to the wireless network. While method discusses the use of an MSC and or VLR it should be understood that a Serving GPRS Suport Node SGSN may be used instead.

At step the IMSI received as part of the authentication request at step may be compared to a blacklist of IMSIs. Such a blacklist may list one or more IMSIs that are prohibited from being permitted access to the wireless network. As an example IMSIs of SIM cards that are known to be stolen may be listed on the blacklist. As such stolen prepaid phones may be prevented from being permitted access to the wireless network. The creation and modification of such a blacklist is described in more detail in reference to method of .

If the IMSI received as part of the authentication request matches an IMSI listed in the blacklist method may proceed to step . At step authentication and thus activation of the wireless device may be blocked by the detection device. As such the wireless device may not be permitted access for one or more uses on the wireless network. For example incoming and outgoing calls text messages and internet access may be blocked. Some services such as emergency services may be enabled. The detection device may return one or more messages to the MSC VLR that indicates that authentication of the wireless device associated with the IMSI is prohibited such as a No AUC Entry message. The detection device returning such messages to the MSC VLR may not require any interaction with an AUC and or an HLR of the wireless network.

If the IMSI received as part of the authentication request does not match an IMSI listed in the blacklist method may proceed to step . By the IMSI received as part of the authentication request at step not being present on the blacklist it may be determined that the IMSI and thus the associated wireless device is eligible for activation. While at step the IMSI received as part of the authentication request by the detection device is compared to a blacklist of IMSIs it should be understood that a similar comparison may be conducted to a whitelist of IMSIs. In such a comparison activation of the IMSI received as part of the authentication request at step may only be permitted if the received IMSI is affirmatively listed on the whitelist. Activation may be blocked if the IMSI is not listed on the whitelist.

One or more AUCs may be used for authentication. At step the detection device may request provisioning by one or more AUCs. This may involve one or more AUC entries being made for the IMSI associated with the wireless device. Before transmitting the authentication information to an AUC the detection device may wait for a response indicating that provisioning has been completed. As such authentication information may be held by the detection device until provisioning has been completed.

At step the authentication information may be transmitted to the first AUC that completes provisioning. For example at step the provisioning request may have been transmitted to multiple AUCs. However only one of these provisioning requests may need to be completed successfully in order to continue with the method . As such preference may be given to the first AUC to respond to the provisioning request. As such latency in completing the activation process may be improved. At step the fastest AUC to respond to the provisioning request of step may receive the authentication information. Therefore the AUC with the fastest response time to the request may be selected to be used for authentication. If one or more of the AUCs have been pre provisioned step may be performed following step by transmitting the authentication information to multiple AUCs. At step authentication may be performed by comparing the Ki values from the SIM card against those specified by the SIM card manufacturer which may already be stored in the AUC. In some embodiments the Ki values on the SIM card may be transmitted to multiple AUCs. As such if one AUC responded to the provisioning request sooner the authentication can be completed sooner thereby decreasing latency in activating the wireless device. If a timeout response is received from an AUC the authentication information may be forwarded to a different AUC.

In some embodiments rather than a provisioning request being performed involving one or more AUCs the detection device may perform the authentication directly. Such direct authentication may replace step of method . Authentication of the IMSI received by the detection device at step may be performed by the detection device. As such it may be possible for authentication to be performed by the detection device without interacting with an AUC or HLR. The detection device may return one or more messages to the MSCNLR that indicates the result of the authentication procedure. This authentication performed by the detection device may involve using the encrypted Ki values or some other encryption values associated with the IMSI received as part of the authentication request. Following such direct authentication one or more AUCs may be provisioned. The detection device may receive one or more location update messages from the MSC CLR associated with the wireless device being permitted access.

At step one or more location update messages may be received by the detection device. These location update messages may be received from the MSC VLR servicing the wireless device and may have been routed to the detection device based on the IMSI of the wireless device. An entry for the wireless device may be created in the VLR servicing the wireless device.

At step an MSISDN may be assigned to the wireless device. This MSISDN may be permanent or temporary. The MSISDN selected by the detection device may be based upon the MSC VLR that is servicing the wireless device. The same MSISDN may be used by multiple wireless devices. However each of the wireless devices using the same MSISDN may be serviced by different MSC VLRs. Accordingly each MSC VLR may service only one wireless device associated with a particular MSISDN. Therefore an MSISDN that has not been assigned to a wireless device that is being serviced by a particular MSC VLR may be selected. Accordingly the wireless device has a unique MSISDN at least within the service area of the MSC VLR. Other wireless devices may have the same MSISDN but each such wireless device is serviced by different MSC VLRs. Two three four five or some greater number of wireless devices may each be associated with the same MSISDN.

At step an insert subscriber data message may be transmitted to the appropriate MSC VLR. This message may identify various services that the wireless device is capable of such as receiving and or sending SMS messages emergency services placing and or receiving phone calls and or web services. Following step the wireless device may be permitted to use the bearer services that were identified by the insert subscriber data message.

At step an indication may be transmitted to a third party system associated with the wireless device that indicates the wireless device is attached to the wireless network. The detection device may select a third party system to notify based on the IMSI of the wireless device the combination of the MSISDN and the MSC VLR servicing the wireless device or some other identifier that links the wireless device with a particular third party. An application programming interface API of the detection device may be used to provide such an indication to the third party.

At step data from the wireless device may be received by the detection device. This may be data that the wireless device is programmed to transmit periodically. For example if the wireless device is a gas meter the wireless device may be programmed to provide data indicating the amount of gas that has passed through the gas meter. The data received from the wireless device may be received via a bearer service such as SMS short message service or USSD unstructured supplementary service data .

At step this data received from the wireless device may be provided to the third party system. This third party system may serve as some form of centralized logging and or monitoring system. As such the third party system may obtain similar data from a large number of wireless devices such as 10 100 or 1000 wireless devices. When provided to the third party system this data may be identified by an identifier specific to the wireless device such as the wireless device s IMSI a combination of the device s MSISDN and indication of the MSC VLR servicing the wireless device or some other identifier which may have been specified by the third party system. Providing the data to the third party system may involve the data being automatically transmitted to the third party system by the detection device. In some embodiments the data may be made available for retrieval e.g. downloading by the third party system.

At step data from the third party system may be received that is intended to be transmitted to the wireless device. This data may be identified by an identifier specific to the wireless device such as the wireless device s IMSI a combination of the wireless device s MSISDN and indication of the MSC VLR servicing the wireless device or some other identifier which may have been specified by the third party system. Such data may be received via an API of the detection device. At step the data or some portion thereof may be transmitted to the wireless device. The bearer service used to transmit data to the wireless device may be the same or may be different from the bearer service used by the wireless device to transmit data that was received at step .

In some embodiments following the third party system receiving the notification at step that the wireless device is attached to the wireless network the detection device may serve as an intermediary between the third party system and the wireless device. As such data including commands may be routed back and forth by the detection device between the third party system and the wireless device.

In some embodiments method may cease after step . The MSISDN assigned to the wireless device at step may remain assigned to the wireless device. Therefore this MSISDN may be considered a permanent MSISDN because the MSISDN is not released following the conclusion of the data exchange session. In some embodiments step may be performed. In step the wireless device may be deprovisioned. Deprovisioning may involve the temporary MSISDN assigned to the wireless device being revoked such that the MSISDN is no longer assigned to the wireless device. For the wireless device to communicate using the wireless network in the future the wireless device may be required to reattach to the wireless network such as by repeating the previous steps of method . Deprovisioning may involve the wireless device being deprovisioned from the MSC VLR and if present an SGSN.

Whether the wireless device is deprovisioned at step may be based on one or more predefined rules being satisfied. For example a rule may specify that the wireless device is deprovisioned following a predefined period of time having elapsed. Another rule may indicate that the wireless device is deprovisioned based on a command received from the third party system associated with the wireless device. As an example of this the wireless device may transmit a set of stored data to the third party system. Within this data may be an indication that all requested data has been transferred. The indication may be interpreted by the third party system. In response to the indication the third party system may notify the detection device that the wireless device can now be deprovisioned. In some embodiments rather than requiring such an indication to be interpreted by the third party system the wireless device may provide a similar indication directly to the detection device. As another example of a rule the detection device may detect that a wireless device has completed transmitting data based on a period of time in which no data has been transferred between the wireless device the detection device and or the associated third party system.

At step an MSISDN may be assigned to the wireless device. This MSISDN may be permanent or temporary. The MSISDN selected by the detection device may be based upon the MSC VLR that is servicing the wireless device. The same MSISDN may be used by multiple wireless devices. However each of the wireless devices using the same MSISDN may be serviced by different MSC VLRs. Accordingly each MSC VLR may service only one wireless device associated with a particular MSISDN. Therefore an MSISDN that has not been assigned to a wireless device that is serviced by a particular MSC VLR may be selected. Accordingly the wireless device has a unique MSISDN at least within the service area of the MSC VLR. Another wireless device may have the same MSISDN but is serviced by a different MSC VLR. In some embodiments the MSISDN assigned at step may be specific to only the wireless device and may not be assigned to multiple wireless devices. Steps and may correspond to steps and of method respectively.

Following attachment to the wireless network data may be transmitted from the wireless device to the detection device using a first bearer service such as the USSD or SMS. Similarly data may be transmitted to the wireless device using the first bearer service. Such data transmission may be similar to steps through of method . Following transmission of and or reception of data using the first bearer service another bearer service may be used for additional data. For example a different bearer service may be desired due to limits on the rate and or amount of data that can be transmitted via the first bearer service. For example data transmitted via SMS may be limited to very few characters such as per message.

At step a request may be received from a third party system indicating that a wireless device initiated bearer service is to be used. The indication may identify the wireless device using an identifier specific to the wireless device such as the wireless device s IMSI a combination of the device s MSISDN and indication of the MSC VLR servicing the wireless device or some other identifier which may have been specified by the third party system.

At step an instruction to the wireless device may be transmitted to activate a wireless device initiated bearer service. This instruction to activate the wireless device initiated bearer service may occur via the first bearer service. As an example an SMS text message may be sent from a third party system via the detection device to the wireless device indicating that the wireless device initiated bearer service should be started. A wireless device initiated bearer service may only be initiated by a wireless device. As such a third party system or the detection device may be unable to initiate the wireless device initiated bearer service e.g. GPRS packet data unilaterally.

At step an acknowledgement may be received from the wireless device that indicates the request for the wireless device initiated bearer service has been received. This acknowledgment may be sent using the first bearer service. Following transmitting the acknowledgment the wireless device may attempt to attach with the appropriate systems to utilize the wireless device initiated bearer service. For example referring to wireless device may attempt to attach with SGSN in order to send and or receive GPRS packet data which may be a wireless device initiated bearer service. The wireless device may then attach to the wireless network via the SGSN or whatever the appropriate component for the wireless device initiated bearer service using an attachment process as detailed in relation to method steps through or in relation to method steps through wherein attachment occurs via the SGSN rather than the MSC VLR.

At step data may be exchanged using the wireless device initiated bearer service. As such data transmitted by a third party system may be sent to the wireless device via the detection device and or data from the wireless device may be transmitted to the third party system via the detection device.

At step the wireless device may be deprovisioned. Deprovisioning may involve an MSISDN assigned to the wireless device being revoked such that the MSISDN is no longer assigned to the wireless device. Deprovisioning the wireless devices may involve the wireless device being deprovisioned to use either the first bearer service the wireless device initiated bearer service or both. For the wireless device to communicate using the wireless network in the future the wireless device may be required to reattach to the wireless network such as by repeating at least portions of method or method . Deprovisioning may involve the wireless device being deprovisioned from the MSC VLR and or the SGSN.

Whether the wireless device is deprovisioned at step may be based on one or more predefined rules being satisfied. For example a rule may specify that the wireless device is deprovisioned following a period of time having elapsed. Another rule may indicate that the wireless device is deprovisioned based on a command received from the third party system associated with the wireless device. As an example of this the wireless device may transmit a set of stored data to the third party system. Within this data may be an indication that all necessary data has been transferred. The indication may be interpreted by the third party system. In response to the indication the third party system may notify the detection device that the wireless device can now be deprovisioned. In some embodiments rather than requiring such an indication to be interpreted by the third party system the wireless device may provide a similar indication directly to the detection device. As another example of a rule the detection device may detect that a wireless device has completed transmitting data based on a period of time which no data has been transferred between the wireless device the detection device and or the associated third party system.

At step an indication of one or more wireless devices that a third party system requests to communicate with may be received. The third party system may desire to communicate with each of these wireless devices to receive data from and or to transmit data to the wireless devices. When provided to the detection device the indication may identify a wireless device such as the wireless device s IMSI a combination of the device s MSISDN and indication of the MSC VLR servicing the wireless device or some other identifier which may have been specified by the third party system. Also at step data to be transmitted to each of the wireless devices may be received from the third party system. Steps may correspond to steps through of method .

At step a determination may be made as to whether an indication of the wireless device has been received. If an indication indicating the wireless device that attempted to connect to the wireless network at step was received at step the determination at step may be yes. However if no indication of the wireless device that attempted to attach to the wireless network at step was received at step the determination at step may be no.

If the determination is no method may proceed to step . As such authentication of the wireless device may be blocked. In response to the authentication being blocked the detection device may reply to the authentication request of step with a denial. For instance the denial message may indicate No AUC entry. As such the wireless device may abandon attempting to attach with the wireless network at least temporarily. The wireless device may be configured to attempt to reattach the wireless network after some predefined period of time. By way of example only the wireless device may attempt to reattach the wireless network hourly daily weekly or monthly.

Accordingly the wireless device may only be permitted to attach with the wireless network when a third party system has provided an indication that communication with the wireless device is requested. Such request may also be generated by the detection device. A listing of multiple wireless devices which may correspond to multiple different third parties may be maintained in a data storage structure such as a database accessible by the detection device. This listing of multiple wireless devices may be used to determine whether the wireless devices are permitted to attach the wireless network or not.

One or more AUCs may be used for authentication. At step the detection device may request provisioning by one or more AUCs. This may involve one or more AUC entries being made for the IMSI associated with the wireless device. Before transmitting the authentication information to an AUC the detection device may wait for a response indicating that provisioning has been completed. As such authentication information may be held by the detection device until provisioning has been completed.

At step the authentication information may be transmitted to the first AUC that completes provisioning. For example at step the provisioning request may have been transmitted to multiple AUCs. However only one of these provisioning requests may need to be completed successfully in order to continue with the method . As such preference may be given to the first AUC to respond to the provisioning request. As such latency in completing the activation process may be decreased. At step the fastest AUC to respond to the provisioning request of step may be transmitted to the authentication information. Therefore the AUC with the fastest response time to the request may be selected to be used for authentication. If one or more of the AUCs has been pre provisioned step may be performed following step by transmitting the authentication information to multiple AUCs. At step authentication may be performed by comparing the Ki values from the SIM card against those specified by the SIM card manufacturer which may already be stored in the AUC. In some embodiments the Ki values on the SIM card may be transmitted to multiple AUCs. As such if one AUC responded to the provisioning request faster the authentication can be performed sooner just decreasing latency in activating the wireless device. If a timeout response is received from an AUC the authentication information may be forwarded to a different AUC.

In some embodiments rather than a provisioning request being performed involving one or more AUCs the detection device may perform the authentication directly. Such direct authentication may replace step of method . The request for authentication of the IMSI received by the detection device at step may be performed by the detection device. As such it may be possible for authentication to be performed by the detection device without interacting with an AUC or HLR. The detection device may return one or more messages to the MSC VLR that indicates the result of the authentication procedure. An AUC may be contacted for provisioning. This authentication performed by the detection device may involve using the encrypted Ki values or some other encryption values associated with the IMSI received as part of the authentication request. The detection device may receive one or more location update messages from the MSC VLR associated with the wireless device being permitted access.

At step one or more location update messages may be received by the detection device. These location update messages may be received from the MSC VLR servicing the wireless device and may have been routed to the detection device based on the IMSI of the wireless device.

At step an MSISDN may be assigned to the wireless device. This MSISDN may be permanent or temporary. The MSISDN selected by the detection device may be based upon the MSC VLR that is servicing the wireless device. The same MSISDN may be used by multiple wireless devices. However each of the wireless devices using the same

MSISDN may be serviced by different MSC VLRs. Accordingly each MSC VLR may service only one wireless device associated with a particular MSISDN. Therefore an MSISDN that has not been assigned to a wireless device that is being serviced by a particular MSC VLR may be selected. Accordingly the wireless device has a unique MSISDN at least within the service area of the MSC VLR. Other wireless devices may have the same MSISDN but each such wireless device is serviced by a different MSC VLR. Two three four five or some greater number of wireless devices may be associated with the same MSISDN concurrently. In some embodiments the MSISDN assigned at step is particular to only the wireless device and is not also used by other wireless devices.

At step an insert subscriber data message may be transmitted to the appropriate MSC VLR. This message may identify various services that the wireless device is capable of such as receiving and or sending SMS messages emergency services placing and or receiving phone calls and or web services. Following step the wireless device may be permitted to use the bearer services that were identified by the insert subscriber data message.

At step an indication may be transmitted to a third party system associated with the wireless device that indicates the wireless device is attached to the wireless network. The detection device may select a third party system to notify based on the IMSI of the wireless device the combination of the MSISDN and the MSC VLR servicing the wireless device or some other identifier that links the wireless device with a particular third party.

An application programming interface API of the detection device may be used to provide such an indication to the third party.

At step data from the wireless device may be received by the detection device. This may be data that the wireless device is programmed to transmit periodically. For example if the wireless device is a gas meter the wireless device may be programmed to provide data indicating the amount of gas that has passed through the gas meter. The data received from the wireless device may be received via a bearer service such as SMS short message service or USSD unstructured supplementary service data .

At step this data received from the wireless device may be provided to the third party system. This third party system may serve as some form of centralized logging and or monitoring system. As such the third party system may obtain similar data from a large number of wireless devices such as 10 100 or 1000 wireless devices. When provided to the third party system this data may be identified by an identifier specific to the wireless device such as the wireless device s IMSI a combination of the device s MSISDN and indication of the MSC VLR servicing the wireless device or some other identifier which may have been specified by the third party system. Providing the data to the third party system may involve the data being automatically transmitted to the third party system by the detection device. In some embodiments the data may be made available for retrieval e.g. downloading via an API by the third party system.

At step data from the third party system may be received that is intended to be transmitted to the wireless device. This data may be identified by an identifier specific to the wireless device such as the wireless device s IMSI a combination of the wireless device s MSISDN and indication of the MSC VLR servicing the wireless device or some other identifier which may have been specified by the third party system. Such data may be received via an API of the detection device. This data may have already been received with the indication of the wireless device with which communication was desired at step . At step the data or some portion thereof may be transmitted to the wireless device. The bearer service used to transmit data to the wireless device may be the same or may be different from the bearer service used by the wireless device to transmit data that was received at step .

In some embodiments following the third party system receiving the notification at step that the wireless device is attached to the wireless network the detection device may serve as an intermediary between the third party system and the wireless device. As such data including commands may be routed back and forth by the detection device between the third party system and the wireless device.

The MSISDN assigned to the wireless device at step may remain assigned to the wireless device. Therefore this MSISDN may be considered a permanent MSISDN because the MSISDN is not released following the conclusion of the data exchange session.

In some embodiments step may be performed. In step the wireless device may be deprovisioned. Deprovisioning may involve the temporary MSISDN assigned to the wireless device being revoked such that the MSISDN is no longer assigned to the wireless device. For the wireless device to communicate using the wireless network in the future the wireless device may be required to reattach to the wireless network such as by transmitting another attempt to attach to the wireless network. Deprovisioning may involve the wireless device being deprovisioned from the MSC VLR and or an SGSN. Whether the wireless device is deprovisioned at step may be based on rules as previously discussed in relation to methods and .

Method may be performed in conjunction with wireless network of . Method may also be performed by some other wireless network that has or is in communication with a detection device such as detection device of . Each step of method may performed by such a detection device which may comprise one or more computer systems such as computer system of . The detection device may be part of the wireless network or may be in communication with the wireless network but operated by a third party. Each step of method may be performed by a detection device. Various means for performing method include a detection device which may include one or more computer systems.

IMSIs to a blacklist. For example at step if one or more wireless devices and or SIM cards were stolen IMSIs associated with those wireless devices and or SIM cards may be blocked from having access to a wireless network by being added to the blacklist. The IMSIs of the blacklist may be temporary and or permanent IMSIs. At step in response to the command received at step the one or more IMSIs received from the administrator may be added to the blacklist.

At step one or more IMSIs may be added automatically to the blacklist without receiving a command directly from the administrator. For example based on violation of one or more predetermined rules an IMSI may automatically be added to the blacklist. At step in accordance with one or more rules an IMSI may be added to the blacklist. As an example if a wireless device that corresponds with an IMSI attempts to send a number of signaling messages over a predefined threshold number it may be determined that this IMSI should be added to the blacklist. Other rules may be possible for determining whether an IMSI should be added to the blacklist.

It may also be possible to manually remove IMSIs from the blacklist. At step a command may be received from the administrator to remove one or more IMSIs from the blacklist. At step in response to the command received at step the one or more IMSIs specified may be removed from the blacklist.

While method details the use of a blacklist it should be understood that a whitelist may be used instead. In a whitelist rather than adding IMSIs that are to be blocked to the list IMSIs that are to be permitted access may be added to the whitelist. As such if an IMSI is to be blocked from being permitted access the IMSI may be removed from the whitelist. Further it should be understood that the steps of method may be performed in varying orders. For example the administrator may remove one or more IMSIs from the blacklist without adding other IMSIs to the blacklist first.

A computer system as illustrated in may incorporate as part of the previously described computerized devices. For example computer system can represent some of the components of the wireless devices wireless networks detection devices third party systems SGSNs MSC VLRs BSCs HLRs and or activation systems. It should be noted that is meant only to provide a generalized illustration of various components any or all of which may be utilized as appropriate. therefore broadly illustrates how individual system elements may be implemented in a relatively separated or relatively more integrated manner.

The computer system is shown comprising hardware elements that can be electrically coupled via a bus or may otherwise be in communication as appropriate . The hardware elements may include one or more processors including without limitation one or more general purpose processors and or one or more special purpose processors such as digital signal processing chips graphics acceleration processors and or the like one or more input devices which can include without limitation a mouse a keyboard and or the like and one or more output devices which can include without limitation a display device a printer and or the like.

The computer system may further include and or be in communication with one or more non transitory storage devices which can comprise without limitation local and or network accessible storage and or can include without limitation a disk drive a drive array an optical storage device solid state storage device such as a random access memory RAM and or a read only memory ROM which can be programmable flash updateable and or the like. Such storage devices may be configured to implement any appropriate data stores including without limitation various file systems database structures and or the like.

The computer system might also include a communications subsystem which can include without limitation a modem a network card wireless or wired an infrared communication device a wireless communication device and or chipset such as a Bluetooth device an 802.11 device a WiFi device a WiMax device cellular communication facilities etc. and or the like. The communications subsystem may permit data to be exchanged with a network such as the network described below to name one example other computer systems and or any other devices described herein. In many embodiments the computer system will further comprise a working memory which can include a RAM or ROM device as described above.

The computer system also can comprise software elements shown as being currently located within the working memory including an operating system device drivers executable libraries and or other code such as one or more application programs which may comprise computer programs provided by various embodiments and or may be designed to implement methods and or configure systems provided by other embodiments as described herein. Merely by way of example one or more procedures described with respect to the method s discussed above might be implemented as code and or instructions executable by a computer and or a processor within a computer in an aspect then such code and or instructions can be used to configure and or adapt a general purpose computer or other device to perform one or more operations in accordance with the described methods.

A set of these instructions and or code might be stored on a non transitory computer readable storage medium such as the storage device s described above. In some cases the storage medium might be incorporated within a computer system such as computer system . In other embodiments the storage medium might be separate from a computer system e.g. a removable medium such as a compact disc and or provided in an installation package such that the storage medium can be used to program configure and or adapt a general purpose computer with the instructions code stored thereon. These instructions might take the form of executable code which is executable by the computer system and or might take the form of source and or installable code which upon compilation and or installation on the computer system e.g. using any of a variety of generally available compilers installation programs compression decompression utilities etc. then takes the form of executable code.

It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that substantial variations may be made in accordance with specific requirements. For example customized hardware might also be used and or particular elements might be implemented in hardware software including portable software such as applets etc. or both. Further connection to other computing devices such as network input output devices may be employed.

As mentioned above in one aspect some embodiments may employ a computer system such as the computer system to perform methods in accordance with various embodiments of the invention. According to a set of embodiments some or all of the procedures of such methods are performed by the computer system in response to processor executing one or more sequences of one or more instructions which might be incorporated into the operating system and or other code such as an application program contained in the working memory . Such instructions may be read into the working memory from another computer readable medium such as one or more of the storage device s . Merely by way of example execution of the sequences of instructions contained in the working memory might cause the processor s to perform one or more procedures of the methods described herein.

The terms machine readable medium and computer readable medium as used herein refer to any medium that participates in providing data that causes a machine to operate in a specific fashion. In an embodiment implemented using the computer system various computer readable media might be involved in providing instructions code to processor s for execution and or might be used to store and or carry such instructions code. In many implementations a computer readable medium is a physical and or tangible storage medium. Such a medium may take the form of a non volatile media or volatile media. Non volatile media include for example optical and or magnetic disks such as the storage device s . Volatile media include without limitation dynamic memory such as the working memory .

Common forms of physical and or tangible computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape or any other magnetic medium a CD ROM any other optical medium punchcards papertape any other physical medium with patterns of holes a RAM a PROM EPROM a FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge or any other medium from which a computer can read instructions and or code.

Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying one or more sequences of one or more instructions to the processor s for execution. Merely by way of example the instructions may initially be carried on a magnetic disk and or optical disc of a remote computer. A remote computer might load the instructions into its dynamic memory and send the instructions as signals over a transmission medium to be received and or executed by the computer system .

The communications subsystem and or components thereof generally will receive signals and the bus then might carry the signals and or the data instructions etc. carried by the signals to the working memory from which the processor s retrieves and executes the instructions. The instructions received by the working memory may optionally be stored on a storage device either before or after execution by the processor s .

The methods systems and devices discussed above are examples. Various configurations may omit substitute or add various procedures or components as appropriate. For instance in alternative configurations the methods may be performed in an order different from that described and or various stages may be added omitted and or combined. Also features described with respect to certain configurations may be combined in various other configurations. Different aspects and elements of the configurations may be combined in a similar manner. Also technology evolves and thus many of the elements are examples and do not limit the scope of the disclosure or claims.

Specific details are given in the description to provide a thorough understanding of example configurations including implementations . However configurations may be practiced without these specific details. For example well known circuits processes algorithms structures and techniques have been shown without unnecessary detail in order to avoid obscuring the configurations. This description provides example configurations only and does not limit the scope applicability or configurations of the claims. Rather the preceding description of the configurations will provide those skilled in the art with an enabling description for implementing described techniques. Various changes may be made in the function and arrangement of elements without departing from the spirit or scope of the disclosure.

Also configurations may be described as a process which is depicted as a flow diagram or block diagram. Although each may describe the operations as a sequential process many of the operations can be performed in parallel or concurrently. In addition the order of the operations may be rearranged. A process may have additional steps not included in the figure. Furthermore examples of the methods may be implemented by hardware software firmware middleware microcode hardware description languages or any combination thereof When implemented in software firmware middleware or microcode the program code or code segments to perform the necessary tasks may be stored in a non transitory computer readable medium such as a storage medium. Processors may perform the described tasks.

Having described several example configurations various modifications alternative constructions and equivalents may be used without departing from the spirit of the disclosure. For example the above elements may be components of a larger system wherein other rules may take precedence over or otherwise modify the application of the invention. Also a number of steps may be undertaken before during or after the above elements are considered. Accordingly the above description does not bound the scope of the claims.

