---

title: Mobile presence detection
abstract: Novel tools and techniques for collecting and using presence information. In accordance with some techniques, a presence detection device (“PDD”) at a customer premises and/or another computer (such as a control server) can identify and/or authenticate a user. Once identified and/or authenticated, the user's profiles and/or media content may be sent to the PDD, and/or access to the user's profiles and/or media content may be provided to the PDD.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09310977&OS=09310977&RS=09310977
owner: Biscotti Inc.
number: 09310977
owner_city: Plano
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131213
---
This application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 e of the following applications provisional U.S. Patent Application No. 61 877 928 filed Sep. 13 2013 by Ahmed et al. and titled Mobile Presence Detection referred to herein as the 928 application provisional U.S. Patent Application No. 61 874 903 filed Sep. 6 2013 by Shoemake et al. and titled Virtual Window referred to herein as the 903 application provisional U.S. Patent Application No. 61 872 603 filed Aug. 30 2013 by Shoemake et al. and titled Physical Presence and Advertising referred to herein as the 603 application provisional U.S. Patent Application No. 61 858 518 filed Jul. 25 2013 by Shoemake et al. and titled Video Calling and Conferencing Advertising referred to herein as the 518 application provisional U.S. Patent Application No. 61 759 621 filed Feb. 1 2013 by Shoemake et al. and titled Video Mail Capture Processing and Distribution referred to herein as the 621 application and provisional U.S. Patent Application No. 61 737 506 filed Dec. 14 2012 by Shoemake et al. and titled Video Capture Processing and Distribution System referred to herein as the 506 application . This application may also be related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 106 360 filed on a date even herewith by Ahmed et al. and titled Distributed Infrastructure referred to herein as the Distributed Infrastructure Application and to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 106 263 filed on a date even herewith by Ahmed et al. and titled Video Capture Processing and Distribution .

The respective disclosures of these applications patents which this document refers to collectively as the Related Applications are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety for all purposes.

A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material that is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent file or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever.

The present disclosure relates in general to tools and techniques for detecting the physical presence of a user near a user device and delivering content services or other user information to that user based on the detected presence.

Video calling also called video conferencing is a promising technology to allow friends and family to interact both aurally and visually even when far apart. There are professional grade systems such as those available from POLYCOM and others but such professional grade systems require complex hardware that is both prohibitively expensive and difficult to use.

At the other end of the spectrum lie solutions based on a personal computer PC such as web cams and video chat software available from SKYPE and others. While relatively inexpensive however such PC based solutions have several shortcomings of their own. As an initial matter the call quality of a video call using such solutions is far from optimal and the software and hardware required to implement them can be confusing and error prone. Perhaps more importantly such solutions tether the user to a personal computer which is often located in an office or study and they generally therefore cannot provide an inclusive experience for an entire family.

More recently several solutions have emerged to address this need. For example the Biscotti device available from Biscotti Inc. provides an inexpensive tool to allow video calling using a high definition television and an Internet connection. More generally a class of devices which have been described as video calling devices but are referred to herein as video communication devices or VCD can be simultaneously connected to a display such as a television to name one example and a source of content such as a set top box STB to name an example in a pass through configuration and can have a network connection and or sensors such as a camera a microphone infrared sensors and or other suitable sensors. Such devices present a powerful platform for various applications. Examples include without limitation video calling instant messaging presence detection status updates media streaming over the Internet web content viewing gaming and DVR capability.

Such platforms and capabilities provide additional opportunities for enhanced applications such as those described in further detail below.

A set of embodiments provides tools and techniques to detect the presence of a user and deliver content services or other information to that user e.g. to the device that detected the presence of the user based on the detected presence. In an aspect of some embodiments this presence detection can be performed automatically requiring no interaction from the user at all other than being sensed by the sensors used for presence detection . Hence for example a user upon standing in front of a presence detection device PDD could have some or all of the content owned by that user downloaded to that PDD without requiring any action by the user at all. Such content might be stored on a user device at the user s home and accessed through the cloud and or it might be stored in the cloud such as in a cloud storage system or the like .

The tools provided by various embodiments include without limitation methods systems and or software products. Merely by way of example a method might comprise one or more procedures any or all of which are executed by a PDD and or a computer system. Correspondingly an embodiment might provide a PDD and or a computer system configured with instructions to perform one or more procedures in accordance with methods provided by various other embodiments. Similarly a computer program might comprise a set of instructions that are executable by a PDD and or a computer system and or a processor therein to perform such operations. In many cases such software programs are encoded on physical tangible and or non transitory computer readable media such as to name but a few examples optical media magnetic media and or the like .

In one aspect a method might comprise collecting presence information with a first presence detection device PDD . In some instances the first PDD might comprise a video input interface to receive video input from a local content source which in some embodiments might include a set top box STB and or the like an audio input interface to receive audio input from the local content source a video output interface to provide video output to a video display device an audio output interface to provide audio output to an audio receiver a video capture device to capture at least one of image data or video data an audio capture device to capture audio data a network interface at least one processor and a storage medium in communication with the at least one processor. The method might further comprise detecting presence of a user with the first PDD based at least in part on the presence information. In some cases the method might comprise identifying the user with a first computer based at least in part on identifying information derived from at least a portion of the presence information and delivering user information to the user with a second computer based on the detected presence of the identified user.

In some instances the video input interface and the audio input interface might both be embodied as a first high definition multimedia interface HDMI port communicatively coupled to the local content source via a first HDMI cable. Similarly the video output interface and the audio output interface might both be embodied as a second HDMI port communicatively coupled to the video display device via a second HDMI cable. The audio receiver might be incorporated within the video display device.

In some embodiments the second computer and the first computer might be the same computer. In some cases at least one of the first computer or the second computer might be the first PDD while in other cases at least one of the first computer or the second computer might be a control server in communication with the first PDD over a network. Where at least one of the first computer or the second computer is the control server delivering user information to the user might in some instances comprise instructing the first PDD to deliver the user information to the user.

According to some embodiments delivering the user information to the user might comprise delivering the user information over at least one of the video output interface or the audio output interface to a corresponding one of the video display device or the audio receiver. In some cases delivering the user information to the user might comprise obtaining the user information from one or more of a location in a cloud computing system or a second PDD remote from the first PDD. In some cases where the user information is obtained from the second PDD remote from the first PDD the second PDD might be at least one of a user device owned by the user or a user device associated with the user.

In some embodiments the method might further comprise detecting with the first PDD that the user is no longer present. In cases in which delivering user information to the user comprises transmitting the user information to the first PDD the method according to some embodiments might further comprise removing the user information from the first PDD based on a determination that the user is no longer present.

The user information in some embodiments might comprise at least one of video content audio content video game content image content or a software application. In some cases each of the at least one of video content audio content video game content image content or the software application is one of purchased content rented content freely downloaded content or user generated content. In some instances the user information might comprise a user profile which might comprise one or more of user profile information for a video game or video game console saved game information user profile information for video or audio content user browser history user profile information for recommended content user profile information for contact information of contacts of the user user profile information for one or more cloud services or user profile information for device preferences. According to some embodiments the user profile might comprise biometric information of the user selected from a group consisting of facial characteristics of the user voice characteristics of the user fingerprint characteristics of the user iris characteristics of the user pupil characteristics of the user and retinal characteristics of the user. Delivering the user information might comprise logging into a service from the first PDD with a credential of the user. The service according to some embodiments might be a video calling service. In some cases the service might be a content subscription service.

According to some embodiments collecting presence information might comprise collecting presence information automatically without user interaction. In alternative embodiments collecting presence information might utilize user interaction. In some instances identifying the user might comprise authenticating the user which in some cases might permit delivery of the user information. In some cases the presence information might comprise at least one of an image captured by the video capture device a video segment captured by the video capture device an audio sample captured by the audio capture device or a detected presence of a user device in proximity to the first PDD.

Identifying the user in some instances might comprise analyzing with the first computer at least one of captured image data or captured video data using facial recognition software. In some cases identifying the user might comprise comparing with the first computer the captured audio data with a voiceprint. In some embodiments identifying the user might comprise comparing with the first computer at least a portion of the captured audio data with stored challenge response information. Identifying the user might according to some embodiments comprise determining with the first computer whether a user device that is detected in proximity to the first PDD is a device associated with the user. In some instances the method might further comprise detecting a presence of the user device that is associated with the user based on at least one of detecting a Bluetooth connection of the user device detecting that the user device is associated with a WiFi access point with which the first PDD has associated or communicating with the user device using near field communication NFC .

The first PDD might be a video game console according to some embodiments. In some cases the first PDD might be a user device selected from a group consisting of a laptop computer a desktop computer a mobile phone a smart phone a tablet computer a personal computer and a video communication device for example as described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 561 165 filed Sep. 16 2009 by Shoemake et al. and titled Real Time Video Communications System issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 144 182 and referred to herein as the 182 patent the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference for all purposes .

In another aspect a presence detection device might comprise a video input interface to receive video input from a local content source an audio input interface to receive audio input from the local content source a video output interface to provide video output to a video display device an audio output interface to provide audio output to an audio receiver a video capture device to capture at least one of image data or video data an audio capture device to capture audio data a network interface at least one processor and or a storage medium in communication with the at least one processor. The network interface in some embodiments might be configured to communicate with at least one of an access point a computer over a network a second presence detection device over the network or a user device in proximity to the presence detection device. The storage medium might have encoded thereon a set of instructions executable by the at least one processor to control operation of the presence detection device.

The set of instructions might comprise instructions to collect presence information about a user and instructions to detect presence of the user based at least in part on the presence information. The set of instructions might further comprise instructions to transmit over the network interface identifying information to a server over a network based on detected presence of the user for the server to identify the user the identifying information being derived from at least a portion of the presence information. The set of instructions might also comprise instructions to receive over the network interface user information based on an identity of the detected use and instructions to present the user information to the user based on the detected presence of the identified user.

In yet another aspect a system might comprise a computer and one or more presence detection devices. The computer might comprise at least one first processor and a first storage medium in communication with the at least one first processor the first storage medium having encoded thereon a first set of instructions executable by the at least one first processor to control operation of the one or more presence detection devices. Each of the one or more presence detection devices might comprise a video input interface to receive video input from a local content source an audio input interface to receive audio input from the local content source a video output interface to provide video output to a video display device an audio output interface to provide audio output to an audio receiver a video capture device to capture at least one of image data or video data an audio capture device to capture audio data a network interface at least one second processor and a second storage medium in communication with the at least one second processor. The second storage medium might have encoded thereon a second set of instructions executable by the at least one second processor to control operation of said presence detection device of the one or more presence detection devices.

The second set of instructions might comprise instructions to collect presence information and instructions to detect presence of a user based at least in part on the presence information. At least one of the first set of instructions or the second set of instructions might comprise instructions to identify the user based at least in part on identifying information derived from at least a portion of the presence information The at least one of the first set of instructions or the second set of instructions might further comprise instructions to deliver user information to the user based on the detected presence of the identified user.

In some embodiments the computer might be a server computer that is remote from the one or more presence detection devices and in communication with at least one of the one or more presence detection devices over a network. In some cases the computer might be embodied in at least one of the one or more presence detection devices.

Merely by way of example a method might comprise collecting presence information about a user with a user device such as a presence detection device or a video communication device to name a few examples . The method might further comprise detecting presence of the user with a computer which could be the user device or another computer in communication with the user device based on the presence information. In some embodiments the method can include identifying the user with the computer based on the presence information and or delivering information to the user with the computer based on the detected presence of the identified user.

A method in accordance with other embodiments might comprise receiving with a server computer and over a network presence information from a user device. In some cases the method can further comprise detecting with the server computer presence of a user based on the presence information and or identifying with the server computer the user based at least in part on the presence information. In a particular embodiment the method might comprise determining with the server computer a location of the user and or delivering with the computer information to the user at the location of the user.

A system in accordance with another set of embodiments might comprise a computer. In an aspect the computer might comprise one or more processors and or a computer readable medium in communication with the one or more processors. In an embodiment the computer readable medium can have encoded thereon a set of instructions executable by the computer system to perform one or more operations. In an aspect the set of instructions might comprise instructions to perform operations in accordance with methods provided by various embodiments. Merely by way of example the set of instructions might comprise instructions for detecting presence of a user based on presence information instructions for identifying the user based on the presence information and or instructions for delivering information to the user based on the detected presence of the identified user. In particular embodiments the system might further comprise a user device such as a presence detection device or a video communication device as described in the 182 patent that collects the presence information to name a few examples . In other embodiments the user device might comprise the computer.

A user device provided by other embodiments might comprise an image sensor to capture an image a communication system one or more processors and or a computer readable medium in communication with the one or more processors. In an aspect the computer readable medium might have encoded thereon a set of instructions executable by the computer system to perform one or more operations. In one embodiment the set of instructions might comprise instructions to collect presence information in response to a request from a server computer over a network and instructions to transmit the presence information to the server computer. In another embodiment the set of instructions might comprise instructions to receive from the server computer content owned by the user in response to the transmitted presence information even if the user device is not owned by the user. The content for example might be obtained by the server computer from another device that is owned by the user or from another source of content that the user has access to.

An apparatus in accordance with another set of embodiments might comprise a computer readable medium having encoded thereon a set of instructions executable by one or more computers to perform one or more operations including without limitation operations in accordance with methods provided by various embodiments. Merely by way of example the set of instructions might comprise instructions for detecting presence of a user based on presence information instructions for identifying the user based on the presence information and or instructions for delivering information to the user based on the detected presence of the identified user.

According to some aspects a method might comprise collecting presence information about a user with a presence detection device. In some instances the presence detection device might comprise a video input interface to receive video input from a local content source an audio input interface to receive audio input from the local content source a video output interface to provide video output to a video display device an audio output interface to provide audio output to an audio receiver a video capture device to capture at least one of image or video data an audio capture device to capture audio data a network interface at least one processor and a storage medium in communication with the at least one processor. The method might further comprise detecting presence of the user with the at least one processor based on at least one of an image or a video segment captured by the video capture device an audio sample captured by the audio capture device or presence of a user device in proximity to the presence detection device detected by the network interface. In some cases the method might comprise identifying the user with one or more of the at least one processor or a control server in communication with the network interface based on the presence information and delivering information to the user with one or more of the at least one processor or the control server based on the detected presence of the identified user.

According to some embodiments delivering the information to the user might comprise obtaining the information from one or more of a location in a cloud computing system or a second presence detection device remote from the presence detection device. In some cases where the information is obtained from the second presence detection device remote from the presence detection device the presence detection device might be at least one of a user device owned by the user or a user device associated with the user. In other cases where the information is obtained from the second presence detection device remote from the presence detection device the presence detection device user device might be neither owned by nor associated with the user.

In some instances the method might further comprise detecting with the presence detection device that the user is no longer present. In some embodiments where delivering information to the user might comprise transmitting the information to the presence detection device the method might further comprise removing the information from the presence detection device based on a determination that the user is no longer present.

The information in some embodiments might comprise at least one of video content audio content video game content image content or a software application. In some cases each of the at least one of video content audio content video game content image content or the software application is one of purchased content rented content freely downloaded content or user generated content. In some instances the information might comprise a user profile which might comprise one or more of user profile information for a video game or video game console user profile information for video or audio content user profile information for each of one or more cloud services or user profile information for device preferences. Delivering the information might comprise logging into a service with a credential of the user from the presence detection device. The service according to some embodiments might be a video calling service.

According to some embodiments collecting presence information might comprise collecting presence information automatically without user interaction. In alternative embodiments collecting presence information might utilize user interaction. In some instances identifying the user might comprise authenticating the user which in some cases might permit delivery of the information.

Detecting presence of a user in some instances might comprise one or more of analyzing a captured image or video segment using facial recognition software comparing the captured audio sample with a voiceprint comparing the captured audio sample with stored challenge response information or determining whether the user device that is detected in proximity to the presence detection device is at least one of owned by the user or associated with the user. In some cases one or more of these detection processes might be performed by the at least one processor of the presence detection device. In other cases one or more of these detection processes might be performed by a server computer in communication with the presence detection device over a network. In some instances detecting presence of the user device might comprise at least one of detecting a Bluetooth connection of the user device detecting that the user device is associated with a WiFi access point with which the presence detection device has associated or communicating with the user device using near field communication NFC .

The presence detection device might be a video game console according to some embodiments. In some cases the presence detection device might be a user device selected from a group consisting of a laptop computer a desktop computer a mobile phone a smart phone a tablet computer a personal computer and a video communication device as described in the 82 patent .

According to some aspects a presence detection device might comprise a video input interface to receive video input from a local content source an audio input interface to receive audio input from the local content source a video output interface to provide video output to a video display device an audio output interface to provide audio output to an audio receiver a video capture device to capture at least one of image or video data an audio capture device to capture audio data a network interface at least one processor and or a storage medium in communication with the at least one processor. The network interface might be configured to communicate with at least one of an access point a computer over a network a second presence detection device over the network or a user device in proximity to the presence detection device. The storage medium might have encoded thereon a set of instructions executable by the at least one processor to control operation of the presence detection device.

The set of instructions might comprise instructions to detect presence of a user based on at least one of an image or a video segment captured by the video capture device an audio sample captured by the audio capture device or presence of a user device in proximity to the presence detection device detected by the network interface. The set of instructions might further comprise instructions to identify the user based on the presence information and instructions to deliver information to the user based on the detected presence of the identified user.

In some aspects a system might comprise a computer and one or more presence detection devices. The computer might comprise at least one first processor and a first storage medium in communication with the at least one first processor the first storage medium having encoded thereon a first set of instructions executable by the at least one first processor to control operation of the one or more presence detection devices. Each of the one or more presence detection devices might comprise a video input interface to receive video input from a local content source an audio input interface to receive audio input from the local content source a video output interface to provide video output to a video display device an audio output interface to provide audio output to an audio receiver a video capture device to capture at least one of image or video data an audio capture device to capture audio data a network interface at least one second processor and a second storage medium in communication with the at least one second processor. Each network interface might be configured to communicate with at least one of an access point the computer over a first network another one of the one or more presence detection devices over a second network or a user device in proximity to the presence detection device. Each of the second storage medium might have encoded thereon a second set of instructions executable by the at least one second processor to control operation of the presence detection device.

At least one of the first set of instructions or the second set of instructions might comprise instructions to detect presence of a user based on at least one of an image or a video segment captured by the video capture device an audio sample captured by the audio capture device or presence of a user device in proximity to the presence detection device detected by the network interface. The at least one of the first set of instructions or the second set of instructions might further comprise instructions to identify the user based on the presence information and instructions to deliver information to the user based on the detected presence of the identified user.

In some embodiments the computer is a server computer that is remote from the presence detection device and in communication with the presence detection device over the first network. In some cases the computer might be embodied in at least one of the one or more presence detection devices. According to some embodiments the first network and the second network might be the same network while in other embodiments the first network and the second network might be separate networks.

Various modifications and additions can be made to the embodiments discussed without departing from the scope of the invention. For example while the embodiments described above refer to particular features the scope of this invention also includes embodiments having different combination of features and embodiments that do not include all of the above described features.

While various aspects and features of certain embodiments have been summarized above the following detailed description illustrates a few exemplary embodiments in further detail to enable one of skill in the art to practice such embodiments. The described examples are provided for illustrative purposes and are not intended to limit the scope of the invention.

In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the described embodiments. It will be apparent to one skilled in the art however that other embodiments of the present invention may be practiced without some of these specific details. In other instances certain structures and devices are shown in block diagram form. Several embodiments are described herein and while various features are ascribed to different embodiments it should be appreciated that the features described with respect to one embodiment may be incorporated with other embodiments as well. By the same token however no single feature or features of any described embodiment should be considered essential to every embodiment of the invention as other embodiments of the invention may omit such features.

Unless otherwise indicated all numbers used herein to express quantities dimensions and so forth used should be understood as being modified in all instances by the term about. In this application the use of the singular includes the plural unless specifically stated otherwise and use of the terms and and or means and or unless otherwise indicated. Moreover the use of the term including as well as other forms such as includes and included should be considered non exclusive. Also terms such as element or component encompass both elements and components comprising one unit and elements and components that comprise more than one unit unless specifically stated otherwise.

Presence Detection Devices PDDs provided by various embodiments can contain or communicate with inter alia cameras microphones and or other sensors including without limitation infrared IR sensors . These sensors in conjunction with the internal processing capability of the device can allow the device to detect when a person is in the room. Additionally through means such as facial recognition and voice detection or the like the devices also can automatically recognize who is in the room. More specifically such devices can detect the presence of a particular individual.

In various embodiments presence detection can be local and or cloud based. In the case of local presence detection the device itself might keep a list of all user profiles and will attempt to match an individual against its local list of all users. In cloud based detection the functionality of user detection can be moved into servers in the cloud. A cloud based approach allows detection of a user s presence to be mobile among various devices whether owned by and or associated with the user or not . That same user can be detected on their device or on any other device that has the same capability and that is tied into the same cloud infrastructure.

The ability to automatically detect the presence of an individual on any device presents a powerful new paradigm for many applications including automation customization content delivery gaming video calling and others. Advantageously in some embodiments a user s content services games profiles and or preferences etc. can follow that user from device to device including devices that are not owned by or previously associated with the individual.

Various sensors on a PDD can be used for user detection. Facial recognition can be used to identify a particular individual s facial characteristics and or voice detection can be used to uniquely identify a person. Additionally PDDs may also have local data storage. This local data storage can be used to store a database of user profiles. The user profiles can contain the various mechanisms that can be used to identify a person including username and password facial characteristics voice characteristics etc. When sensors detect the facial features or capture the voice of a particular individual that captured presence information can be compared against the characteristics of the users on the local storage. If a match is found then the individual has been successfully identified by the device. As used herein the term presence information can be any data or information that can be used to determine the presence of a user and or to identify and or authenticate such a user. As such presence information can include raw image video or audio data analyzed data e.g. video or image data to which preliminary facial recognition procedures such as feature extraction have been employed as well as verification of audio self identification or verification of audio challenge response information the results of such analysis and even the end result of the detection process i.e. a notification that a user is present and or an identification of the user. 

Detection of a user s presence can also be detected via proximity of a PDD to another device. For example if a user s mobile phone tablet or PC is near the PDD that person is automatically detected. In some instances a unique device identifier for each of a user s device might have previously been associated with the user s profile in a cloud database or the like i.e. making the user s devices known devices and detection of such unique device identifiers might serve as a basis for identifying the user or might streamline the identification process by verifying whether the person with the device owned by or associated with the known device is the user or simply someone in possession of the device s whether lawful or unlawful . Such verification might comprise one or more of facial recognition voice recognition audio challenge response verification biometric analysis or the like. In some cases audio challenge response verification might include analysis of sub vocal responses from the person challenged to prevent undesired casual overhearing of audio passwords audio keyphrases or the like. In some instances biometric analysis might include analysis of any suitable biometric aside from facial and voice recognition selected from a group consisting of fingerprint iris pupil height unique scar s other unique physical characteristics and or any combination of these biometrics. To capture biometric information such as fingerprints iris pupil height scar or other unique physical characteristics which might be image based biometrics which might be captured by a high resolution video capture device of the PDD the PDD might prompt the person being identified to position himself or herself so that his or her fingerprints iris pupil full body scar or other unique physical characteristics respectively are appropriately facing the video capture device of the PDD.

In some embodiments with detection of known devices and with automatic detection identification processes being enabled it may be possible for the system to identify persons not normally associated with a known device being in possession of the known device. In such a case the system might notify the original user via e mail or other forms of communication indicated in the user s profile or the like of the situation. In some instances the user might indicate that the unknown person does have authority or permission to use or be in possession of the user s device. In other cases where the user indicates that the user does not have authority or permission to use the device the user may be given options to proceed including without limitation options to lock data options to lock device functions options to activate location tracking including without limitation global positioning system GPS global navigation satellite system GNSS etc. of the device in case the system loses track of the device e.g. in the case the device moves outside the range of the system s sensor detection communications systems options to contact the unknown person options to activate speakers to emit sirens options to activate displays or lights e.g. light emitting diodes LEDs organic LEDs OLEDs liquid crystal displays LCDs etc. and or options to notify authorities e.g. police or other law enforcement personnel of the situation and or the location of the device e.g. GPS coordinates or the like etc.

Additionally and or alternatively proximity detection can be done using GNSS location tracking functionality which can be found in many electronic devices and authenticating the user when the secondary device is within a predefined distance of the PDD. Proximity detection can also be done wirelessly via Bluetooth or WiFi. With respect to Bluetooth if the secondary device pairs with the PDD the user can be considered detected. With respect to WiFi one approach could be to see if the secondary device associates with the same WiFi access point that the PDD is connected to. Another approach to proximity detection is the use of near field communications NFC commonly found in many electronic devices. When the secondary device is within range of the PDD a NFC detector can be used to determine that the user is in the room. From these examples a skilled reader should appreciate that many different techniques can be used to detect presence based on device proximity.

In some embodiments detection of an individual can be fully automatic and might require no user interaction. For example the system can characterize an individual s facial features and or unique physical characteristics or other biometrics automatically detect the presence of a secondary device characterize an individual s voice print automatically etc. Several detection methods can be used in combination to reduce errors in the detection process. For example if the system detects a person in the room and first identifies that person s facial features it can then prompt them for voice e.g. Bob is that you . Once the user s voice is captured that audio sample can be compared against the stored voice characteristics for that user to reduce false detection. Another approach for the second step may be to prompt the user to speak a PIN or password to be compared against what is stored in the user profile. Using this approach the characteristics of the speech e.g. user s voice cadence syntax diction and the content of the speech e.g. a PIN or password can be jointly used to reduce false detections. To prevent eavesdropping of passwords or PINs the audio capture device might be configured to capture subvocalizations of the passwords or PINs for analysis. Alternatively and or additionally the system can prompt the user to position his or her body so as to allow the video capture device to face one or more of the user s fingers e.g. for fingerprint analysis the user s eyes e.g. for iris and or pupil analysis the user s full body e.g. for height analysis portions of the user s body e.g. for analysis of scars or other unique physical characteristics or the like etc.

In some embodiments physical geography can be used as a metric in detection to reduce the possibility of errors. For example if a user is known to use the system in Dallas Tex. and then is detected in Madrid Spain the system can weigh detection in Spain lower than detection in Dallas. Additionally if the user is detected in Spain a secondary authentication method may optionally be invoked to reduce false detection. According to some embodiments in the case that the system has access to profile or other personal information of the user such as communications calendar items contacts list travel itinerary information or the like that might indicate that the user might be visiting a friend or relative in Spain having a similar PDD linked to a common network or cloud server the system might determine that the user is or will be in Spain. In such a case the user s profiles media content or the like or access thereto might be sent to the friend s or relative s device in Spain or to a local data center or the like to allow the user to access content or profiles on the friend s or relative s device during the visit. After the scheduled visit it may be determined using any combination of the user s personal information the user s devices including the user s PDD mobile devices etc. and or the friend s or relative s device whether the user has left the friend s or relative s location in this example Spain . If so determined the content and profiles or access thereto as the case may be might be removed from the friend s or relative s device and or from the data center or the like that is local to said device .

In particular embodiments a PDD can also be connected to a network such as the Internet. In such a scenario the database of user profiles including identifiable facial and or voice characteristics as well as other identifying information e.g. passwords identifying information for other devices owned by the user etc. can be stored on servers located in the cloud i.e. on the network or in a distributed computing system available over the network. In some cases the distributed computing system might comprise a plurality of PDDs in communication with each other either directly or indirectly over the network. The distributed computing system in some instances might comprise one or more central cloud servers linking the plurality of PDDs and controlling the distribution and redundant storage of media content access to content user profiles user data and or the like. When an individual s facial features are detected by a PDD those features and or an image captured by the PDD can be sent to a server on the network. The server then can compare the identifiable facial features against the database of user profiles. If a match is found then the server might inform the device of the identity of the user and or might send a user profile for the user to the device.

In some embodiments user profiles including facial characteristics can be stored both locally on the device and on a server located in the cloud. When using both device based and cloud based databases user identification can be performed by first checking the local database to see if there is a match and if there is no local match then checking the cloud based database. The advantage of this approach is that it is faster for user identification in the case where the user profile is contained in the local database. In some embodiments the database on the device can be configured to stay synchronized with the database in the cloud. For example if a change is made to a user profile on the device that change can be sent to the server and reflected on the database in the cloud. Similarly if a change is made to the user profile in the cloud based database that change can be reflected on the device database.

Matching presence information or identifying information with an individual having a user profile can be a form of authentication in some embodiments. User profiles can also contain information necessary for many authentication mechanisms. Such information may include challenge response pairs such as username and password combinations security question pass phrase combinations or the like facial recognition profiles voice recognition profiles and or other biometric information such as fingerprints etc. An individual may be authenticated using any combination of such techniques.

In some cases the system can also determine when a user is no longer present. Merely by way of example a PDD might continually or periodically monitor for the user s presence. For instance in the case of facial recognition the device can continually check to detect whether a captured image includes the user s face. With voice recognition after a period of inactivity the device might prompt the user if he or she is there e.g. Bob are you still there .

According to some embodiments user profiles can work across heterogeneous networks. Not all user devices need to be the same. Some user devices might be PDDs. Other user devices might be VCDs computers tablets mobile phones etc. Each can use any appropriate method based on device capabilities to determine the presence of identify and or authenticate the user of the device with a user profile.

In an aspect this automated presence detection can be used to provide user information e.g. content or services to an identified user. For instance users often purchase content such as movies music media video games and or video calling services or the like. These purchases often need to be protected so that only authorized users can have access. Associating content with a user profile allows the content purchaser to access his or her purchases whenever the user has been authenticated. With a PDD when a user enters the room and the camera sensors detect that user s facial features and authenticates the individual the content associated with that user profile can automatically become available to that individual. Additionally with the cloud based authentication approach described herein that user s content and or profiles can become available on any device. More specifically if a user is identified by another PDD then his or her content becomes available to him or her even if the PDD that he or she is in front of is not the user s own device. This functionality allows a new paradigm in which the user s content and or profiles follow the user automatically. Similarly when upgrading PDDs detection identification and authentication of the user on the new device can allow automatic and easy porting of the user s content and or profiles to the new device allowing for an ultimate type of plug and play functionality especially if the profiles include information on configurations and settings of the user devices and interconnections with other devices .

When a user purchases content it is often the case that the content is served to a user s device from servers in the cloud. Traditionally this is accomplished by logging into a server or website with a username and password and then having access to your content which can be anything including movies music photos games etc. In this model once authenticated the content is served from a server in the cloud to the device the user is using without the need for the user to login to the server e.g. by entering a username and password . PDDs can provide access to a user s own online content automatically when in front of any PDD whether the user s own device or someone else s. Movies music and other media content that a user has purchased to view can be automatically made available to the user when the user is in front of his or her own PDD or if the user is in front of someone else s PDD. Online games that a user has purchased are automatically made available to the user to play when in front of his or her own device or console as well as another user s device or console. Further user profiles for games and the like online identities saved game statuses or states and other personal information can be downloaded to whatever device or console at which that user happens to be present. In some cases interoperability amongst the various devices e.g. amongst the PDD and the user s other devices might allow for media content related to the purchased media content e.g. movie television program music game etc. to be displayed on one or more of the user s other devices while the said purchased media content is being presented through the PDD and in some cases to a display device and or audio sound system or the like .

Content is often rented as well. While this model can be used with any type of content e.g. music or music videos etc. the content renting model is typically applied to movies television programs usually serial compilations such as the latest or previous season s of a particular television program and games. When content is rented it is made available to a user when that user authenticates with the renting service. With PDDs when a user is in front of any PDD whether owned by associated with the user or owned by associated with someone else all of that user s rented content becomes instantly available wherever he or she may be. For example if a user rented a movie at home it would automatically be available for the user to watch at a friend s home if that friend owned a PDD that automatically authenticated the user to the user s content and or profiles. Similarly such authentication techniques can allow a user to rent or purchase content from any device at which the user is present without having to link that content to an owner of the device instead the rented or purchased content can be linked to the present user and will be available to that user on other devices including the user s own devices and devices not owned or associated with the user . An analogy might be the user renting a DVD or Blu ray movie or music CD and bringing the rented media content recording medium to a friend s home to present the rented media content except without either the physical recording medium or physical interaction with the friend s device to gain access to the rented media content except only to select which one to present through the friend s device and when . Rather the device at the location at which the user is currently present detects identifies and authenticates the user thereby allowing the user s profiles and or content including rented media content to follow the user to that location. The user can also purchase or rent media content while at the friend s home using the friend s device perhaps based on recommendations by the friend and the purchased or rented media content can be associated with the user s profile. When the user returns home the purchased or rented media content may be made available to the user through the user s profile upon the user being detected and recognized and authenticated by the user s device.

In many cases purchased content is downloaded directly to a particular device. For example this could include movies television shows music photos software applications and or games. In such a scenario the content is served by the device that has downloaded the content and from a server in the cloud. Merely by way of example movies might be played locally rather than streamed from an online server and games can be played locally rather than online . When a user is in front of his or her own PDD that user s own content is automatically made available on the device. The content is served locally since it has been downloaded to the local device. When a user is authenticated by a PDD that is not his or her own content that the user has purchased and downloaded on the user s own device is not stored on the device the user is currently using. However using the features of embodiments described herein a user s downloaded content can be automatically made available to the user. The new PDD that the user is using can automatically download the content that the user requests to use. For example suppose a user has purchased a movie or game that the user will use with his or her PDD at home. That movie or game is associated with that user s profile. If that user is in front of another PDD and automatically becomes authenticated then the content associated with that user s profile can be made available to the new PDD. The new PDD can download the game or movie as the user tries to access it on the new device. In this manner the user can watch his or her movies or play his or her games on any PDD. Additionally if the content already exists on the new device i.e. the owner of the new device also has the same content on it then the user can be granted access without initiating a download.

In some cases content is rented and downloaded directly onto a particular device. The content itself is time sensitive and cannot be used after a certain period of time. A user s profile can also indicate any content that has been rented. When a user is in front of any PDD the content can automatically download the rented content when accessed and be made available to the user on the new PDD.

PDDs also are capable of handling user generated content which can include but is not limited to home movies DVR content movies songs pictures and others. User generated content is not generally stored on servers in the cloud but rather is stored locally on a particular user device. When accessing user generated content from another device the PDD that has the user generated content stored locally needs to serve the content to the new device that the content owner is using. In order to do this the new PDD might need to get a list of user generated content that is stored on the content owner s device. This can in some embodiments be facilitated via a server that is in the cloud that all PDDs are always or mostly connected to. The server can communicate with all PDDs and help send messages between PDDs. When a user is authenticated with a new PDD the new device can request the content list from the content owner s device. If the content owner requests content from the new device then the owner s PDD or other user device can serve the content to the new device. This can be done either directly in a peer to peer fashion or can be facilitated by the server. In some embodiments this communication can be accomplished by using protocols such as XMPP SIP TCP IP RTP UDP etc.

A PDD can be any device that is capable of communicating with a control server over a network and can provide any of a variety of types of video communication content delivery gaming and or presence detection functionality Merely by way of example in some aspects a PDD can be capable of providing pass through video audio to a display device and or audio playback device from another source such as a set top box and or overlaying such video audio with additional content generated or received by the PDD . In other aspects a PDD can comprise one or more sensors e.g. digital still cameras video cameras webcams security cameras microphones infrared sensors touch sensors and or the like and or can be capable using data acquired by such sensors of sensing the presence of a user identifying a user and or receiving user input from a user further a PDD can be capable of performing some or all of the other functions described herein and or in the Related Applications. Hence in various embodiments a PDD can be embodied by a video calling device such as any of the VCDs described in the 182 patent a laptop computer a desktop computer a mobile phone a smart phone a tablet computer a video game console and or a streaming media player to name a few non limiting examples.

In one aspect of certain embodiments as described more fully with respect to below a PDD can be placed functionally inline between a local content source and a display device. A local content source can be any device that provides an audio or video stream to a display device and thus can include without limitation a cable or satellite set top box STB an Internet Protocol television IPTV STB devices that generate video and or audio and or acquire video and or audio from other sources such as the Internet and provide that video audio to a display device hence a local content source can include devices such as a video game console a Roku streaming media player an AppleTV and or the like. When situated functionally inline between a local content source and a display device the PDD can receive an audiovisual stream output from the local content source modify that audiovisual stream in accordance with the methods described herein and provide the perhaps modified audiovisual stream as input to the display device. It should be noted however that in some cases the functionality of a local content source can be incorporated within a PDD and or the functionality of a PDD can be incorporated within a local content source further it should be appreciated that a PDD which might or might not include local content source functionality can be disposed inline with one or more other local content sources or one or more other PDDs. Hence for example a PDD with some local content source functionality such as a video game console might be disposed inline between one or more other PDDs or one or more other local content sources such as a cable STB satellite STB IPTV STB and or a streaming media player and a display device.

In an aspect of some embodiments the system can include a software client that can be installed on a computing device e.g. a laptop computer wireless phone tablet computer etc. that has a built in camera and or has a camera attached e.g. a USB webcam . This client can act as an interface to allow remote control of the built in and or attached camera on the computing device. In some embodiments the computing device might have a built in microphone s and or has a microphone s attached e.g. a table top microphone a wall mounted microphone and or a microphone removably mountable on a television on the PDD and or on some other suitable user device or the like . The software client can alternatively and or additionally act as an interface to allow remote control of the built in and or attached microphone on the computing device. In some cases the camera and or microphone can be automatically or autonomously controlled to obtain optimal video and or audio input.

The system can further include a control server which can have any suitable hardware configuration and an example of one such configuration is described below in relation to . In one aspect the control server is a computer that is capable of receiving user input via a user interface and or performing operations for controlling the PDD s for example as described in further detail below. As used with regard to the relationship between the control server and a PDD the term control should be interpreted broadly to include any operations that operate configure or directly control the PDD as well as operations that facilitate communication between the PDD and other devices networks content sources and the like and or operations that provide processing support to a PDD . Merely by way of example however the control server can detect user presence identify authenticate users and or obtain and distribute content to present users. In other cases the control server can receive and or store user input and or user preferences that can specify whether and how presence information should be used whether and how the user s content and profiles should be handled under certain situations and or the like. For example preferences might specify which content or other information should be delivered to a user when present at a device not owned by the user whether presence information should be collected for that user at all and or where such information should be collected for example a user might specify that his presence should only be monitored in selected locations or from selected devices and the control server might remove that user s profile from the search universe when provided with presence information from a device not at the selected location or from a device other than one of the selected devices. More generally the user preference can include any types of parameters related to collecting presence information using presence information and or serving content. These preferences might be stored in a user profile at the control server which might also include other user specific information such as the user s normal location s identifying information such as MAC address etc. of other user devices owned by or associated with the user lists of or links to content owned by the user and or the like.

As such the control server can provide a user interface which can be used by users of the PDDs advertisers and or the like . The control server might also provide machine to machine interfaces such as application programming interfaces APIs data exchange protocols and the like which can allow for automated communications with the PDDs etc. In one aspect the control server might be in communication with a web server and or might incorporate the web server which can provide the user interface e.g. over the network to a user computer not shown in and or a machine to machine interface. In another aspect the control server might provide such interfaces directly without need for a web server . Under either configuration the control server provides the user interface as that phrase is used in this document. In some cases some or all of the functionality of the control server might be implemented by the PDD itself.

In an aspect the user interface allows users to interact with the control server and by extension the PDDs . A variety of user interfaces may be provided in accordance with various embodiments including without limitation graphical user interfaces that display for a user display fields on display screens for providing information to the user and or receiving user input from a user.

Merely by way of example in some embodiments the control server may be configured to communicate with a user computer not shown in via a dedicated application running on the user computer in this situation the user interface might be displayed by the user computer based on data and or instructions provided by the control server . In this situation providing the user interface might comprise providing instructions and or data to cause the user computer to display the user interface. In other embodiments the user interface may be provided from a web site e.g. by providing a set of one or more web pages which might be displayed in a web browser running on the user computer and or might be served by the web server . As noted above in various embodiments the control system might comprise the web server and or be in communication with the web server such that the control server provides data to the web server to be incorporated in web pages served by the web server for reception and or display by a browser at the user computer.

The network specific examples of which are described below with regard to can be any network wired or wireless that is capable of providing communication between the control server and the PDDs and or of providing communication between the control server and or the web server and a user computer. In a specific embodiment the network can comprise the Internet any television distribution network and or any Internet service provider ISP access networks that provide Internet access to the control server the user computer and or the PDDs .

In some embodiments the system can include a cloud storage system which can be used as described in further detail below to store advertisements presence information images and or video that are captured and uploaded by the PDDs and or the like. In some cases the cloud storage system might be a proprietary system operated by an operator of the control server . In other cases the cloud storage system might be operated by a third party provider such as one of the many providers of commercially available cloud services. In yet a further embodiment the cloud storage system might be implemented by using resources compute memory storage network etc. shared by a plurality of PDDs distributed among various users of the system. Merely by way of example as described in further detail in the Distributed Infrastructure Application already incorporated by reference herein a plurality of user PDDs might each have some dedicated resources such as a storage partition which are dedicated for use by the system and or some ad hoc resources such as network bandwidth memory compute resources etc. that are available to the system when not in use by a user. Such resources can be used as cloud storage and or can be used to provide a distributed cloud like platform on which a control server can run as a virtual machine cloud container and or the like.

Turning to the method might comprise registering a master account for a user block . In accordance with various embodiments registering a master account for a user can comprise a variety of operations. Merely by way of example registering a master account can comprise creating a database entry for a particular user and or assigning authentication credentials to that user these credentials can be used to access the master account as described in further detail below.

The method can also include assigning one or more presence detection devices PDDs to the master account block . As discussed above the one or more PDDs can be embodied by a video calling device such as any of the VCDs described in the 182 patent a laptop computer a desktop computer a mobile phone a smart phone a tablet computer a video game console and or a streaming media player to name a few non limiting examples. For instance the user might identify any PDDs that the user owns or is otherwise associated with e.g. members of the user s family might be associated with the devices owned by the user and the system can assign those PDDs to the user s master account. According to some embodiments the user s master account might include any suitable number of sub accounts. In one example each member of the user s family might be associated with a sub account linked with the master account. In some instances the user or some members of his or her family might have a work school sub account and a home sub account the former being associated with profiles and or media content appropriate for school or work while the latter being associated with all or all other profiles and or media content. In some embodiments the master account and the plurality of sub accounts might be organized as a hierarchy with the master account being at the top of the hierarchical structure having full access to profiles and media content of each sub account the sub accounts at the next level having access to profiles and or media content of only those sub accounts that the master account has given access to and the sub accounts at lower levels having limited access to profiles and or media content. For example the user s master account might have access to all profiles and or media content associated with the master account and the sub accounts. The user can provide his or her spouse with a sub account having the same access to profiles and or media content while providing limited access to profiles and or media content to each of the user s children s sub account s . In some instances the user and or the user s spouse might impose limits on access to profiles and or media content for each of their work sub accounts.

In some cases each PDD might have an identifier such as a hardware identifier IP address nickname and or the like by which the system can address the PDD and assigning a PDD to the master account can comprise associating that identifier with the master account. When a PDD is assigned to a master account the user of that account will be able to access configure and or control the PDD through the control server for example as described in further detail below. In some cases the user might own a plurality of PDDs and might wish to control all of the PDDs from a single master account. In an aspect a user can identify such devices through a user interface to the control server.

In another aspect as described briefly above the assignment process can be simplified. When the user first configures a PDD usually locally but perhaps over the network the user can provide credentials to the PDD that associate the device with the master account. Thereafter the PDD might be configured to communicate with the control server and identify itself using those credentials at that point the control server can assign the PDD to the master account and no credentials need to be stored on the PDD from that point forward other than perhaps the PDD s own identifying information .

Hence the method in the illustrated embodiment might further comprise providing a user interface to allow interaction between the user and the control server block . For example the user interface can be used to output information for a user e.g. by displaying the information on a display device printing information with a printer playing audio through a speaker etc. the user interface can also function to receive input from a user e.g. using standard input devices such as mice and other pointing devices motion capture devices touchpads and or touchscreens keyboards e.g. numeric and or alphabetic microphones etc. The procedures undertaken to provide a user interface therefore can vary depending on the nature of the implementation in some cases providing a user interface can comprise displaying the user interface on a display device in other cases however in which the user interface is displayed on a device remote from the computer system such as on a client computer wireless device etc. providing the user interface might comprise formatting data for transmission to such a device and or transmitting receiving and or interpreting data that is used to create the user interface on the remote device. Alternatively and or additionally the user interface on a client computer or any other appropriate user device might be a web interface in which the user interface is provided through one or more web pages that are served from a computer system and or a web server in communication with the computer system and are received and displayed by a web browser on the client computer or other capable user device . The web pages can display output from the computer system and receive input from the user e.g. by using Web based forms via hyperlinks electronic buttons etc. . A variety of techniques can be used to create these Web pages and or display receive information such as JavaScript Java applications or applets dynamic Hypertext Markup Language HTML and or Asynchronous JavaScript and XML or extensible markup language AJAX technologies to name but a few examples.

In many cases providing a user interface will comprise providing one or more display screens each of which includes one or more user interface elements. As used herein the term user interface element also described as a user interface mechanism or a user interface device means any text image or device that can be displayed on a display screen for providing information to a user and or for receiving user input. Some such elements are commonly referred to as widgets and can include without limitation text text boxes text fields tables and or grids menus toolbars charts hyperlinks buttons lists combo boxes checkboxes radio buttons and or the like. While any illustrated exemplary display screens might employ specific user interface elements appropriate for the type of information to be conveyed received by computer system in accordance with the described embodiments it should be appreciated that the choice of user interface elements for a particular purpose is typically implementation dependent and or discretionary. Hence the illustrated user interface elements employed by any display screens described herein should be considered exemplary in nature and the reader should appreciate that other user interface elements could be substituted within the scope of various embodiments.

As noted above in an aspect of certain embodiments the user interface provides interaction between a user and a computer system. Hence when this document describes procedures for displaying or otherwise providing information to a user or to receiving input from a user the user interface may be the vehicle for the exchange of such input output. Merely by way of example in a set of embodiments the user interface allows the user to log on to a master account access PDDs via the control server etc.

In an aspect of some embodiments the user logs onto his or her master account at the control server in order to access and or control PDDs assigned to that account. Accordingly at block the method can include authenticating the user with a set of credentials associated with the master account e.g. with any of several known authentication schemes such as a userid password challenge a certificate exchange process and or the like as well as authentication techniques described in further detail below that employ sensors on a PDD such as facial recognition voiceprint analysis gesture based identification spoken identifiers and or the like . Once the user has been authenticated the user interface can present the user with a variety of different information including without limitation information about status of PDDs assigned to the master account to which the user has logged on options for controlling such PDDs and or the like.

Thus in some aspects the method might further comprise receiving e.g. via a network such as the Internet to name one example user preferences block and in particular user preferences relating to the collection and or use of presence information including without limitation preferences such as those described above. The method then can further include controlling and or configuring the PDD in some cases based at least in part on the user preferences block . Merely by way of example the user might have specified in the user preferences that the PDD should not be used to collect presence information at all in which case that feature might be turned off at the PDD. In the case that the user preferences indicate that presence information should be turned off e.g. privacy settings may be set high either permanently or temporarily and or with respect to certain user established and or preset conditions or the like some embodiments might establish a blocking feature for the user when other PDDs send presence information for comparison matching processes with database user biometrics the effect of which being that no match can be made and thus the user s profiles and or media content and or access thereto is not ported to the other PDDs. Alternatively and or additionally the user might have specified some limitations on the collection of presence information such as about whom such information may be collected times at which information can be collected and or purposes for which information may be collected to name a few examples . Of course in some embodiments these preferences can be set directly at the PDD e.g. through a menu system displayed on a video device. It should also be recognized that some preferences such as with whom presence information can be shared might not affect the PDD and might be saved and or operated on at the control server instead.

The amount of control imposed by the control server can vary according to embodiment and implementation. Merely by way of example as noted above in some embodiments there might be no control server and the PDD might incorporate all the functionality described herein with regard to the control server including peer to peer functionality with other PDDs. In other embodiments the control server might provide fairly fine grained control over the PDD such as instructing the camera to capture images for purposes of determining presence and or the control server may receive the images directly and perform the presence determination identification and or authentication procedures at the control server. The division of responsibility between the control server and the PDD can fall anywhere along this spectrum. In some cases for instance the control server might provide the user preferences to the PDD which then is responsible for collecting presence information in accordance with those preferences and transmitting the presence information to the control server which takes the appropriate action in response to the presence information such as selecting an advertisement based on the presence information. Alternatively and or additionally the PDD itself might be responsible for taking such actions.

At block the method can comprise collecting presence information. A variety of operations might be involved in the collection of presence information. For example in some cases the PDD captures one or more images of at least a portion of a room where it is located and or of a user present in the room block . Such images can be digital still images a digital video stream and or the like. In other cases the method can include capturing audio samples block identifying devices in proximity to the capturing device block and or the like for example as described above .

The method can further comprise analyzing one or more of the collected presence information block including one or more of the images video samples audio samples etc. Merely by way of example the images and or video samples might be analyzed with facial recognition software and or other biometric physiological recognition software which can be used to determine the number of people in the room with the PDD and or to identify any of such people e.g. by determining a name an age range a gender and or other identifying or demographic information about a user based on the output of the facial recognition software and or other biometric physiological recognition software . Alternatively and or additionally analyzing the images can comprise determining that a person is watching a display device for example using eye tracking software to identify a focus area of the person s eyes and correlating that focus area with the location on a screen or display of a television or other suitable display device . In some cases if the number of people and the identities or at least demographic characteristics of each of the people in the room can be determined analyzing the images can further include determining a collective demographic of the people in the room based for example on the demographic characteristics of a majority of people in the room . In further cases the method might analyze audio samples using voiceprint analysis compare user responses to stored challenge response information and or the like. As yet another example a camera of a PDD might capture user gestures which can be compared with stored gestures e.g. a particular pattern of hand waving a pattern of fingers displayed by the user etc. in a gesture based identification and or authentication scheme. It should be noted that many embodiments can use various combinations of such techniques such as a combination of facial analysis and spoken gestured or typed identifiers to name a few examples to provide two factor authentication.

Such analysis can be performed at the PDD and or at the control server. Accordingly in some embodiments the PDD will transmit presence information or other identifying information that can be used in part or in whole for identifying the user. Such identifying information can include raw or analyzed presence information as well as information derived from the presence information such as to name some examples extracted features from an image audio segment and or video segment an excerpted image video and or audio segment and or the like. Such presence information and or identifying information can be transmitted from the PDD to the control server block although as noted above this is not necessary in some embodiments e.g. where identifying the user or other analysis is performed at the PDD . Such transmission might comprise IP communications over the Internet perhaps over a secure channel such as a virtual private network VPN and as noted above the presence identifying information can include a wide variety of different types of information that enable the control server to determine presence and or identify authenticate a user. Hence at block the control server in a cloud based presence detection scheme might receive the transmitted presence information. In the case that raw presence information is received by the control server the control server might analyze the raw presence information in a similar manner as described above at block . At block the method comprises detecting and or determining presence of a user. This determination can be made by the PDD and or by the control server. In one case for example the PDD might transmit raw video segments raw images raw audio samples etc. to the server which might perform all analysis and presence determination. In another case the PDD might perform this analysis and might notify the control server that a user is present. Receiving such a notification at the control server can be considered to be the control server detecting presence of a user.

At block the method can include identifying and or authenticating a user. In some cases this identification and or authentication can be implicit in the operation of detecting user presence. For example in performing facial recognition to detect that a user is present the PDD and or control server might further analyze the same image to determine an identity of the present user. Alternatively however detection of user presence and identification authentication of the user might be performed as discrete steps and might depend on device capabilities . For example a PDD might have sufficient capabilities to detect the presence of the user and if so might send identifying information such as a captured image video sample audio sample etc. to the control server to actually identify the user. Alternatively the PDD might be capable of identifying the user on its own and might merely send the identity of the user i.e. data identifying the user such as a name username etc. to the server.

In some instances the PDD and or the control server i.e. in a cloud based presence scheme might have access to the user s profile or other personal information of the user including without limitation communications calendar items contacts list travel itinerary information IP address of user s PDD s or the like . Such profile or other personal information might indicate that the user is visiting a friend or relative in a different city state or country. In the case that the friend or family member has a similar PDD linked to a common network with the control server or other PDDs i.e. in a peer to peer or distributed computing scheme the user s PDD and or the control server if present might facilitate identification and or authentication of the user at the friend s or relative s PDD other PDD by for example sending the user s biometric physiological information to the other PDD and or to a data center local to the other PDD so as to reduce comparison matching times for identification authentication of the user at the other PDD. In this manner delivery of information as described below at block may be facilitated to provide quicker access to the user s profiles and content at the other PDD. Such proactive autonomous facilitation functionality might in some cases be subject to the user s selection of such option in the user preferences e.g. at block above . In some cases the user might disable and or limit such functionality e.g. for privacy reasons for security reasons and or the like . In some embodiments the IP address of a PDD at which a user attempts to log in might be analyzed to determine the city in which the PDD is located. If the city or neighborhood or customer premises of the last PDD at which the user logged in or is otherwise authenticated by is determined to be different from the city or neighborhood or customer premises of the current PDD then it can be inferred that the user has moved or is travelling. Such inference may be used in some embodiments to further infer a general direction in which the user is travelling or to infer a potential destination s if sufficient numbers of data points locations are determined and can be used to send ahead the user s profile and or content to control servers and or PDDs that are at or near the determined potential destination s .

Once the present user has been identified and or authenticated the control server and or the PDD at which the user is present might obtain content or other information for the user block . This content information can include any such information noted above such as video audio content owned rented generated by the user user profile information and or the like. In some cases obtaining such content can comprise accessing the content on another PDD or other user device owned by and or associated with the user and or on another PDD or other user device owned by and or associated with someone other than the user. In some cases the content information might be stored on the control server and or elsewhere in the cloud in which case the server might obtain the content from such a location or might not need to obtain the content at all.

At block the method can include determining a location of a user. Such a location might be an absolute physical location and or the location might be a location relative to a particular PDD. Merely by way of example determining the location of the user might include determining that the user is located at a particular address in any particular state or country and or the like alternatively determining the location might comprise determining that the user is present at a PDD known to the system. Hence such a determination might be explicit e.g. using location services of a device at the user s location such as the application device at which the user is present or the determination might be implicit e.g. determining implicitly that the user is proximate the PDD used to determine that the user is present and need not be a discrete operation. In any case the system can use the location of the user to determine where content should be delivered e.g. to a particular user device at the user s location to the PDD at which the user is present etc. .

At block then the method can comprise delivering the content or other information to the user based on the detected presence of the user and or any user preferences specifying whether how content should be delivered. The term user information is used broadly herein to describe any type of content user profile information services or other information that can be delivered to the user as described herein. Delivering the content to the user can comprise for example transmitting such content to the PDD at which the user is present and or to another device at the user s location. In other cases delivering the content can comprise streaming the content to any such devices and or making the content accessible for streaming by any such devices. In further cases delivering the content to a user could comprise the control server providing information such as user identification and or device addressing information such as an IP address to another content source such as a content server or content delivery network for the other content source to deliver content to the PDD or another user device . In this sense the term delivering can include operations that facilitate the delivery of information to the user by another source and is not strictly to directly delivering the information from the control server. Of course in that situation the separate content source could also be considered to be delivering the information to the user within the scope of some embodiments. 

In other embodiments delivering information to the user can include automatically providing access to services to which the user is entitled from the PDD at which the user is present or another device in proximity to the PDD regardless of whether the PDD or other device is owned by and or associated with the user. For example if the user is a subscriber to a video calling service delivering information to the user can comprise automatically logging in to the video calling service from the PDD at which the user is present e.g. a friend s or relative s PDD or a PDD located at a vacation destination e.g. hotel vacation rental property etc. . As another example delivering information to the user can comprise providing access to content sales or rental services from the PDD at which the user is present e.g. automatically logging onto a content rental or sales service with the user s credentials from that presence detection device where the content sales or rental services might provide a user with the proper credentials with access to purchases or rented video content audio content image content and or game content. Where the user is automatically authenticated by the PDD e.g. by biometric analysis and authentication or the like which might be stored in the user s profile along with login credentials for the user s accounts with content rental or sales services video calling services or the like the PDD might access the user s profile and might automatically log the user into any selected or preselected content rental or sales services video calling services or the like

In some embodiments the method comprises determining that a user is no longer present at the PDD block . For example as noted above the system might continuously and or periodically capture images and perform presence determination techniques e.g. as described above to determine whether the user is still present and or might actively query the user after some period of time to determine whether the user is still present. If the system determines that the user is no longer present the system can remove content from the PDD block for example the system might delete any content transmitted to the device log out of any services that the system had logged into from the device revoke access to content stored in the cloud and or the like. This functionality is particularly useful and applicable to PDDs or other devices that are neither owned nor associated with the user e.g. a friend s or relative s device devices at a vacation hotel or vacation rental property etc. . Such determination and content access removal might in some instances be based on a time out system e.g. 5 15 30 or 60 minutes etc. in which the system might account for the user s temporary absence from the room while protecting the access to profiles and or content. In some cases the user can select specific time out periods which can be stored in the user s profile and such specific time out periods can be universally applicable to some or all profiles some or all media content or some or all profiles and media content or can be specific to particular profiles and or media content. In some cases user profiles might be associated with a much shorter time out period a time between 1 5 minutes compared with media content which might have a time out period ranging from 15 minutes to 3 hours or the like . The time out system might be based on a counter or clock system that starts counting from the last time the system recognized that the user was in range of any of the sensors of the PDD. Any suitable techniques other than the time out system described above may be implemented as appropriate.

The reader should note that a wide variety of presence based functions including without limitation those described in the Related Applications can be performed by the system in conjunction with various techniques described as part of the method and that such functions can be combined in any suitable way. Merely by way of example the 603 application described advertising techniques that can be implemented based on detected presence and such techniques can be integrated with various techniques described as part of the method . For instance the system e.g. the control server the PDD etc. might obtain relevant advertising material as described in the 603 application and display such advertising over content obtained and delivered using the techniques of the method . Based on this disclosure the skilled reader will understand that such techniques can be combined in a number of different ways.

In PDD might correspond to PDD while user device might correspond to non PDD user device both as described in detail above with respect to . Control server network and cloud storage system in the example of might correspond to control server network and cloud storage system respectively as described in detail above with respect to .

System might further comprise a local content source e.g. a local content source as described above a display device including without limitation a television TV and high definition HD data cables or any other suitable data transmission media . In some cases the HD data cables might include without limitation high definition multimedia interface HDMI cables or any other suitable HD data cables. One or more of the PDDs as shown in might be configured to provide pass through audio and or video from a local content source to a display device e.g. using data cables . Merely by way of example in some embodiments a HD data input port e.g. a HDMI input port in the PDD allows HD signals to be input from the corresponding local content source and a HD data output port e.g. a HDMI output port in the PDD allows HD signals to be output from the PDD to the corresponding display device e.g. TV which might include but is not limited to an Internet Protocol TV IPTV a HDTV a cable TV or the like . The output HD signal may in some cases be the input HD signal modified by the PDD . Local content source might be any suitable local content source. As described herein a local content source is any device that provides an audio or video stream to a display device and thus can include without limitation a cable STB a satellite STB an IPTV STB devices that generate video and or audio and or acquire video and or audio from other sources such as the Internet and provide that video audio to a display device and or the like . Hence when situated functionally inline between a local content source and a display device the PDD can receive an audiovisual stream output from the local content source modify that audiovisual stream in accordance with the methods described in the 182 patent and provide the perhaps modified audiovisual stream as input to the display device . In some embodiments PDD local content source display device and user device if any might be located at a first customer premises while PDD local content source display device and user device if any might be located at a second customer premises

According to some embodiments system might further comprise one or more access points not shown each of which might be located in proximity to or in the first customer premises and or the second customer premises . The access point s can allow wireless communication between each PDD and network . Of course a PDD might also have a wired connection to an access point router residential gateway etc. such as via an Ethernet cable which can provide similar communication functionality. In some cases as shown each PDD might be communicatively coupled to network via either wired or wireless connection without routing through any access points. In some cases wired or wireless access to network allows PDD to obtain profiles from cloud storage system and or media content from content server and media content database independent of the corresponding local content source which is in communication with a television TV distribution network either via wireless connection or via wired connection . In some cases not shown TV distribution network which could be for example a cable television distribution network a satellite television distribution network an Internet Protocol television IPTV distribution network and or the like might be communicatively coupled with content server and thus local content source might obtain media content from content server and media content database independently of PDD . Alternatively or in addition the television distribution network might be communicatively coupled to other content servers and or other media content sources not shown .

In this manner PDD can overlay the input signal from the corresponding local content source with additional media content to produce an augmented output HD signal to the corresponding display device via data cables . This functionality allows for supplemental content which may be associated with the media content accessed by the local content source for display on display device to be accessed and presented using the PDD in some cases as a combined presentation on the display device which may be one of an overlay arrangement e.g. a picture in picture PIP display with the supplemental content overlaid on the main content a split screen arrangement with the supplemental content adjacent to but not obscuring any portion of the main content a passive banner stream with non interactive supplemental content streaming in a banner s along one or more of a top bottom left or right edge of a display field in which the main content is displayed on display device and or an interactive banner stream with interactive supplemental content streaming in a banner s along one or more of a top bottom left or right edge of a display field in which the main content is displayed on display device . Herein examples of interactive supplemental content might include without limitation content that when streamed in a banner can be caused to slow stop and or replay within the banner in response to user interaction with the content and or the banner as opposed to passive banner streaming in which information is streamed in a manner uncontrollable by the user . The interactive supplemental content that is streamed in the banner may in some instances also allow the user to invoke operations or functions by interacting therewith for example by the user highlighting and or selecting the supplemental content e.g. an icon or still photograph of a character actor actress scene etc. associated with the main content links for related webpages links to further content stored in media content database or operations to display related content on display device and or user device may be invoked.

In some instances PDD might detect the presence and or proximity of one or more user devices associated with the user and might based on user profile information associated with the user that is stored e.g. in cloud storage system automatically send supplemental media content via wireless link directly from PDD or indirectly via an access point not shown for display on a display screen s of the one or more user devices . In one non limiting example a user associated with PDD might have established a user profile stored in cloud storage system that indicates a user preference for any and all supplemental content for movies and television programs to be compiled and displayed on one or more user devices including but not limited to a tablet computer a smart phone a laptop computer and or a desktop computer etc. concurrent to display of the movie or television program being displayed on display device . In such a case when a movie is playing on display device broadcast or streamed via local content source from content server and media content database and or from some other content server and some other media content source via network PDD accesses supplemental content if available from content server and media content database via network and sends the supplemental content to the user s tablet computer and or smart phone via wireless link s . For example bios of actors actresses and or crew might be sent to the user s smart phone for display on the screen thereof while schematics of machines weapons robots tools etc. associated with the movie or television show might be sent to and displayed on the user s tablet computer behind the scenes videos or information news reviews associated with the main content and or music videos associated with the main content may also be sent to the user s smart phone and or tablet computer and so on.

In some embodiments gaming may be enhanced by the functionality described above. For example a role player game RPG may be enhanced by supplemental content including but not limited to player statistics buy sell upgrade options for tools and weapons communications with other in game characters and or live friends playing the game etc. may be routed through the user s smart phone tablet computer or other suitable user device while the user is playing the RPG via the local content source game console and the display device . In some cases the video game in this case a RPG could be played on the PDD which as noted above can be embodied by a video game console. This allows for player multitasking without taking away from the gameplay on the main display screen i.e. the display device . For a first person shooter game similar multitasking functionality may be achieved. Cooperative game play may also be achieved using the functionality described above. In a non limiting example the user might control the shooting and the direct interactions with elements in the game using the main controls of the local content source game console while a friend uses the tablet computer for example to buy sell upgrade equipment and weapons to communicate with other characters and or players to keep track of enemies or the like. In an example of a jet fighter tank and or space ship shooter game or the like the user might control the flight and weapons as displayed on display device while the friend s keeps an eye on radar lidar sonar or other sensor readings of enemy craft handles status checks of weapons and ammunition takes care of maintenance and repairs and or establishes communications with in game characters and or players as displayed on one or more user device . These are merely some examples of the myriad arrays of possibilities enabled by the functionalities described above and thus are limited only by the imaginations of game developers and players for enhancing multiplayer multitasking game play.

According to some embodiments the detection of the presence of the user device by the PDD might allow identification of a user and thus access of profiles and or content associated with the user s account regardless of whether the PDD is owned by and or associated with the user. Herein the user s media content might include without limitation at least one of video content audio content video game content image content and or software application. In some cases each of the at least one of video content audio content video game content image content or software application is one of purchased content rented content freely downloaded content and or user generated content. The user s profiles might include but are not limited to one or more of user profile information for a video game or video game console saved game information web browser history and or bookmarks contact information for the user s contacts user profile information for video or audio content including without limitation recommended content device preferences user profile information for cloud services and or the like. In some cases the user s profile might also include identifying information including but not limited to the user s biometric information e.g. facial characteristics voice characteristics fingerprint characteristics iris characteristics pupil characteristics retinal characteristics etc. or the like. In some examples the user profile information for cloud services might include user log in information e.g. username account number and or password passphrase etc. or other suitable credentials for cloud services which might include without limitation video calling service voice calling service video broadcast streaming service audio broadcast streaming service on line gaming service banking financial services travel accommodation rental vehicle services and or dining entertainment event reservation ticketing services or the like.

In one example a user might be associated with PDD located in the first customer premises while her friend might be associated with PDD located in the second customer premises and the user and the friend are both subscribers of a similar service provided by control server and or the cloud service provider associated with control server . When the user visits her friend the friend s PDD might first detect presence of the user by querying and or obtaining the identification information for the user s smart phone and or tablet computer or the like by capturing video image and or voice data of the user by infrared detection of a living person in the room and or by audio detection of a living person in the room etc. The friend s PDD might then identify the user using the user s device s identification information and or the captured video image and or voice data or might send such presence information to control server for identification and authentication analysis. In some cases detecting presence of or identifying authenticating the user might include without limitation analyzing captured images or video segments using one or more of facial recognition software pupil iris recognition software retinal identification software fingerprint analysis software and or physiology recognition software analyzing captured audio samples using one or more of voiceprint analysis and or comparison with stored challenge response information and or identification of a user device owned by and or associated with the user e.g. based on identification information of the device which may be previously associated with the user or the user s profile s etc. . In terms of detection of the presence of the user s device any suitable technique may be implemented including but not limited to at least one of detecting a Bluetooth connection of the user device detecting that the user device is associated with a WiFi access point with which the PDD has associated and or communicating with the user device using near field communication NFC .

Once the user has been identified and authenticated control server might send copies of the user s profiles and or content to PDD either from PDD and or from cloud storage system or the like or at least provide the user with access to her profiles and or content from her friend s PDD . In some embodiments the identification and authentication processes might include comparing the user device identification information and or the captured video image and or voice data against all similar identification data for all users subscribers of the cloud service that are stored in cloud storage system . In some cases the process might be facilitated where PDDs and might already be associated with each other e.g. where the user has previously made a video call from PDD to her friend on PDD where the user might have added the friend to the user s contact list and or where the friend might have added the user to the friend s contact list . In other cases the user s PDD might have access to the user s calendar and or communications which might indicate that the user is visiting the friend. The PDD might query control server to determine whether the friend has a PDD associated with the cloud service provider. In this example the PDD determines that PDD is part of the same service and or is in communication with control server and based on such determination PDD and or control server might send the user s profiles and or content to PDD and or provide PDD with access to the user s profiles and or content. In some embodiments the user s profiles and or content or access to profiles and or content might be encrypted and might be released decrypted upon identification and or authentication by PDD and or by control server when the user is detected by PDD . In this manner the user s profiles and or content can follow the user wherever she goes so long as there is a device e.g. PDD that is associated with the same or affiliate cloud service provider at her destination and so long as the device can recognize and authenticate the user.

By the same token if the user is no longer detected by the PDD either after a predetermined number of prompts or queries for the user and or after a predetermined period of time e.g. after a specified number of minutes hours days weeks months etc. PDD and or control server might determine that the user is no longer present at the location of PDD . Based on such a determination PDD and or control server might remove the user s profiles and or media content or access thereto from PDD . As described above a time out system might be utilized. Alternatively other suitable systems may be used for determining the user is no longer present and removing the user s profiles and or media content or access thereto from the PDD

The computer system is shown comprising hardware elements that can be electrically coupled via a bus or may otherwise be in communication as appropriate . The hardware elements may include one or more processors including without limitation one or more general purpose processors and or one or more special purpose processors such as digital signal processing chips graphics acceleration processors and or the like one or more input devices which can include without limitation a mouse a keyboard and or the like and one or more output devices which can include without limitation a display device a printer and or the like.

The computer system may further include and or be in communication with one or more storage devices which can comprise without limitation local and or network accessible storage and or can include without limitation a disk drive a drive array an optical storage device solid state storage device such as a random access memory RAM and or a read only memory ROM which can be programmable flash updateable and or the like. Such storage devices may be configured to implement any appropriate data stores including without limitation various file systems database structures and or the like.

The computer system might also include a communications subsystem which can include without limitation a modem a network card wireless or wired an infra red communication device a wireless communication device and or chipset such as a Bluetooth device an 802.11 device a WiFi device a WiMax device a WWAN device cellular communication facilities etc. and or the like. The communications subsystem may permit data to be exchanged with a network such as the network described below to name one example with other computer systems and or with any other devices described herein. In many embodiments the computer system will further comprise a working memory which can include a RAM or ROM device as described above.

The computer system also may comprise software elements shown as being currently located within the working memory including an operating system device drivers executable libraries and or other code such as one or more application programs which may comprise computer programs provided by various embodiments and or may be designed to implement methods and or configure systems provided by other embodiments as described herein. Merely by way of example one or more procedures described with respect to the method s discussed above might be implemented as code and or instructions executable by a computer and or a processor within a computer in an aspect then such code and or instructions can be used to configure and or adapt a general purpose computer or other device to perform one or more operations in accordance with the described methods.

A set of these instructions and or code might be encoded and or stored on a computer readable storage medium such as the storage device s described above. In some cases the storage medium might be incorporated within a computer system such as the system . In other embodiments the storage medium might be separate from a computer system i.e. a removable medium such as a compact disc etc. and or provided in an installation package such that the storage medium can be used to program configure and or adapt a general purpose computer with the instructions code stored thereon. These instructions might take the form of executable code which is executable by the computer system and or might take the form of source and or installable code which upon compilation and or installation on the computer system e.g. using any of a variety of generally available compilers installation programs compression decompression utilities etc. then takes the form of executable code.

It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that substantial variations may be made in accordance with specific requirements. For example customized hardware such as programmable logic controllers field programmable gate arrays application specific integrated circuits and or the like might also be used and or particular elements might be implemented in hardware software including portable software such as applets etc. or both. Further connection to other computing devices such as network input output devices may be employed.

As mentioned above in one aspect some embodiments may employ a computer system such as the computer system to perform methods in accordance with various embodiments of the invention. According to a set of embodiments some or all of the procedures of such methods are performed by the computer system in response to processor executing one or more sequences of one or more instructions which might be incorporated into the operating system and or other code such as an application program contained in the working memory . Such instructions may be read into the working memory from another computer readable medium such as one or more of the storage device s . Merely by way of example execution of the sequences of instructions contained in the working memory might cause the processor s to perform one or more procedures of the methods described herein.

According to some embodiments system might further comprise one or more sensors which might include without limitation one or more cameras one or more IR sensors and or one or more 3D sensors or the like. In some cases the one or more sensors might be incorporated in or might otherwise be one of the input device s . The output device s might in some embodiments further include one or more monitors one or more TVs and or one or more display screens or the like.

The terms machine readable medium and computer readable medium as used herein refer to any medium that participates in providing data that causes a machine to operate in a specific fashion. In an embodiment implemented using the computer system various computer readable media might be involved in providing instructions code to processor s for execution and or might be used to store and or carry such instructions code e.g. as signals . In many implementations a computer readable medium is a non transitory physical and or tangible storage medium. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media includes for example optical and or magnetic disks such as the storage device s . Volatile media includes without limitation dynamic memory such as the working memory . Transmission media includes without limitation coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including the wires that comprise the bus as well as the various components of the communication subsystem and or the media by which the communications subsystem provides communication with other devices . Hence transmission media can also take the form of waves including without limitation radio acoustic and or light waves such as those generated during radio wave and infra red data communications .

Common forms of physical and or tangible computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk a hard disk magnetic tape or any other magnetic medium a CD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes a RAM a PROM an EPROM a FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave as described hereinafter or any other medium from which a computer can read instructions and or code.

Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying one or more sequences of one or more instructions to the processor s for execution. Merely by way of example the instructions may initially be carried on a magnetic disk and or optical disc of a remote computer. A remote computer might load the instructions into its dynamic memory and send the instructions as signals over a transmission medium to be received and or executed by the computer system . These signals which might be in the form of electromagnetic signals acoustic signals optical signals and or the like are all examples of carrier waves on which instructions can be encoded in accordance with various embodiments of the invention.

The communications subsystem and or components thereof generally will receive the signals and the bus then might carry the signals and or the data instructions etc. carried by the signals to the working memory from which the processor s retrieves and executes the instructions. The instructions received by the working memory may optionally be stored on a storage device either before or after execution by the processor s .

As noted above a set of embodiments comprises systems collecting presence information and or delivering information including without limitation profiles and or content to a user on a user device based on presence information regardless of whether the user device is owned by and or associated with the user. illustrates a schematic diagram of a system that can be used in accordance with one set of embodiments. The system can include one or more user computers . In particular a user computer can be a PDD as described above. More generally a user computer can be a general purpose personal computer including merely by way of example desktop computers workstations tablet computers laptop computers handheld computers mobile phones smart phones and the like running any appropriate operating system several of which are available from vendors such as Apple Microsoft Corp. as well as a variety of commercially available UNIX or UNIX like operating systems. A user computer can also have any of a variety of applications including one or more applications configured to perform methods provided by various embodiments as described above for example as well as one or more office applications database client and or server applications and or web browser applications. Alternatively a user computer can be any other electronic device such as a thin client computer Internet enabled mobile telephone and or personal digital assistant capable of communicating via a network e.g. the network described below and or of displaying and navigating web pages or other types of electronic documents. Although the exemplary system is shown with two user computers any number of user computers can be supported.

Certain embodiments operate in a networked environment which can include a network . The network can be any type of network familiar to those skilled in the art that can support data communications using any of a variety of commercially available and or free or proprietary protocols including without limitation TCP IP SNA IPX AppleTalk and the like. Merely by way of example the network can include a local area network LAN including without limitation a fiber network an Ethernet network a Token Ring network and or the like a wide area network a wireless wide area network WWAN a virtual network such as a virtual private network VPN the Internet an intranet an extranet a public switched telephone network PSTN an infra red network a wireless network including without limitation a network operating under any of the IEEE 802.11 suite of protocols the Bluetooth protocol known in the art and or any other wireless protocol and or any combination of these and or other networks.

Embodiments can also include one or more server computers . Each of the server computers may be configured with an operating system including without limitation any of those discussed above with respect to the user computers as well as any commercially or freely available server operating systems. Each of the servers may also be running one or more applications which can be configured to provide services to one or more clients and or other servers .

Merely by way of example one of the servers might be a control server with the functionality described above. In another embodiment one of the servers might be a web server which can be used merely by way of example to provide communication between a user computer and a control server for example to process requests for web pages or other electronic documents from user computers and or to provide user input to the control server. The web server can also run a variety of server applications including HTTP servers FTP servers CGI servers database servers Java servers and the like. In some embodiments of the invention the web server may be configured to serve web pages that can be operated within a web browser on one or more of the user computers to perform operations in accordance with methods provided by various embodiments.

The server computers in some embodiments might include one or more application servers which can be configured with one or more applications accessible by a client running on one or more of the client computers and or other servers . Merely by way of example the server s can be one or more general purpose computers capable of executing programs or scripts in response to the user computers and or other servers including without limitation web applications which might in some cases be configured to perform methods provided by various embodiments . Merely by way of example a web application can be implemented as one or more scripts or programs written in any suitable programming language such as Java C C or C and or any scripting language such as Perl Python or TCL as well as combinations of any programming and or scripting languages. The application server s can also include database servers including without limitation those commercially available from Oracle Microsoft Sybase IBM and the like which can process requests from clients including depending on the configuration dedicated database clients API clients web browsers etc. running on a user computer and or another server . In some embodiments an application server can create web pages dynamically for displaying the information in accordance with various embodiments such as providing a user interface for a control server as described above. Data provided by an application server may be formatted as one or more web pages comprising HTML JavaScript etc. for example and or may be forwarded to a user computer via a web server as described above for example . Similarly a web server might receive web page requests and or input data from a user computer and or forward the web page requests and or input data to an application server. In some cases a web server may be integrated with an application server.

In accordance with further embodiments one or more servers can function as a file server and or can include one or more of the files e.g. application code data files etc. necessary to implement various disclosed methods incorporated by an application running on a user computer and or another server . Alternatively as those skilled in the art will appreciate a file server can include all necessary files allowing such an application to be invoked remotely by a user computer and or server .

It should be noted that the functions described with respect to various servers herein e.g. application server database server web server file server etc. can be performed by a single server and or a plurality of specialized servers depending on implementation specific needs and parameters. Further as noted above the functionality of one or more servers might be implemented by one or more containers or virtual machines operating in a cloud environment and or a distributed cloud like environment based on shared resources of a plurality of user PDDs.

In certain embodiments the system can include one or more data stores . The nature and location of the data stores is discretionary merely by way of example one data store might comprise a database that stores information about master accounts assigned PDDs etc. Alternatively and or additionally a data store might be a cloud storage environment for storing uploaded images and or video. As the skilled reader can appreciate the database and the cloud storage environment might be collocated and or separate from one another. Some or all of the data stores might reside on a storage medium local to and or resident in a server . Conversely any of the data stores and especially the cloud storage environment might be remote from any or all of the computers so long as it can be in communication e.g. via the network with one or more of these. In a particular set of embodiments a database can reside in a storage area network SAN familiar to those skilled in the art and or the cloud storage environment might comprise one or more SANs. Likewise any necessary files for performing the functions attributed to the computers can be stored locally on the respective computer and or remotely as appropriate. In one set of embodiments the database can be a relational database such as an Oracle database that is adapted to store update and retrieve data in response to SQL formatted commands. The database might be controlled and or maintained by a database server as described above for example.

As noted above the system can also include one or more PDDs . Although only two such devices are illustrated in it should be appreciated that any number of PDDs can be controlled in accordance with various embodiments. Using the techniques described herein a control server can control the operation of the PDD s e.g. by performing operations in accordance with the methods described above. The one or more PDDs may also be established as distributed infrastructure elements for cloud computing cloud based application hosting and or cloud based data storage in accordance with the various embodiments described in detail in the Distributed Infrastructure Application already incorporated herein . The one or more PDDs might also serve the one or more functions of server and or database as described in detail above.

While certain features and aspects have been described with respect to exemplary embodiments one skilled in the art will recognize that numerous modifications are possible. For example the methods and processes described herein may be implemented using hardware components software components and or any combination thereof. Further while various methods and processes described herein may be described with respect to particular structural and or functional components for ease of description methods provided by various embodiments are not limited to any particular structural and or functional architecture but instead can be implemented on any suitable hardware firmware and or software configuration. Similarly while certain functionality is ascribed to certain system components unless the context dictates otherwise this functionality can be distributed among various other system components in accordance with the several embodiments.

Moreover while the procedures of the methods and processes described herein are described in a particular order for ease of description unless the context dictates otherwise various procedures may be reordered added and or omitted in accordance with various embodiments. Moreover the procedures described with respect to one method or process may be incorporated within other described methods or processes likewise system components described according to a particular structural architecture and or with respect to one system may be organized in alternative structural architectures and or incorporated within other described systems. Hence while various embodiments are described with or without certain features for ease of description and to illustrate exemplary aspects of those embodiments the various components and or features described herein with respect to a particular embodiment can be substituted added and or subtracted from among other described embodiments unless the context dictates otherwise. Consequently although several exemplary embodiments are described above it will be appreciated that the invention is intended to cover all modifications and equivalents within the scope of the following claims.

