---

title: Methods and systems for displaying text using RSVP
abstract: The disclosure describes systems and methods related to moving object content that is enhanced with textual content presented using rapid serial visual presentation (“RSVP”). In one embodiment, video content is enhanced with RSPV content. Related embodiments provide systems and methods for displaying, creating, and editing such content. A particular embodiment provides for RSPV enhanced video previews. In another embodiment, augmented reality content is enhanced with RSVP content. In some embodiments, RSPV enhanced moving object content is provided on various end user electronic devices including smart phones, smart watches, and head mounted displays. These and other embodiments are disclosed further herein.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09483109&OS=09483109&RS=09483109
owner: Spritz Technology, Inc.
number: 09483109
owner_city: Salt Lake City
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130617
---
This application is a continuation in part of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 730 163 filed on Dec. 28 2012. This application is also related to U.S. application Ser. No. 13 547 982 filed on Jul. 12 2012. The entire disclosures of both of these applications are hereby incorporated by reference.

The present invention relates to apparatuses and methods for enabling improved display of textual content on an electronic display.

Communications devices including PCs smartphones tablets e readers etc. continue to grow in popularity and have become an integral part of both personal and business communications. As a result users continue to spend more time using their communications devices during the course of a day reading e mails reading web sites sending short message service SMS messages etc.

Rapid serial visual presentation RSVP is a method of displaying textual content in which each word of the textual content is displayed in sequential order one at a time at a certain display rate at a fixed location on a display. RSVP was first introduced in the 1970s as a technique for presenting text one word at a time in a display. Many references since then have provided information on the use of RSVP in a variety of applications. Commercially available products based on RSVP include Zap Reader www.zapreader.com reader and Spreeder www.spreeder.com . Some prior methods exist for improving the effectiveness of an RSVP by varying the display time of a word in the display based on word length and word type see U.S. Pat. No. 6 130 968 to McIan et al. McIan and based on word frequency see WO 37256 by Goldstein et al. Goldstein 2002 . While these techniques are beneficial in improving comprehension of the displayed text new techniques and methods are needed to further increase a user s reading speed and improve the presentation of dense content on electronic displays.

Isolated efforts have also been made to apply RSVP to particular applications e.g. email applications in mobile communications devices see US 2011 0115819 to Hanson . However the challenges and opportunities for integrating RSVP into user interfaces for increasing the density of displayable content remain largely unexplored.

Despite heavy technological digital advances the illustration of textual information on electronic displays has not fundamentally changed. Textual information is typically displayed in lines such that the reader s eye moves sequentially from word to word. However interacting with text displayed in the traditional manner on a communications device and particularly a mobile communications device presents certain inconveniences to a user. For example the display area of a mobile communications device may be limited which may increase the time spent reading an e mail or a web site as the user may have to scroll through multiple pages to read the entire e mail or web site.

Previous implementations of Rapid Serial Visual Presentation RSVP do not address using RSVP to improve user access to information from a homescreen e.g. a homescreen of a smartphone running a mobile operating system such as iOS Android or Windows Phone or a desktop screen of a PC laptop etc. running an operating system such as Windows or Mac OS or a homescreen desktop screen of an intermediate portable device such as notepad touchpad etc running a corresponding operating system all referenced herein as simply a homescreen for simplicity user interface or how to best integrate RSVP into a variety of applications. Given the increasing reliance on small screen devices particularly mobile communication devices but also notebook computers and other highly portable computing devices for a variety of purposes there is a growing need to efficiently utilize screen space within user interfaces. Moreover even with respect to larger screen devices there are unexplored opportunities to create more efficient interfaces by incorporating RSVP techniques. Embodiments of the invention relate to electronic interfaces that effectively utilize RSVP to improve user access to information.

In one embodiment a communications device displays a first icon representing a notification event associated with an application by displaying the first icon with an icon representing the application. The first icon further represents a presence of content that is displayable using RSVP. The communications device receives a first user interface action to select the notification event and in response to the first user interface action displays textual content associated with the notification event in a designated display area using RSVP. The RSVP content may contain embedded text a uniform resource locator URL or an attachment. If the user selects embedded text the RSVP content corresponding to the embedded text may be displayed in the designated display area using RSVP. In one embodiment if the user selects a URL the contents of the webpage corresponding to the URL may be displayed in the designated display area using RSVP. Alternatively the webpage may be displayed by a browser application. If the user selects an attachment an application associated with the attachment may be launched to open the attachment. For example if the attachment is a photo a photo viewer application may be launched to open the photo.

In another embodiment the communications device displays a first icon within an application interface. The first icon represents presence of textual content that is displayable using RSVP. The communications device receives a first user interface action to select the first icon and in response to the first user interface action displays the textual content in a designated display area using RSVP. In an alternative to this embodiment an application interface is configurable so that any selectable item within the application interface that is associated with textual content may have that content displayed using RSVP when the item is selected.

In yet another embodiment a search query is received by at least one server computer. At least one search result corresponding to the search query is transmitted to a browser application for display in the browser application on a user device. The search result is configured to be displayed by the browser application with an icon representing presence of content corresponding to the at least one search result that is displayable using RSVP.

In yet another embodiment RSVP content may be embedded in a map photo diagram video presentation etc. A map photo diagram video or presentation may be displayed by the appropriate application. A user may specify whether to add global RSVP content and or local RSVP content. If the user chooses to add global e.g. in reference to a document in its entirety RSVP content an interface which allows the user to add the global RSVP content may be displayed. If the user chooses to add local RSVP content an interface which allows the user to specify location s element s and or text selection and add the corresponding local RSVP content to be displayed. For example the user may specify locations on photos maps etc. or specify elements or objects in photos diagrams videos and presentations etc. In one embodiment the interface may also allow selection of text such that RSVP content may be associated with the selected text. In the case of a photo in addition to specifying locations on the photo the user may select areas of the photo such as for example a face of a person.

There is also a need to minimize the need to download or stream large amounts of content to a wireless device especially prior to a user making a consumption decision regarding the content. Multimedia content including video and or audio is an example of a type of content that creates such issues. This is particularly a problem when accessing such files on wireless devices which often have more limited bandwidth and or lower imposed data limits on services than do devices with a hardline connection. Therefore another embodiment of the present invention provides an interface for receiving information about video and other multi media content via RSVP display without having to download and or stream the content. In a particular embodiment a video item in a list of video items is selectable to initiate display of information via RSVP regarding that video item. In a particular embodiment at least a portion of the list of video items remained displayed while information is displayed via RSPV regarding the selected item.

There is also often a need to provide textual content that is associated with video particularly given the increasingly interactive nature online video sharing. However existing methods of providing textual content associated with video include a first method in which text is provided entirely outside of the video display window e.g. in comments areas below the video window and a second method in which text is provided within the video interface using traditional line by line text presentation e.g. subtitles . Both of these methods have disadvantages. In the first method because the text is provide outside the video window the user must look away from the video content to view the text. Also this method generally is not convenient for associating text with a particular time portion of the video content. In the second method because the text is presented for traditional left to right or right to left reading it necessarily obscures a significant portion of the video window. Also because the traditional method of text presentation does not allow for the fastest reading speeds with a high level of comprehension consuming text by traditional methods during a video is more disruptive of video content than would be necessary using the improved methods of certain embodiments of the present invention.

Therefore in another embodiment RSVP content is embedded in video content for display at selected points during the video. A particular embodiment provides one or more icons i.e. any form of visual indicator along a video timeline bar that can be selected to view text via RSVP that is associated with that portion of the video. Another particular embodiment displays one or more icons within the video content that are selectable to view RSVP content associated with that portion of the video content. In another particular embodiment one or more icons are placed on and track one or more recognized objects within the video content the one or more icons being selectable to view RSVP content associated with the corresponding video object. In one version of this embodiment the icon remains displayed on a moving video object while the object remains displayed in the video. Some embodiments are configured such that RSVP content embedded in or otherwise associated with a video file displays automatically at particular times during video playback without the need for user selection or such that automatic RSVP content display is a default or non default selectable setting that may be altered via a user settings interface. In another embodiment a preview version of a video is provided that displays short clips of different portions of the video after or alternatively either before or while displaying RSVP content associated with those clips to provide efficient low data video previews while enhancing the information provided to the user. A related embodiment is provided for adding RSVP content to videos and for creating video previews that include RSVP content.

In one embodiment of the invention RSVP content is provided within an interface of an augmented reality application. A particular embodiment displays one or more icons on or near one or more real world objects viewed through the augmented reality application the one or more icons being selectable to view RSVP content associated the corresponding real world object.

Some embodiments of the invention are implemented in or with particular types of user devices such as for example desktop computers and portable electronic devices such as mobile phones smartphones multi media players e readers tablet touchpad notebook or laptop PCs smart watches smart televisions and other communication devices. Some embodiments of the invention include implementation in particular types of electronic devices including for example smart glasses and other types of head mounted displays.

The present description is made with reference to the accompanying drawings in which various example embodiments are shown. However many different example embodiments may be used and thus the description should not be construed as limited to the example embodiments set forth herein. Rather these example embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete. Various modifications to the exemplary embodiments will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and the generic principles defined herein may be applied to other embodiments and applications without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosure. Thus the present disclosure is not intended to be limited to the embodiments shown but is to be accorded the widest scope consistent with the principles and features disclosed herein.

Referring now to there is shown a diagram of an illustrative computer system in accordance with an exemplary embodiment. In this embodiment the text display system is implemented on an end user device which is configured by computer program product in accordance with an exemplary embodiment. Computer program product may be provided in a transitory or non transitory computer readable medium however in a particular embodiment it is provided in a non transitory computer readable medium e.g. persistent i.e. non volatile storage volatile memory e.g. random access memory or various other well known non transitory computer readable mediums .

End user device includes a display . In some embodiments display may be configured to accept touch input. Computer program product configures device to serially present text in a designated rapid serial visual presentation RSVP display area on display for convenience referenced herein simply as DRDA . User device may include any type of electronic device capable of controlling text display. Some examples include desktop computers and portable electronic devices such as mobile phones smartphones multi media players e readers tablet touchpad notebook or laptop PCs smart televisions smart watches head mounted displays and other communication devices. In some implementations e.g. a smart phone or e reader the display may be packaged together with the rest of device . However in other implementations a separate display device e.g. a monitor maybe be attached to device . While the illustrated embodiment shows a graphical border around DRDA DRDA simply refers to a region e.g. a window on display where text is serially presented in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention and in particular implementations DRDA may or may not be outlined by a graphical border.

In one embodiment user device has typical computer components including a processor memory storage and an input output subsystem. In some implementations e.g. a smart phone or e reader user device may include a wireless transceiver and one or more input interfaces including a touch enabled display a trackball keyboard microphone smart television controller etc. In the illustrated embodiment computer program product is loaded into memory not separately shown to configure device in accordance with the present invention. In one embodiment text data may be loaded into memory for text processing and display processing by device as will be further described herein. Text data loaded into memory for text processing and display processing may be retrieved from persistent storage on a user device such as device and or may be received from one or more server computers through a connection to network e.g. the Internet . One or more server computers may be for example one or more advertiser computers one or more search engine computers one or more web servers one or more application servers etc. In an alternative embodiment at least some processing pre processing of text data for display in accordance with the principles illustrated herein may be carried out by one or more remote computers such as server computers and then sent to end user device for display in DRDA on display . In such an alternative some or all of a computer program product such as computer program product for implementing an embodiment of the present invention may reside on one or more computers such as server computers that are remote from end user device . In some embodiments the entire computer program product may be stored and executed on remote computers and the results presented within a browser application component e.g. a media player application of user device browser application and media player application not separately shown .

In an embodiment of the invention text which includes for example strings of characters e.g. letters numbers symbols etc. which constitute words numeric figures and combinations of both with punctuation marks and symbols note that words may include words represented by any human language including without limitation words represented by roman characters script elements or pictographic characters is presented serially for example one word at a time within DRDA . As referenced herein a display element will refer to a group of text data that is displayed at one time within DRDA . In other words display elements are displayed serially. In the primary embodiment discussed herein a display element will generally consist of one word. However in alternative embodiments two words may be presented as a single display element. Also in the primary embodiment two words are sometimes part of a single display element such as for example when a number e.g. 9 is displayed together with a unit e.g. feet so that for example the text 9 feet may constitute a single display element and be presented together.

In a conventional RSVP system each word is centered in the display area and the optimal fixation position shifts as words of differing lengths are sequentially displayed resulting in saccade movements as the eyes shift to the optimal fixation position. The reader has to refocus on the display every time a new word appears that is of a different length than the previous word. The reader s eyes will move from one character to the next to find the optimal position which is also referred to as a recovery saccade. In addition when a longer word follows a shorter one the saccadic movement direction will be from right to left. When reading text in lines in a traditional paragraph display most saccadic movement is from left to right so the reader is accustomed to this type of eye movement. Only occasionally if the optimal fixation position is not found directly the reader may have to move back from right to left. Thus conventional RSVP forces the reader to experience saccades which are not normal. Conventional RSVP approaches offer no solution to these problems. In order to prevent or minimize recovery saccades in an RSVP it is preferable to display each word such that the optimal fixation position does not shift in the display. The focal point of the reader can then remain fixed on the optimal fixation position which is a specific point in each word that is determined by the total number of characters or width of the word. This optimal recognition position hereinafter referred to as the ORP can be identified in the display such that the reader s eyes are directed to focus there as the words are serially presented. An RSVP which incorporates an ORP is hereinafter referred to as ORP RSVP. With an ORP RSVP text can then be presented at a faster rate because no saccades occur during the presentation. In addition the elimination of saccades reduces eye fatigue and makes it more comfortable resulting in a better reading experience for the user. Embodiments described herein may be implemented using conventional RSVP or ORP RSVP.

In addition words are rarely greater than 13 characters according to Sigurd only 0.4 of the words in the English language are longer than 13 characters see Sigurd B. et al Word Length Sentence Length and Frequency ZIPF Revisited Studia Lingustica 58 1 pp. 37 52 Blackwell Publishing Ltd Oxford UK 2004 and therefore for the vast majority of words it is preferable to limit the number of characters to the right side of the fixation point to 8 characters. Also in some embodiments a word having a length of greater than thirteen characters is divided into first and second display elements such that a first portion of the word is displayed first along with a hyphen and then the second portion of the word is displayed next. In some embodiments an empirically determined ORP of each display element is presented at a fixed location of the DRDA . For example each word of a plurality of words is serially presented and positioned in the display such that the ORP is displayed at a fixed display location within DRDA and this enables recognition of each word in succession with minimal saccade by the reader. Determining and displaying the ORP for display elements and presenting display elements within DRDA is described in more detail in co pending U.S. application Ser. No. 13 547 982 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 903 174 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. In general one method of displaying display elements using the ORP method involves displaying a word such that the fixed display location is offset so that it is closer to the beginning of the word than to the end of the word particularly if the word is greater that a certain number of characters. Research has demonstrated that it is possible to get information about a word from up to 4 characters from the left side of the fixation position and up to 15 characters to the right side resulting in a perceptual span of 20 characters and that the maximum character length of a word without saccade movement is 20 characters. The DRDA can accommodate text of up to 20 characters in lenght without saccades although it is preferred to limit the display to 13 characters for improved comprehension. For example using one embodiment of an ORP character method a word four or five characters long would be displayed with the second character at the fixed display location. A word six seven eight or nine characters in length would be displayed with the third character at the fixed display location. A word that is ten eleven twelve or thirteen characters long would be displayed with the fourth character at the fixed display location. Words longer than 13 characters may be hyphenated as described above or for words 14 20 characters in length for example displayed with their fifth character at the fixed display location.

Instead of using whole characters proportionate positions may be used in conjunction with a physical width of a word as displayed e.g. in pixels to determine at a pixel level rather than simply using the middle of an OPR character an ORP of a word to place at the fixed display location. In one embodiment this approach can help account for the effect of proportionally spaced fonts . In one such a method also disclosed in the above reference co pending patent application an optimal recognition position is calculated as a proportion of a word s length in pixels and a pixel offset can be used to place such a calculated optimal recognition proportionate positing of the word at the fixed display location.

Therefore some embodiments of the present invention incorporate a method for serially displaying text on an electronic display comprising identifying an ORP for a plurality of words to be displayed and serially displaying the plurality of words such that the ORP of each word is displayed at a fixed display location on the electronic display. In one embodiment the ORP is identified as a character in the word. In another embodiment the ORP is identified as a proportionate position relative to the width of the word in pixels. In some embodiments visual aids are used to mark the fixed display location see e.g. hash marks in and or an ORP within the word e.g. different colored font .

In one embodiment configuring text content for RSVP display comprises parsing text into a plurality of display elements inserting blank elements at the end of a sentence and determining a multiplier for each display element that can be used along with user selected settings and or other display parameters to determine a display time for each display element. While in alternative embodiments it is possible to display each element for the same amount of time it has been demonstrated empirically that a longer display time is beneficial for comprehension of longer words. It has also been demonstrated empirically that a longer pause between sentences is beneficial for comprehension of longer sentences. Further details of certain exemplary systems and methods for preparing and displaying text using RSVP are described in co pending U.S. application Ser. No. 13 547 982 referenced above.

User device includes a desktop homescreen manager to control various elements to be displayed on a homescreen e.g. a homescreen of a smartphone running a mobile operating system such as iOS Android or Windows Phone or a desktop display of a PC laptop etc. running an operating system such as Windows or Mac OS or a homescreen desktop screen of an intermediate portable device such as notepad touchpad etc running a corresponding operating system all referenced herein as simply a homescreen for simplicity . For example desktop homescreen manager may control the icons widgets tiles windows folders etc. and other information that may be displayed on a traditional computer desktop or on a homescreen e.g. of a smart phone tablet smart television smart watch head mounted display etc. . An input manager manages inputs received from one or more input mechanisms such as a touch screen trackball keyboard mouse microphone eye tracking a gesture detector or other natural interface input detector smart television controllers etc. For example text input may be provided using a virtual i.e. touch screen or physical keyboard mouse trackball etc. Alternatively or in addition a user may provide voice speech input via a microphone which may then be converted to text. Various applications including for example applications and may run on the device and may provide data to be displayed through desktop homescreen manager .

Various messages e.g. email SMS may be received over a network such as a wireless communications network connected to the Internet via a wireless interface not shown . Information received from the network such as from one or more remote servers may be provided to the applications by event manager and information may be passed from the applications back to the network. Event manager may manage notification events that are presented to a user e.g. through display . For example event manager may receive notification events from the wireless network. Notification events may include for example receipt of text messages emails voicemails social network updates file transfers etc. The event manager may in turn forward the notification events to corresponding applications. For example an email notification may be forwarded to the email application. The application may then instruct the desktop or homescreen manager to display status or notification information to alert the user.

As will be described in further detail below RSVP library allows user device to present display elements using RSVP. In accordance with an exemplary embodiment applications and which may be a word processing application a spreadsheet application a photo application a video application an augmented reality application a map application a webpage editor a browser application etc. may communicate with RSVP library through a RSVP application programming interface API such as API . As will be apparent to one of skill in the art an API is an interface used by software components to communicate with each other. In one embodiment each application and may include application specific RSVP software such as RSVP software and respectively which may allow applications and to detect presence of RSVP content. Upon detecting RSVP content RSVP software such as RSVP software and or may call RSVP library via the API. In response RSVP library may display RSVP notification markers icons display DRDA display RSVP content in DRDA etc. In an alternate embodiment the application specific RSVP software such as RSVP software and or may instead be included in RSVP library . In one embodiment application specific RSVP software such as RSVP software and may additionally include logic to allow embedding of textual content within a file. Embedding textual content in a file is described in more detail in the description of and

In yet another embodiment for certain applications notification markers icons may not be displayed. For example for SMS and or email applications where notification events typically include textual content RSVP display may be enabled by default such that content associated with all notification events for these applications may be displayed using RSVP upon user selection of a notification event or upon user interaction with a selectable item e.g. an email or a text message . As another example even when an underlying application s content is non textual the content items may be known to be associated with textual descriptions. For example a video application icon on a homescreen may be enabled to display textual descriptions using RSVP of new or featured video items by default from a home screen such that the video application s icon is selectable for RSVP display of such descriptions by default without the need for a separate RSVP specific notification marker.

In the example illustrated in if the user selects notification marker icon DRDA may be displayed on homescreen and DRDA may display using RSVP the first of two SMS messages which reads Martina please call me. It should be noted that illustrate time sequence snapshots of the content displayed in DRDA . For example shows that DRDA displays Martina at time shows that DRDA displays please at second time shows that DRDA displays call at third time and shows that DRDA displays me at fourth time. DRDA may display an ORP of each word at a fixed display location between hash marks . As previously discussed an empirically determined ORP of each display element may be presented at a fixed location of DRDA the fixed display location being between hash marks . It should be noted that hash marks are shown in some but not all subsequent figures to avoid overcomplicating the figures and particular embodiments of the invention may be implemented using either ORP RSVP or conventional RSVP. In addition although DRDA is shown displayed on top of the display DRDA may be positioned in any portion of the display. Although the embodiment illustrated in shows display of textual content associated with a notification event using RSVP on a homescreen in some embodiments content may be displayed using RSVP on a screen other than the homescreen such as for example a lock screen. As will be apparent to one of skill in the art notification events are often displayed on a lock screen. In such an instance selecting the notification s on the lock screen may result in content associated with the notification event being displayed in a DRDA using RSVP on the lock screen. 

Upon user selection of notification marker icon DRDA may be displayed as shown in and Free breakfast may be displayed using RSVP in DRDA . It should be noted that illustrate time sequence snapshots of the content displayed in DRDA . For example shows that DRDA displays Free at time and shows that DRDA displays breakfast at second time.

However if the notification event is determined to be displayable using RSVP a notification marker icon may be displayed in step . In one embodiment the notification marker icon may be overlaid on top of the icon representing the corresponding application see . In other embodiments the notification marker icon may be displayed adjacent to above or below the icon representing the corresponding application. As previously described the notification marker icon may also include a numerical indicator which may correspond to the number of notification events for the corresponding application. The notification marker icon may be selected in response to user input received at step . The user input may include for example a touch and hold of the notification marker icon a tap of the notification marker icon a selection of the notification marker icon using a mouse or trackball etc. As previously discussed in some embodiments a notification marker icon may be selected by simply hovering over the notification marker icon. In response to user selection of the notification marker icon the designated RSVP display area DRDA may be displayed in step . Textual content associated with the notification event may be displayed using RSVP in the DRDA in step . In one embodiment the textual content associated with the notification event may be displayed in the DRDA as long as appropriate user input is present. For example in the case where appropriate user input is a press and hold of the notification icon marker if the user releases the notification icon marker the DRDA stops displaying the RSVP content and is then hidden. In one embodiment the amount and type of content that gets displayed in DRDA may be defined or selected in RSVP Settings . For example in the case of an email it may be selected that the sender name subject of the email and the body of the email may be displayed using RSVP in DRDA. Alternatively it may be selected that only the sender name and subject of the email be displayed using RSVP in DRDA. In some embodiments RSVP content may contain additional embedded RSVP content as illustrated in for example . It may be determined in step if additional embedded text is present. If so a notification e.g. notification in may be displayed in step . In response to user input received at step the additional embedded text may be displayed in DRDA using RSVP. In some embodiments steps and may be optional. In other words all available RSVP content may be automatically displayed sequentially without awaiting user input.

If it is determined in step that a URL is included in the RSVP content an indication of the presence of a URL is displayed in step as shown in . User input indicating selection of the URL is received in step . In one embodiment the webpage corresponding to the URL may contain RSVP content. As previously described RSVP content may be embedded in a webpage using for example a HTML tag. It is determined in step if the webpage corresponding to the URL contains RSVP content. If it is determined that the webpage does not contain RSVP content the DRDA is hidden and a browser application is launched in step to display the webpage corresponding to the URL. If however the webpage is determined to contain RSVP content the RSVP content is displayed in the DRDA using RSVP in step .

If it is determined in step that embedded text is included in the RSVP content an indication of the presence of embedded text is displayed in step as shown in . User input indicating selection of the embedded text is received in step . In step the RSVP content is displayed in the DRDA using RSVP.

If it is determined that the file contains no RSVP content the application may proceed as normal in step . For example if the file is a photo and it does not contain RSVP content the application may simply display the photo normally. If however it is determined that the file contains RSVP content the application requests display of notification markers icons in appropriate locations in step . In the example of a photo the notification markers icons may need to be displayed in specific locations on the photo. In one embodiment the application may request for example RSVP library to display the notification markers icons. In another embodiment the application may request the operating system to display the notification markers icons. In yet another embodiment the application may obtain the notification markers icons from RSVP library and display the notification markers icons. In an alternate embodiment step of displaying notification markers icons is optional. A user device may be configured e.g. using RSVP settings in such that certain applications may display all content using RSVP. For example applications such as an email application a SMS application etc. which primarily receive textual data may be configured to display all content using RSVP. In such instances displaying a notification marker icon indicating the presence of RSVP content is not necessary as further described with respect to

Continuing with the description of upon receiving user input comprising selection of a particular notification marker icon at step the application may request display of the DRDA in step . In one embodiment the application may request for example RSVP library to display the DRDA. In another embodiment the application may request the operating system to display the DRDA. In yet another embodiment the application may itself e.g. using RSVP software in display the DRDA. The RSVP content associated with the user selected notification marker icon may be displayed in the DRDA using RSVP in step . It is determined in step if additional RSVP content is present. If so the additional RSVP content may be automatically displayed sequentially. For example as shown in if there are multiple notification markers icons DRDA may automatically sequentially display the RSVP content associated with each marker icon. In another embodiment user input may be requested before displaying RSVP content associated with each marker icon. As previously discussed the RSVP content may include one or more attachments. After displaying RSVP content process may be used to display any attachments included with the RSVP content.

In addition to display advertisements RSVP content may also be incorporated in for example sponsored search results. is a flow chart diagram of a process for configuring search results with RSVP content in accordance with one embodiment of the present invention. One or more servers may receive a search query in step . In response to the search query at least one search result corresponding to the search query may be configured with content that is displayable using RSVP in step . In step the at least one search result may be transmitted to a browser application for display in the browser application. In one embodiment the search result s may be displayed as shown in 

In some embodiments users may embed RSVP content into files such as for example photos presentations maps etc. is a flow chart diagram of a process for embedding RSVP content in a file e.g. map photo diagram presentation word processing document spreadsheet etc. in accordance with one embodiment of the present invention. In step displayable contents of a file may be displayed by the appropriate application. For example a diagram may be displayed in a drawing application e.g. Microsoft Visio or a presentation may be displayed in a presentation application e.g. Microsoft PowerPoint . In some embodiments the application may be a desktop application while in other embodiments the application may be a mobile application or a web based application accessible via a browser. A user may specify whether to add global RSVP content or local RSVP content in step . In one embodiment an interface which allows the user to choose between global and or local RSVP content may be displayed. In some embodiments both local and global RSVP content may be embedded. As used herein global content refers to RSVP content associated with the file e.g. photo map presentation and or diagram in its entirety. In the case of a map in the example shown in notification indicates presence of global RSVP content such as Check out these three restaurants and is associated with the whole displayed map. By contrast notifications and indicate presence of local RSVP content associated with each location specified by notifications and . Similarly in the case of a photo in the example shown in notification indicates presence of global RSVP content such as These are my friends and is associated with the whole photo. By contrast notifications and indicate presence of local RSVP content associated with each location specified by notifications and . In another embodiment global content may include a description of the file s contents. In such an embodiment selecting a file e.g. by clicking on or hovering over the file s icon or name that includes embedded global RSVP content from a file management interface e.g. Windows Explorer or a homescreen may result in the global content being displayed using RSVP. It should be noted that in such an embodiment viewing the global RSVP content does not require opening the file with an associated application.

If the user chooses to add global RSVP content an interface which allows the user to input textual content which will be embedded as global RSVP content is displayed in step . In the embodiment described above where global content includes a description of the file the global content may be provided in the metadata of the file. For example a user may right click the file icon select an option to enter an RSVP description for the file and input the textual content.

User input including textual content may be received in step . In embodiments where text input is required text input may be provided using a virtual i.e. touch screen or physical keyboard mouse trackball etc. Alternatively or in addition the user may provide voice speech input via a microphone. The voice speech input may then be converted to text. If the user chooses to add local RSVP content an interface which allows the user to specify location s element s and or text selection and add the corresponding textual content which will be embedded as local RSVP content is displayed in step . For example the user may specify locations on photos maps etc. specify elements or objects in photos diagrams and presentations etc. User input including specified location s element s and or text selection and add the corresponding textual content may be received in step . In one embodiment the interface may also allow selection of text such that RSVP content may be associated with the selected text. In the case of a photo in addition to specifying locations on the photo the user may select areas of the photo such as for example a face of a person. The location s element s and or text selection information and the corresponding textual content may be saved in step . In one embodiment location s element s and or text selection information and the corresponding textual content may be saved in the meta data of the file. For example in the case of a photo the location s element s and or text selection information and the corresponding textual content may be saved in the EXIF data. In one embodiment the textual content may be saved as plain text in which case the textual data may be converted to RSVP content e.g. text that is configured to be displayed using RSVP prior to displaying. In other embodiments the textual content may be converted to RSVP content and the RSVP content may be saved in the meta data of the file.

As shown in upon user selection of notification marker DRDA may be displayed and as shown in RSVP content related to video item is displayed in DRDA . show time sequence snapshots of the content displayed in DRDA . For example shows that DRDA displays the word People at a first time shows that DRDA displays the word have at a next time and shows that DRDA displays the word played at third time.

As shown in this embodiment allows a user to receive more information about a particular video within the context of a small screen display before deciding whether to leave window and navigate to a new window related to a particular video item. The application interface is able to continue displaying window including the illustrated list of video items while displaying additional information about a selected video item in DRDA . This may be particularly useful in the context of video content applications because once the decision is made to view a particular video a large data stream may be initiated which can take significant time to display and can also spend a significant quantity of data against monthly maximums or otherwise incur additional charges for a user. Also it might be useful for a user to be able to quickly and easily obtain information about a particular video via RSVP text content without having to leave display of window so that a user can quickly learn additional information about several videos before selecting a video for viewing.

Although window shows a list of featured video items in alternative embodiments window may display a list of video items in response to a user search or it may display items automatically recommended for a particular user.

In shows video display window displaying an initial frame of the video My daughter loves walking the dog. As shown display window includes progress bar timeline bar . Markers and are displayed along progress bar to indicate time points in the video that are associated with RSVP content.

When a user selects start icon the video begins playing normally in window . When the video reaches frames associated with RSPV content the RSVP content associated with the relevant marker or becomes displayable in response to a user selection as shown in subsequent figures.

In the illustrated embodiment RSPV content is displayed in response to a user interaction. However an alternative embodiment can be configured to display embedded RSVP content automatically at particular time points in a video.

As shown in the video has progressed to nine seconds into the video and the RSPV content associated with marker has already been displayed in the manner shown in . Marker remains displayed on the identified object and it is now selected by a user interface action. As shown in when the user selects marker DRDA appears and begins displaying RSVP content. show a time sequence as DRDA displays the content associated with display marker . Specifically shows display at a first time of the word she. shows display at a second time of the word calls. shows display at a third time of the word him. shows display at a fourth time of the word Leo. In this particular embodiment the words are displayed such that an optimal recognition position of each word is at a fixed location within DRDA the fixed location being indicated by hash marks . In this particular embodiment the video progress is stopped while the RSVP content is displayed. All the words in the RSVP content associated with marker are displayed while the video is stopped at a frame corresponding to nine second into the video as shown in . However in alternative embodiments RSPV content such as that shown in could be displayed without stopping the video progress.

In this embodiment the RSPV content is displayed at the beginning of the excerpt while the video remains frozen at five seconds into the video. However in alternative embodiments RSVP content associated with an excerpt including in a video preview may be presented before and or during and or after the playing of the video frames of the excerpt.

When a user selects option from menu to insert an RSVP comment a secondary menu appears. Secondary menu includes option for entering a global comment option for inserting a local comment and option for inserting an object comment. If option is selected for inserting a global comment as shown in then a virtual keyboard appears not separately shown and the user can type in a comment that will be associated with the entire video. Such a comment will be displayable by RSVP upon for example selection of an RSVP marker displayed with a representation of the video as a video item included in a list of items as illustrated and described for example in the context of . Alternatively the user may be directed to speak the comment for entry by a speech recognition system not separately shown type the comment into a physical keyboard not separately shown or provide the comment through other known input techniques not separately shown .

Referring to step opens an RSVP enabled video file in response to user input . Step determines whether the file contains any RSVP content. If no then step proceeds to play the video in accordance with the video application s normal i.e. non RSPV video playing execution. If yes the step displays one or more RSVP markers along the video progress bar time line. Step determines whether the user has chosen based on user input to have RSPV content in the video file be played automatically. If no the method proceeds to step of described further below . If yes then step begins playing the video content. In some embodiments user input may be provided after each RSVP enabled video file is opened. In other embodiments user input may be provided through a user settings interface for determining default user preferences with respect to RSVP enabled video playback settings interface not separately shown .

During video playback by step step determines whether the next RSVP location in the video file has been reached. If no then step determines whether the video has finished. If yes then video playback ends at step . If no then step continues playing the video. However if the result of step is yes then step pauses video playback. Step displays the associated RSVP content in a DRDA.

Step determines whether there is RSVP sub content associated with the RSVP content displayed in step . If no then the method proceeds to step . If yes then step display titles for the sub content see e.g. the example shown in . In this embodiment the titles of sub content are shown for 2 seconds. However alternatives may show the titles for different amounts of time. Step determines whether user input has indicated that the user has selected to view the sub content. If no then step changes the marker corresponding to the primary RSVP content to indicate that it has been read e.g. by graying it out as illustrated in previous figures . If yes then step displays the sub content in the DRDA see e.g. as shown in . When the sub content is finished displaying then step changes the RSVP marker as previously described and the method returns to step to continue playing the video while step determines whether the next RSVP content segment has be reached during video playback.

Referring to if RSVP content has not been designated to display automatically in step then step proceeds to play the video in accordance with the video application s normal video playing execution. During video playback step determines whether the next RSVP location in the video file has been reached. If no then step determines whether the video has finished. If yes then video playback ends at step . If no then step continues playing the video. However if the result of step is yes then step determines whether the RSVP content at the current video location is object based e.g. as shown and described in the context of . If yes then step shows an RSPV marker on the relevant object in the video frame. If no then step shows an RSVP marker in the frame in a designated location see e.g. marker in in some embodiments the location may have been designated by an RSVP content author as illustrated in with respect to marker .

Step determines based on user input whether the user has selected to view the RSVP content associated with any of the marker s currently displayed in the video frame. If no then the method returns to step . If yes then step pauses video playing and step displays the corresponding textual content in a DRDA using RSVP.

Step determines whether there is RSVP sub content associated with the RSVP content displayed in step . If no then the method proceeds to step . If yes then step display titles for the sub content. Step determines whether user input has indicated that the user has selected to view the sub content. If no then step changes the marker corresponding to the primary RSVP content to indicate that it has been read e.g. by graying it out as illustrated in previous figures . If yes then step displays the sub content in the DRDA. When the sub content is finished displaying then step changes the RSVP marker as previously described and the method returns to step to continue playing the video while step determines whether the next RSVP content segment has been reached during video playback.

Method may be implemented for example on a user device executing a video editing annotating application such as application of that is enabled to process RSPV content by RSVP software which utilizes RSVP library .

Referring to step opens the video to which RSVP content is to be added. Step determines based on user input whether the user has selected to add or edit RSPV content related objects in the video. If yes then the method proceeds to step shown and described below in the context of . If no then the method proceeds to step . Step determines based on user input whether the user has selected to add or edit a global RSVP comment. If yes then step displays an interface for the user to provide input to add or edit a global comment to the video that will be displayable by RSVP. The method then proceeds to step . If the result of step is no then the method proceeds to step directly.

Step determines based on user input whether RSVP content is to be added to the video timeline to make the content displayable as a particular time in the video. If no the step saves the video and exits. If yes the step advances the video based on user input e.g. selecting a point on a progress bar to the time location in the video where the RSVP content is to be added. Step then displays an interface to the user to add content to be displayed via RSPV. As described previously in the context of such an interface may include a virtual keyboard speech recognition interface or other user interfaces for entering or editing textual content. Step receives user input that enters or edits textual content that is to be displayable to a content consumer via RSVP. Step then determines whether the user would like to add any secondary RSVP content. As previously described in the context of indicators for such additional content may be provided at the end of a primary RSVP display so that a content consumer can determine whether to select to view the additional content. The concepts illustrated there also apply to RSVP content added to video.

If the result of step is yes then step displays an interface to receive user input to add secondary content to be displayable by RSPV. The method then proceeds to step to receive the entered content. The method then proceeds to step . If the result of step is no then the method proceeds directly to step . Step based on user input selects how many frames should be associated with the currently entered RSPV content including the primary RSPV content received at step and any secondary content received at step . In various alternatives the frames may be represented by the number of frames or in a time duration of associated video content. The method then returns to step .

If the result of step is yes then step displays an interface to receive user input to add secondary content to be displayable by RSPV. The method then proceeds to step to save the RSVP entered content and any secondary entered RSPV content along with the identified object hotspot and to place an associated marker on the video timeline bar. If the result of step is no then the method proceeds directly to step . The method then proceeds to step to determine based on user input whether the user would like to add any more RSPV content to objects in the video. If the result of step is yes then the method returns to step . If the result of step is no then step saves the video and the process ends.

Step opens the video preview which may be a separate file or data stream distinct from the underlying video that is the subject of the preview while at the same time typically containing a portion of the same of the same content included in the underlying video . Step determines if the preview has any RSVP content. If no then step displays the video preview normally i.e. as it would any other video without RSVP content . If yes then step displays RSVP markers on the video timeline progress bar . Step then moves the current location indication on the progress bar to the first RSVP marker location. Step displays the RSVP content associated with the marker in a DRDA. After the first RSVP content segment finishes displaying then step plays the video excerpt that the preview file has associated with that RSVP segment. Step then changes the current RSVP marker to indicate that the RSVP content associated with that marker has been displayed e.g. by graying out the marker . Step determines whether the video preview contains additional RSVP enabled content. If no then step stops the video playback and displays the video timeline with markers. In one alternative the preview markers are individually selectable so that the user can go back and view individual segments without having to view the entire preview. If the result of step is yes then step repeats and advances to the next RSVP marker location in the timeline.

Step creates an AR element in the relevant AR service application. Such elements are well known and typically include displayable information that is associated with a real world object viewable by a user of the AR service. Step determines whether the AR element is designated to be displayable using RSVP. If no then the process proceeds to step . If yes then step prepares the text for RSPV display. In particular embodiments this may include various additional steps such as for example parsing it into a plurality of displayable elements inserting blank elements where appropriate calculating display time multipliers based on word length and determining an optimal recognition position character or proportionate position as further described in co pending U.S. application Ser. No. 13 547 982 incorporated herein by reference above. As is further explained therein in a particular implementation some or all steps for preparing text for RSVP display may be accomplished on a user device rather than remotely on a server computer. If there is any sub content associated with the AR element then step also prepares that sub content for RSVP display.

Step saves the AR element on the server. Step receives at the AR service application a request for a particular AR element from a user device. Step transmits the AR element to the requesting user device.

Process begins with step which detects AR elements received from an AR service such as AR service executing method to send AR elements including RSVP displayable content to a user device . Step determines whether the received AR element or elements include RSVP content. If no then step proceeds as the AR application normally would without RSPV content. If yes the step displays RSVP markers on objects views associated with real world objects. In one embodiment these markers include icons such as those illustrated in . In an alternative embodiment these markers may instead be or include short textual titles identifying the real world object. Step receives user input selecting a particular RSVP marker for display. Step displays the RSVP content corresponding to the selected marker in a DRDA. Step then determines whether there is any sub RSVP content for display. If no then step changes the marker corresponding to the RSVP content to indicated that it has been read. If yes then step displays titles for the sub content for two seconds. Step determines whether user input has indicated that the user has selected to view the sub content. If no then step changes the marker corresponding to the primary RSVP content to indicate that it has been read. If yes then step displays the sub content in the DRDA. When the sub content is finished displaying then the process returns to step to determine if there is any additional sub content sub content can also have additional sub content . Once all the RSVP content and sub content associated with a particular AR element has either been displayed or declined by the user for display the process then returns to step to wait for selection of another RSPV marker for RSVP display of content associated with another AR element.

While the present invention has been particularly described with respect to the illustrated embodiments it will be appreciated that various alterations modifications and adaptations may be made based on the present disclosure and are intended to be within the scope of the present invention. While the invention has been described in connection with what are presently considered to be the most practical and preferred embodiments it is to be understood that the present invention is not limited to the disclosed embodiments but on the contrary is intended to cover various modifications and equivalent arrangements included within the scope of the appended claims.

