---

title: Reusable test projectile
abstract: A reusable test projectile may be used for spinning and non-spinning shots in a soft catch system. The projectile may include a body having an integrally formed base and a removable nose. The body may define a generally cylindrical open area between the nose and the base. A generally circular cargo retaining ring may be disposed in the open area, normal to a longitudinal axis of the projectile. A cargo area is defined between the cargo retaining ring and the base. The solid bulkhead includes a front surface that forms a rear end of the cargo area and a rear concave surface. A driving band seat can be added on the exterior surface of the body at the bulkhead, for each repeated launch of the projectile, as may be desired. A slipped obturator seat may be formed on the exterior surface of the base rearward of the driving band seat, as desired.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08844444&OS=08844444&RS=08844444
owner: The United States of America as Represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 08844444
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130506
---
This application is a continuation in part of commonly assigned application Ser. No. 12 874 405 filed Sep. 2 2010 by the same inventors entitled Reusable Test Projectile .

The inventions described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the U.S. Government for U.S. Government purposes.

Collateral damage caused by munitions is a problem. There is a need for precision munitions that may reduce collateral damage. This need has been present for years and will continue into the future due to the nature of many modern day battlefields.

Projectiles may be stabilized in flight by spinning the projectile or by using fins on the projectile. A spin stabilized round or projectile may attain flight stability due to an interference fit between a metallic driving band mechanically attached to the projectile and the lands and grooves rifling in the launching tube. The interference between the metallic driving band and the rifling in the tube may also seal the propellant gases behind the driving band. As the projectile travels down the launching tube the twist of the rifling in the tube may impart rotational motion to the projectile through the band. Thus the projectile may exit the tube with spin which may help stabilize the projectile in flight. A spinning projectile may have a spin rate of about 200 hertz or more.

Many of today s precision munitions may be fin stabilized. When shot from cannon a fin stabilized projectile may seal the propellant gas behind it to produce the pressure needed to propel the projectile out of the cannon tube. A slipped obturator may be used to seal the gas behind the projectile. The slipped obturator may seal propellant gases behind it much like a piston ring in an internal combustion engine. The slipped obturator may be placed near the rear of the projectile. The slipped obturator may cause an interference fit between the rifling in the launching tube and the projectile.

Unlike the metallic driving band however the slipped obturator may not be mechanically coupled to the projectile body in the radial direction. As the projectile travels down the launching tube the rifling may cause the slipped obturator to spin. The interference between the slipped obturator and the tube wall may seal the propellant gases. But because the projectile is decoupled from the slipped obturator the projectile may not spin at the same rate as the slipped obturator or induce the magnitude of spin of a metallic driving band. The reduction in spin from the slipped obturator to the projectile may be needed for proper functioning of some guidance and navigation systems that are part of a precision guided munition.

The projectile with the slipped obturator may have a spin rate of about 0 hertz to about 80 hertz for example. The spin rate of a projectile with a slipped obturator is much less than the spin rate of a projectile with a driving band. As used in the specification and claims and as known in the art a non spinning projectile or round with a slipped obturator may have some small amount of spin but that amount of spin is very much less than the spin of a spinning projectile with a driving band.

The guidance and navigation systems in precision munitions may be very expensive. This expense coupled with the desire to increase the range of precision munitions has created a need to test projectiles at extreme loads. The same statistical inference may be obtained at a lower cost by testing a projectile a fewer number of times near the upper bounds of its operating conditions i.e. Permissible Maximum Pressure PMP 25 above normal than by testing a projectile a greater number of times at only a small amount above its normal operating conditions i.e. PMP 5 above normal .

The guidance and navigation systems of a projectile may need to be tested at the upper bounds of a projectile s operating conditions. Also it is necessary to determine if the failure may occur at gun launch or at projectile impact. Methods of catching a projectile that stop the projectile s forward movement without damaging the projectile are known. These soft catch methods include the rail gun and the soft catch recovery system along with shooting into impact areas amenable to the preservation of the projectile. The rail gun simply shoots the projectile into a closed rail system that has a water medium to slow the projectile down. The soft catch recovery system goes one step further and uses a mass spring damper of air and water in series to better control deceleration of the projectile. The soft catch recovery system may produce more accurate data with less balloting of the projectile and a slower de acceleration rate.

It is object of the invention to provide a reusable test projectile that may be fired as a spinning projectile or as a non spinning projectile combing the necessary attributes of both.

It is another object of the invention to provide a reusable test projectile that may be fired repeatedly as a spinning projectile or as a non spinning projectile.

It is a further object of the invention to provide a reusable test projectile that may be alternately fired as a spinning projectile and as a non spinning projectile.

One aspect of the invention is a reusable test projectile. The reusable test projectile may include a body having an integrally formed base and a removable nose. The body may define a generally cylindrical open area between the nose and the base. The body may be made of a high strength steel alloy. A cargo area may be defined between the nose and the base.

The projectile may include a solid bulkhead having a front surface that forms a rear end of the cargo area and a rear concave surface that defines a cup. A keyway may be defined in the inner surface of the body in the cargo area. A driving band seat may be included on an exterior surface of the body at an axial location of the bulkhead. The outside diameter of the body may decrease at a front end of the driving band seat and then increase at a rear end of the driving band seat.

A slipped obturator seat may be disposed on the exterior surface of the body rearward of the driving band seat. The outside diameter of the body may decrease at a front end of the slipped obturator seat. The exterior surface of the body from the rear of the nose to the front end of the driving band seat may be free of discontinuities including bourrelets.

The projectile may include a generally circular cargo retaining ring containing torque features disposed in the open area and normal to a longitudinal axis of the projectile. An outer surface of the cargo retaining ring may engage an inner surface of the body utilizing extra fine thread engagement for increase thread strength. The cargo retaining ring may be adjustable in an axial direction to compress a compressible cargo or very the pre load on the cargo.

In one embodiment of the projectile a metal driving band may be fixed to the driving band seat. In another embodiment of the projectile a slipped obturator may be disposed at the slipped obturator seat and a slipped obturator retaining ring may be removably fixed to a rear end of the base.

Another aspect of the invention is a method. The method may include providing a projectile launching the projectile and recovering the projectile with a soft catch system.

Providing the projectile may include providing the projectile with a metal driving band fixed to the driving band seat. Launching may include launching the projectile through a band cutter that strips the metal driving band from the projectile. The method may further include after recovering the projectile fixing a second metal driving band to the driving band seat. The method may further have a mechanically coupled driving band which will spate from centrifugal forces upon muzzle exit without the need of a band cutter.

The method may further include after recovering the projectile placing a slipped obturator in the slipped obturator seat and fixing a slipped obturator retaining ring to a rear end of the base. After fixing the slipped obturator retaining ring the method may include launching the projectile again and recovering the projectile again with a soft catch system.

After recovering the projectile again the method may include removing the slipped obturator retaining ring and the slipped obturator and then fixing a second metal driving band to the driving band seat.

Providing the projectile may include providing the projectile with a slipped obturator in the slipped obturator seat and a slipped obturator retaining ring removably fixed to a rear end of the base. After recovering the projectile the method may include removing the slipped obturator retaining ring and the slipped obturator and then fixing a metal driving band to the driving band seat.

Providing the projectile may include providing the projectile with a slipped obturator in the slipped obturator seat absent a metallic driving band and a fined projectile base removably fixed to the rear of the base to ballistically stabilize the projectile upon muzzle exit when not fired in a containment soft catch system.

The invention will be better understood and further objects features and advantages thereof will become more apparent from the following description of the preferred embodiments taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

The RTP may be manufactured using a material that is tough and strong for withstanding extreme testing conditions for example high strength steel. During the forging process the steel blank may be drawn into an elongated cup. The blank may re enter the production line where it may be rough machined heat treated fitted with a driving band final machined painted marked and shipped. Existing quality control processes may be used to ensure safety critical items standards are met and high quality end products are produced as defined by military standards already in place. Unlike conventional munitions made on the same production line unique steel chemistry forging parameters heat treatment and tolerances will be controlled to produce the desired high strength high performance test projectile. The tooling material flow and inspection process allow for a reduction in cost compared to other ways of manufacturing high strength high performance test projectiles.

The RTP may be used to test its cargo or projectile components attached to a RTP. In a carrier configuration projectile components may include fuzes guidance and navigation assemblies units fin stabilizing bases base bleeds or rocket motors. The cargo carried by the RTP may be for example instrumentation that may be for use in the navigation and control system of a guided projectile. The instrumentation may be placed in the RTP to test the survivability of the instrumentation under harsh launch conditions and not for navigation and control of the RTP itself. When loaded as cargo in the RTP the instrumentation may experience conditions that simulate the conditions that the instrumentation would experience if the instrumentation were launched in the guided projectile for which the instrumentation was designed.

The RTP will preferably be used with a soft catch system so that when the RTP comes to rest the RTP cargo instrumentation for example may be removed and analyzed for damage or degradation of performance. And the RTP may be reused. Also the RTP may be configured for either spinning or non spinning flight.

The RTP may isolate its cargo from exterior loading. A cargo retaining ring in the RTP may help isolate the cargo from exterior loading. A cargo retaining ring in the RTP may pre load the cargo to thereby dampen unnatural ringing. So the RTP cargo may be only subjected to its own inertial loading.

The RTP may isolate its cargo from external loads and the body walls of the RTP may not be subjected to loads applied by its internal cargo. Thus the RTP may be able to support external cargo such as for example an on board recorder placed at the nose of the RTP fuzes Guidance and Navigation Units or other attached projectile components. The inertia and or weight of the external cargo may be applied to the body walls of the RTP rather than to the RTP s cargo e.g.

In the RTP the cargo experiences loads close to those of a tactical projectile that is a projectile wherein the RTP cargo is performing its design function as part of the navigation system . Thus tactical projectile loads may be applied to the RTP cargo and the walls of the RTP may be independently loaded with the weight of the ogive. The internal cargo capacity of the RTP may be great therefore.

The RTP does not require shims for pre loading the cargo. The cargo may be placed in the RTP cargo area and torqued down to the desired pre load using the cargo retaining ring. Use of the cargo retaining ring may reduce the pre load deviation from shot to shot. Use of the cargo retaining ring may reduce unnatural ringing in the cargo.

Because the RTP is fired into a soft catch system the RTP may experience forces that may be different than real gun launch environments. The adjustable cargo retaining ring is helpful for simulating real life projectile dynamics. In addition the dimensional tolerance between the cargo and the interior body wall may be more exact in the RTP. For example the inside diameter of the RTP body in the cargo area may have a tolerance of plus or minus 0.005 inches. A sliding fit between the cargo and the RTP body helps prevent radial movement of the cargo balloting within the RTP.

A generally circular cargo retaining ring may be disposed in the open area between nose and base . Ring may be disposed normal to a longitudinal axis A of RTP . An outer surface of cargo retaining ring may engage an inner surface of body . Outer surface of ring and inner surface of body may be engaged using for example threads formed on outer surface and inner surface . Cargo retaining ring may be adjustable in the axial A direction. Openings may be formed in cargo retaining ring for weight reduction communication channels and as torque features.

A cargo area may be defined between cargo retaining ring and base . A solid bulkhead may include a front surface that forms a rear end of cargo area and a rear concave surface that defines a cup . The exterior surface of body at bulkhead may include a circumferential driving band seat .

A keyway may be defined in inner surface of body in cargo area . A circumferential slipped obturator seat may be located on exterior surface of base rearward of driving band seat . Obturator seat may include an area of decreased outer diameter compared to the outside diameter of base forward of obturator seat .

The diameter of the bulkhead in the band seating location is approximately 6 inches of solid steel in a typical example of a 155 mm sizing of this invention. Exterior surface of body from cargo retaining ring to the forward portion of bulkhead may be smooth. That is surface from cargo retaining ring to the forward portion of bulkhead may be free of discontinuities. The wall thickness of body from cargo retaining ring to bulkhead may be for example in a range of about 0.20 inches to about 0.75 inches. In a narrower range the wall thickness of body from cargo retaining ring to bulkhead may be for example in a range of about 0.25 inches to about 0.625 inches.

RTP may have mechanical properties and a profile that may reduce the transition forces that soft catch systems impart to projectiles. The mechanical properties and shape of RTP may allow cargo in RTP to experience reactions that closely represent a live firing scenario. The modal frequency response of the RTP cargo may closely represent live fire dynamics.

When sized as a 155 mm projectile RTP may reliably handle base pressures up to approximately 71 000 psi. Other cargo rounds may only reliably handle base pressures up to approximately 61 500 psi. Base pressure is the amount of pressure exerted on the projectile during gun launch. RTP may be reused if subjected to base pressures at or below approximately 71 000 psi. Other cargo projectiles may only be shot one time at or below approximately 61 500 psi. It should be appreciated that the projectile must also survive extreme temperatures the projectile sees around 1600 degrees Centigrade in the soft catch system while the temperature of the combustion gases inside the gun chamber is about 2370 degrees Kelvin for PXR charges e.g.

Concave cup may reduce stress compared to a flat surface. The concave shape of cup rear surface of bulkhead may direct the load paths of propellant gases proportionally into the walls around the cargo area and into the cargo area . By doing so the inertial loading from cargo and the forces due to the gun gases may equalize each other lowering the stress tensor in the bulkhead. This equalization may apply a more uniform load throughout RTP . The lack of stress concentrations in the load path of RTP and the smooth transitions in RTP may contribute to its survivability and or reusability.

Cargo may be disposed in the cargo area . Cargo may be coupled to body . Cargo may be keyed to keyway in cargo area such that cargo may spin with body . The keyway is shown further in hereof. Cargo retaining ring may be positioned to prevent axial movement of cargo in cargo area . Cargo retaining ring may threadingly engage inner surface of body . The custom buttressing for such threading is shown in of this application with the right side end of the sketch facing towards the ogive or front of the projectile. Such buttressing allows 27 lbs of cargo to withstand 5 000 G s of set forward and 20 000 G s of set back forces. Cargo may have a sliding fit with inner surface of body . The fit could be made to be within a ten thousandth of an inch. The inside diameter S of cargo area may vary no more than for example 0.005 inches.

To ensure a smooth transfer of forces between front surface of bulkhead and cargo a cargo shim may be disposed between cargo and front surface . Cargo shim may have a rear surface with a profile that mates with attaches to or matches the profile of front surface of bulkhead but is not required to compress the cargo stack. A spinning RTP with spinning cargo may be fired up to approximately 71 000 psi and may satisfactorily absorb the inertial torque applied to RTP by its cargo . The keyway extends the whole inside length of the round. It has a cross sectional shape where a half moon like part of it is embedded into the side wall of the round s inside surface and can partly extend into the cargo area and is meant to engage with the cargo that will be placed there so the cargo can turn joined or at least together with the round. The half moon shape has advantages for more seamless connection to the inside of the round than would for example a rectangularly cross sectional shape keyway. The rest of the keyway part could also be an inverted and symmetrical half moon shape so that together the cross section would roughly look elliptical in form or some other shape. It is also possible to have a plurality of like keyways.

As an alternative to cargo retaining ring a threaded stud not shown may be fixed to front surface of bulkhead . Cargo may include a threaded opening so that cargo may be threaded onto the stud on the front surface of bulkhead . In this way cargo may be secured without cargo retaining ring .

In RTP ogive or nose may load the walls of body without loading cargo . Nose may include or be replaced by for example an onboard recording device other cargo fuzes guidance and navigation units or other projectile components or assemblies. Openings may be formed in the front end of nose for threading nose on and off of body .

As seen in the outside diameter of body may decrease at a front end of driving band seat and then may increase at a rear end of driving band seat . A metal driving band may be fixed to driving band seat . Because of the placement and size of bulkhead in RTP a very large metal driving band may be welded to RIP body . Metal driving band may comprise copper for example. Cracking of RTP body due to welding driving band in place may be less likely because of the large size of bulkhead and the lack of stress concentrations under driving band or around driving band . The large volume of metal in bulkhead may act as a heat sink. Many prior projectiles have very thin walls that may result in stress concentrations or material gradients in physical properties underneath their driving bands.

Because of the placement of bulkhead and large driving band seat driving band may as an alternative to welding be swaged on body . Swaging is a mechanical process that uses large amounts of pressure to mechanically couple driving band to body through staking and interference.

A swaged band axially and torsionally coupled to the body but not cohesively coupled to the band seat in the normal direction of the band seat may be designed to discard upon muzzle exit using the centrifugal force of spinning and the bands mass to ripe the band apart from the high hoop stresses induced in the band by the centrifugal forces. If body were hollow at the area of driving band seat the amount of force used to swage driving band on body might collapse body unless body were supported in some way.

The force required to swage a band on a body may be directly proportional to the size of the band. A narrow band requires less force while a wider band requires more force. Thus multiple band geometries wide to narrow may be applied to RTP with welding swaging or other processes. Only small bands may be swaged onto hollow projectiles unless additional support is provided.

Because of the large size of bulkhead RTP may be fired through a band cutter which may strip driving band off RTP . The band cutter mechanically machines band off in a known manner like a pencil sharpener. The RTP bulkhead may reduce flex of body as it passes through the band cutter.

After driving band is stripped or discarded RTP may be fired as a non spinning round. RTP may include the features needed to attach a slipped obturator and RTP body may be designed for slipped obturator loading. A slipped obturator shown schematically in may be disposed at slipped obturator seat . A slipped obturator retaining ring may be removably fixed to a rear end of base using for example threaded fasteners . As shown in the outside diameter of body may decrease at the front end of slipped obturator seat .

Or after driving band is stripped from RTP another driving band may be welded to RTP and RTP may again be fired as a spinning round. Repeated firing as a spinning round is possible because the heat affected zone from welding driving band may be outside the critical load path in RTP .

RTP may be used not only to test cargo. Different types of slipped obturators may be installed and tested on RTP . RTP may not fail if subjected to the blow by loads seen during catastrophic slipped obturator failure maximum pressure applied to the side of the projectile . The combination of the material of construction of RTP and its wall thickness results in a projectile that may withstand the pressure of propellant gases that may escape by the slipped obturator and apply pressure to the projectile wall. The ability to withstand the blow by pressure is important because if a projectile subjected to blow by from a catastrophic slipped obturator were to fail the projectile may partially implode while inside the gun bore. Implosion of the projectile in the gun bore may ruin the gun and may injure nearby personnel.

RTP may also be used to test projectile components including finned bases base bleeds or rocket motors. If the projectile components desired to be attached to the RTP do not have the feature necessary to attached to rear end of base using for example threaded fasteners the RTP is designed to allow slipped obturator seat to be modified with a thread to allow projectile components to be threaded onto the rear end of base .

RTP may be designed to carry cargo but not expel cargo. Other munition cargo carriers may have a hollow body base and nose. Either the base or the nose of other projectiles must be removed to expel the cargo. In RTP the cargo is not expelled but is recovered from RTP and examined. So RTP may have a unified or integral base and body . RTP may have a unified nose or ogive and body if desired. Base and body may be forged from a single piece of stock. Other cargo rounds may have separate bases bodies and noses.

RTP may accept a slipped obturator non spinning configuration or a copper driving band spinning configuration . A spin rate of 10 50 Hz would be a simulation of a fin stabilized round basically little or no appreciable spin whereas a spin rate of perhaps 300 Hz could be a simulation of a spin stabilized round. RTP may be fired in either the spinning or non spinning configuration into a soft catch system. Tactically RTP may be fired in the spinning configuration with no additional hardware. If a fin kit were bolted to RTP RTP may be fired as a tactical non spinning fin stabilized round if propelled by a slipped obturator and a fin stabilizing base attached to the rear end of base .

RTP may have a per shot cost of about 20. Per shot cost is the life cycle cost of the projectile divided by the number of shots it can be fired.

RTP may also be loaded with high explosives and used as a tactical round. Thus RTP may be used as a test asset or a tactical asset if desired.

Critical crack size is the size of a crack in the wall of a projectile that will cause failure of the projectile. A crack that is larger than the critical crack size will cause failure and a crack that is smaller than the critical crack size will not cause failure. In RTP the critical crack size is visible to the unaided human eye.

All projectiles in production may be built to survive interior ballistic gun loads loads fly straight and exhibit terminal ballistic effects. Because external and terminal ballistic effects drive the design of nearly all projectiles tactical projectiles are not solely optimized for interior ballistic gun loads loads. Using a soft catch system RTP may only be subjected to interior ballistic loads. Thus RTP may withstand greater interior ballistic loads and may maximize cargo volume. Though RTP may not be optimized for general terminal ballistic effects if loaded with a high explosive train RTP may generate significant terminal ballistic effects.

Fatigue analysis shows that RTP may survive one PMP 25 spinning shot and ten to fifty PMP 25 non spinning shots before the fatigue life of RTP may be reached. Depending on the number of test projectiles used the dollar savings by using RTP may be in the millions. Generally the ratio 1 50 of the number of spinning shots required to the number of non spinning shots required is low.

A finite element analysis was performed for RTP . The peak stress for the RTP was 152 500 psi. In addition the stress profile for RTP gradually increased from the nose to the base .

Material that does not carry load may be a waste of limited space. In the area of base of RTP however there are only very small areas of low loading low stress . Thus virtually all the material of the RTP helps to support load which is an efficient use of its

RTP showed almost a constant stress near the rear of body and throughout bulkhead . The lack of stress concentrations in RTP may allow RTP to be loaded to extremes pressure limits PMP 25 . Bulkhead of RTP may help to distribute the pressure loading that base may experience during gun launch and may help distribute the opposing inertial loading of cargo . Bulkhead may create an almost uniform stress distribution.

The RTP may be used for a variety of calibers. In one embodiment RTP may be a 155 mm projectile. As new soft catch systems are built other calibers of RTPs may be used.

A few comments are made here with regard to an M483 cargo round. It has a relatively thin body all around some 0.375 of an inch . Heating it to weld driving bands can crack the round. Putting pressure on the body to swage on a driving band could crush the body. So refurbishing for serial flights would not seem possible. The generally aluminum base seems only able to withstand about 40 000 psi of pressure before it deforms and certainly less than 61 500 psi of pressure making it seem unsuitable in cases where 71 000 psi of pressure are needed e.g to be withstood. It was designed for 8 000 G s of setback of forces to be withstood. The material is generally 1340 steel of only about a 145 ksi yield. So again reuse for proposed serial flights would not seem possible. In any case no front loading of cargo e.g. could ever be possible. Further loading if attempted would have to be by unscrewing the base attaching cargo then re screwing the base. In such use it must be noted the base would lock tight as it turns shut during a proposed flight making it impossible to open and then re use according to its existing design. If proposed loading were attempted the cargo area length would be only be of a fixed length only generally up to the formerly placed pusher plate location and custom shims or the like would be needed to attempt to secure such cargo which would require tailored packing each flight and would also waste considerable time. Cargo fit if even possible would not be compact only 15 20 thousandths of an inch tolerance so balloting can result. Its keyway only extends about a quarter of the distance into the length of the cargo and the cross sectional shape of the keyway is only rectangular which has stress concentration in the corners.

While the invention has been described with reference to certain preferred embodiments numerous changes alterations and modifications to the described embodiments are possible without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims and equivalents thereof.

