---

title: Methods and apparatus to correlate census measurement data with panel data
abstract: Methods, apparatus, systems and articles of manufacture are disclosed to correlate census measurement data with panel data. An example method disclosed herein includes instructing, via a first computing device of a monitoring entity, a media provider to embed a tag in media, the tag to cause a device accessing the media to send a message to the monitoring entity when the media is accessed by the device, the message to identify a geographic location of the device. The example method also includes accessing the message with a second computing device of the monitoring entity. The example method also includes identifying, with the second computing device of the monitoring entity, a panelist identifier based on the geographic location of the device. The example method also includes associating media identifying information included in the message with panelist data associated with the panelist identifier.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09635404&OS=09635404&RS=09635404
owner: The Nielsen Company (US), LLC
number: 09635404
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131218
---
This patent claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 815 544 filed on Apr. 24 2013 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

This disclosure relates generally to audience measurement and more particularly to methods and apparatus to correlate census measurement data with panel data.

Audience measurement of media e.g. any type of content and or advertisements such as broadcast television and or radio stored audio and or video played back from a memory such as a digital video recorder or a digital video disc a webpage audio and or video presented e.g. streamed via the Internet a video game etc. often involves collection of media identifying data e.g. signature s fingerprint s code s tuned channel identification information time of exposure information etc. and people data e.g. user identifier s demographic data associated with audience member s etc. . The media identifying data and the people data can be combined to generate for example media exposure data indicative of amount s and or type s of people that were exposed to specific piece s of media.

Example methods systems and apparatus disclosed herein may be used to measure audience exposure and or interaction with online media accessed by users. For example techniques disclosed herein enable correlating census measurement data in panel samples.

Monitoring impressions of online media e.g. website content audio video text etc. such as an advertisement a streaming program etc. is useful for generating impression statistics for the online media. As used herein an impression is defined to be an event in which a home or individual is exposed to the corresponding media e.g. content and or advertisement . Thus an impression represents a home or an individual having been exposed to media e.g. an advertisement content a group of advertisements and or a collection of content . A quantity of impressions or impression count with respect to online media is the total number of times media e.g. an advertisement an advertisement campaign a streaming program etc. has been accessed by a web population e.g. the number of times the media is accessed as decreased by for example pop up blockers and or increased by for example retrieval from local cache memory . A user device e.g. a mobile device via a browser that renders media or a non browser based application that presents media requests the online media from a media provider e.g. one or more content providers and or advertising entities by sending a hypertext transfer protocol HTTP request to an Internet address defined by a uniform resource locator URL specified by the media provider e.g. a content provider and or advertising entity . To enable monitoring of user access to Internet resources in some examples participating media providers e.g. publishers of websites advertisement providers etc. insert or embed a tag within the source e.g. Hypertext Markup Language HTML code of their respective media. The tag may include Java JavaScript and or other executable instructions which cause the media access to be recorded by an audience measurement entity when the tag executes on a requesting mobile device.

Methods apparatus and systems for tagging media in the manner described above are disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 6 108 637 by Blumenau entitled Content Display Monitor which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. Because a tag is embedded in the HTML defining a webpage and or referenced by a pointer in the HTML of a webpage the tag is executed whenever a web browser renders the corresponding media e.g. the webpage . Typically a tag will cause the browser to send a request sometimes referred to herein as a beacon to a data collection facility such as an audience measurement entity server that is associated with the audience measurement entity. In some examples the beacon is an HTTP request e.g. an HTML GET request an HTML POST request etc. . The beacon enables monitoring data reflecting information about the media access to be tracked. To this end the beacon carries identification information to be collected compiled and or analyzed at the audience measurement entity. The identification information may include a user agent string to identify the user device on which the media is requested a media identifier to identify the media with which the tag is associated e.g. a website address a host identifier to identify the host e.g. web server with which the requested media is associated e.g. a vendor identifier VID a timestamp to identify the dates times at which the media is requested accessed and or received one or more command identifiers identifying control commands e.g. pause play stop etc. acted upon the media etc.

Tags such as those described above may facilitate the collection of census like data. In other words because every or nearly every browser that accesses the tagged media will respond to the tag by sending the beacon or communication to the audience measurement entity every or nearly every access to the online media even to cached media using such tags will be known by the audience measurement entity. Moreover the collection of this data does not require the use of a special browser or of special metering software at the user devices. Rather because a beacon may appear to a conventional commercially available browser e.g. Mozilla Firefox Microsoft Internet Explorer Google Chrome browser etc. as any other request to retrieve Internet media e.g. as a request to obtain content or advertisement material to be displayed as part of the webpage or transmit data any such browser will participate in the audience measurement process without requiring modification. As a result tagging enables collection of data from panelists and non panelists alike. Therefore data collected via a tagging approach such as that described above is described herein as census data or census measurement data. Although examples disclosed herein are described in connection with browser based interfaces used to present online media disclosed techniques may also be used in connection with non browser based applications that render media such as service specific applications e.g. client applications to stream media .

It is useful however to link demographics and or other user information to the census data. For example companies and or individuals want to understand the reach and effectiveness of the media e.g. content and or advertisements that they produce. For example media that is associated with larger numbers of exposures and or larger numbers of occurrences of an association may be considered more effective at influencing user behavior. Because census based data includes users who are not panelists panelist identifiers are not collected and or identified from such users. Some census based systems collect impression data at the server level. Collecting information at the server level enables an accurate measure of information served by the monitored servers but does not enable distinguishing media impressions from panelists and non panelists or exposure to cached media e.g. content served once and accessed one or more subsequent times from local memory . While servers may log an Internet Protocol IP address of a device that requested the information IP addresses are prone to change e.g. are dynamically assigned and or requests may come through proxy servers that mask the identity of the originally requesting device. Thus server logs do not typically uniquely identify the requesting device and or the user making the request.

To address this issue audience measurement entities sometimes referred to herein as ratings entities traditionally determine online media reach and frequency based on registered panel members. That is an audience measurement entity enrolls people that consent to being monitored into a panel. In such panelist based systems demographic information is obtained from a user when for example the user joins and or registers for the panel. The demographic information e.g. race age or age range gender income home location education level etc. may be obtained from the user for example via a telephone interview an in person interview by having the user complete a survey e.g. an online survey etc. In some examples demographic information may be collected for a home. For example demographic information for a panel home may indicate age ranges of members in a panel home without identifying the number of members in each of the age ranges. Thus the granularity of the demographic information may depend on whether the demographic information is for a panelist or multiple individuals in a panel home. As used herein the term panelist is generic to both a panelist and a panel home.

Companies such as The Nielsen Company US LLC utilize on device meters to monitor usage of cellphones tablets e.g. iPads and or other computing devices e.g. PDAs laptop computers etc. . An on device meter ODM is typically implemented by software that collects data of interest concerning usage of the monitored device. For example the ODM may collect data indicating media access activities e.g. website names dates times of access clickstream data and or other media identifying information e.g. webpage content advertisements etc. to which the panelist is exposed. This data is uploaded periodically or aperiodically to a data collection facility such as the audience measurement entity server. The data collected by a meter is referred to herein as ODM data or panelist data. ODM data is advantageous in that it can be linked to demographic information because the panelist has provided their demographics as part of the registration and the activity data collected by the ODM can thus be associated with that demographic information via for example a panelist identifier included in the ODM data transmitted to the audience measurement entity.

Typically an entity such as The Nielsen Company US LLC that monitors and or reports the usage of online media e.g. content advertisements or other types of media operates as a neutral third party. That is the audience measurement entity does not provide content and or advertisements to end users. This un involvement with the media ensures the neutral status of the audience measurement entity and thus enhances the trusted nature of the data it collects. Further to ensure that panel members remain unbiased in their media access it is important to the audience measurement entity that the panel members are not identified by other entities such as a content provider and or advertising entity. That is to insure that the reports generated by the audience measurement entity are not skewed by content providers and or advertising entities that may bias panelists it is advantageous to collect monitoring information in a manner that protects the anonymity of the panelist and does not include identifiers e.g. a panelist telephone number a panelist social security number a panelist name etc. that may be used to identify specific panelists.

Example methods systems and apparatus disclosed herein may be used to collect monitoring information at a census level and then correlate the census measurement data with panel samples. Examples disclosed herein facilitate collecting monitoring information at a census level by tracking the monitoring information included in beacons that are transmitted to the audience measurement entity server in response to media requests.

Example methods systems and apparatus disclosed herein cause the beacon transmitted to the audience measurement entity server to include a location identifier. The location identifier may then be used to associate the corresponding monitoring information e.g. media impression with a panelist. Examples disclosed herein accomplish this by including device location information in the beacon that is associated with the geographic location at which the media was requested by the user device.

Examples disclosed herein facilitate comparing the device location included in the monitoring information to reference locations associated with the panelists. Reference locations correspond to geographic locations for a panelist home. For example the reference locations may be global positioning system GPS coordinates. In some examples a reference location may be obtained when a user joins and or registers for a panel. For example the reference location may be obtained by a technician who visits the home of the panelist to install metering equipment at the panelist home. For example the technician may use a positioning system e.g. a GPS wide area augmentation system WAAS enabled receiver to obtain for example GPS coordinates for the panelist home. In some examples the metering equipment may include a positioning system and or include a wired and or wireless network interface to receive location data from a nearby positioning system and or transmit location data to user devices within the panelist home. In some such examples the metering equipment may periodically and or aperiodically transmit location data to the audience measurement entity server. In addition when the metering equipment includes a positioning system the audience measurement entity may identify when the metering equipment is moved to a new location e.g. outside the panelist home based on a change in the location data received from the metering equipment.

When comparing the device location to reference locations examples disclosed herein determine the distance between the device location and a reference location stored at the audience measurement entity. If the distance between the locations is less than a threshold the user is considered to be requesting media from within the panelist home and based on this conclusion examples disclosed herein proceed to associate the census data with a panelist identifier. The panelist identifier may then be used to associate demographic information to the monitoring information. For example the age of a panelist may be used to determine an age range of viewers likely to watch a television show. In the illustrated examples when the beacon is sent to the audience measurement entity server in response to rendering tagged media the beacon includes the location identifier e.g. the device location and the impression entry logged at the audience measurement entity server includes the location identifier.

In the illustrated example of an audience measurement entity operates and or hosts the example AME server . The AME of the illustrated example is an entity that monitors and or reports access to tagged media. The AME server of the illustrated example is a server and or database that collects and or receives monitoring information related to tagged media e.g. media having inserted or embedded executable instructions that causes the media view e.g. impression to be recorded by for example the AME server . The AME of the illustrated example is a neutral entity that is not involved with the distributing of media.

In the illustrated example of a media provider operates and or hosts the media hosting server that responds to requests for media that may include tags. For example the media provider may engage the AME to collect and or monitor information related to media associated with the media provider. Such a media provider may wish to use tagged media in a media campaign to determine the effectiveness of the media campaign. In some examples the information returned in response to the request for media includes an instruction e.g. tag to inform the AME server of the accessing of tagged media. In some examples the information returned in response to the request for media includes a reference to a tag and or executable monitoring instructions. For example the tag and or executable monitoring instructions may be hosted at the AME server which enables the AME to directly control the content of the tag and or executable monitoring instructions. In some examples the tag and or executable monitoring instructions are hosted at the media hosting server . By including a reference to a tag and or executable monitoring instructions in the media the content of the tag e.g. executable monitoring instructions may be changed at any time without modifying the media. For example the tag and or executable monitoring instructions may be updated to improve efficiency of collecting information for tagged media by updating the executable instructions hosted at the AME server and or the media hosting server . As shown above the tag may reside wholly in the media or may be distributed between the media and the AME server and or the hosting server. Tagged media may thus include an executable monitoring instruction that serves as a tag or a reference to monitoring instructions stored at an external location such as a server. In the later case the reference may be considered a first tag or portion of a tag and the external instruction may be considered a second tag or a portion of a tag. In some examples the media hosting server is operated and or hosted by a third party. In addition for simplicity only one media hosting server is shown in although multiple media hosting servers are likely to be present.

In the illustrated example of the client device is a smartphone e.g. an Apple iPhone a Motorola Moto X a Nexus 5 an Android platform device etc. . However any other type of device may additionally or alternatively be used such as for example a tablet e.g. an Apple iPad a Motorola Xoom etc. a laptop computer a desktop computer a camera an Internet compatible television a smart TV etc. The client device of sometimes referred to herein as a user device or mobile device is used to access e.g. request receive render and or present online media that is tagged and returned by the media hosting server . For example the user may execute a web browser on the client device to request streaming media e.g. via an HTTP request from the media hosting server . In response to accessing the tagged media media impression information including device location information is sent to the AME server .

As discussed above a media provider may engage the AME to collect and or monitor information related to media associated with the media provider. For example the media provider may want to compare the performances of three distinct pieces of media e.g. media A B and C to one another and or to other media and or to an expected or desired performance e.g. reach and or frequency of the three pieces of media e.g. media A B and C . In the illustrated example of the AME server includes an example tag handler to facilitate tagging media A B and C to enable the AME server to track when media is requested by for example the client device . In the illustrated example the tag handler of provides tags and or references to tags to the media hosting server for inserting into media. For example the tag handler may provide the media hosting server an example tag A to include e.g. insert embed etc. in the media A a tag B to include in the media B and a tag C to include in the media C. As discussed above a tag may be a reference to monitoring instructions such that the reference but not the instructions are embedded in the media. Alternatively the tag may be the executable monitoring instructions and may be located directly in the media and or at an external location accessible to the media.

In the illustrated example the tag handler generates a tag that is later included in media hosted by the media hosting server . Based on the preferences of the media provider and or the AME the tag handler generates a tag that achieves the goals of the media provider and or the AME. The tag handler generates tags that enable the AME server to collect and or receive monitoring information related to the tagged media e.g. media A B and C . In some examples the generated tags are then stored in a data structure such as a lookup table and used by the tag handler to facilitate tagging media.

In some examples the tag handler generates the tags A B C and instructs the media hosting server to include the tags A B C into the corresponding media A B C. In other examples the tag handler generates the tags A B C and embeds the tags A B C into the corresponding media A B C and then provides the tagged media e.g. the media A including tag A the media B including tag B the media C including tag C to the media hosting server . In some examples the tag handler generates the tags A B C and instructs the media hosting server to include references to the tags A B C in the corresponding media A B C. For example the media hosting server may embed a tag A reference into the media A a tag B reference into the media B and a tag C reference into the media C. The tag references A B C may then be used to request the corresponding tag A B C . For example when the media A including the tag A reference is accessed at the client device the client device may also send a request for the tag A using the tag A reference. In some such examples the tag handler generates the tags e.g. tags A B C and the tag references e.g. references to the tags A B C and provides the tag references e.g. references to the tags A B C to the media hosting server to insert into the corresponding media e.g. media A B C while the tag handler stores the tags e.g. tags A B C . Thus when the client device accesses the media including the tag reference the client device uses the tag reference to request the corresponding tag from the tag handler . In other examples the tag handler provides the tags A B C and the tag references e.g. references to the tags A B C to the media hosting server . In some examples the tag handler generates the tags A B C and provides to the media hosting server the tags A B C to include in the corresponding media A B C and instructions to generate references to the tags A B C. For example the media hosting server may host the media to be tracked e.g. media A B C the tags A B C generate references to the tags A B C and embed the references A B C into the corresponding media A B C. In some examples when the client device accesses the media including the tag reference the client device requests the corresponding tag from the media hosting server . Thus for example when executable instructions of a tag need to be updated e.g. replaced with executable instructions that improve efficiency in collecting media monitoring information neither the media nor the reference to the tag included in the media needs to be modified. Rather the tag handler enables modifying only the tag on the server side e.g. the instructions referenced by the tag included in the media .

In the illustrated example of the client device includes the positioning system to enable identification of the geographic location of the client device . The positioning system of the illustrated example is implemented by a global positioning system GPS . In some examples the positioning system uses the Wide Area Augmentation System WAAS and may accurately determine the location of the client device between three and five feet. In some examples the positioning system determines the geographic location e.g. GPS coordinates based on signals received from satellites representative of the positions of the satellites in relation to the location of the client device . However in some other examples the positioning system determines location based on positions of cellular radio towers in relation to the location of the client device e.g. using a triangulation method . However any other past present and or future method for determining the device location of the client device e.g. cellular tower triangulation Wi Fi data GPS data sent from another device using a wired and or wireless network interface such as Bluetooth etc. may be used by the client device to provide location information of the client device when accessing the requested media.

The AME server of the illustrated example records that a request e.g. the beacon was received and also records any data contained in the beacon e.g. the location identifier the media identifier the timestamp a cookie etc. . The AME server in some examples responds to the request with an acknowledgement message. In some examples the acknowledgement message requests and or sets a cookie in the client device to for example enable identification of subsequent beacons from the same client device.

In the illustrated example of the media hosting server responds to media requests by client devices with tagged media. In the illustrated example the example media hosting server sends to the client device media including a tag and sends to the client device media including a tag . As described above the tags are executable instructions e.g. an applet that cause media monitoring information to be sent to the AME . In some examples the tags are links to such executable instructions.

More specifically in response to presenting the requested media including the tag the client device executes the executable instructions e.g. the tag which causes the client device to send a beacon to the AME server . In addition executing the tag causes the client device to identify a geographic location of the client device . In the illustrated example the positioning system of the client device enables identification of the device location of the client device . In the illustrated example the client device obtains device location data e.g. GPS coordinates from the positioning system based on signals received from the GPS satellites . The example client device of then transmits the device location data as a location identifier to the AME server in the beacon .

In a similar manner in response to presenting the requested media including the tag the client device executes the tag which causes the client device to send a beacon to the AME server . In addition executing the executable instructions causes the client device to identify a geographic location of the client device . In the illustrated example of the client device does not include a positioning system but may receive location information from a proximate device. In the illustrated example the metering equipment broadcasts geographic location information that may be received by nearby devices. For example the metering equipment of the illustrated example broadcasts the geographic location information via a Bluetooth interface. In some such examples if the client device also includes a Bluetooth interface the client device receives the geographic location information from the metering equipment and transmits the geographic location information to the AME as a location identifier in the beacon .

In some examples a client device transmitting a beacon to the AME server may not include a positioning system and or a geographic location information receiving interface e.g. a Bluetooth interface and or the application requesting the media e.g. the browser may not have access to the positioning system of the client device. In some such examples the client device transmits the beacon to the AME server without a location identifier. When processing a beacon without a location identifier the AME server marks the monitoring information included in the beacon as census data.

In the illustrated example of to determine whether to correlate monitoring information included in a beacon to a registered panelist the AME server compares the device location included in the location identifier to reference locations associated with registered panelists. For example if the device location is within a threshold distance of a reference location the panelist identifier corresponding to the reference location may be associated with the monitoring information corresponding to the location identifier received with the beacon. Otherwise the monitoring information is marked as census data.

In some examples the AME server compares device locations to reference areas associated with the registered panelists. The associated reference area of a panelist corresponds to a geographic area around a reference location. In some examples the reference area varies based on known information about the panelist home or other location e.g. job favorite hangouts etc. and the corresponding reference location. In some examples reference locations e.g. job favorite hangouts etc. are determined by collecting geographical locations from a portable meter and or a computing device e.g. cellphone tablet PDA laptop computer etc. including an on device meter ODM e.g. an ODM utilized by The Nielsen Company US LLC carried by a registered panelist. In some examples the size of a reference area depends on whether the panelist home is an apartment a house etc. and the site of the geographic area surrounding the reference location depends on the location of the metering equipment in the panelist home. For example if the metering equipment is known to be located against an exterior wall of the panelist home reference area may be positioned around the reference location data B so that the reference location data B is near an edge of the reference area rather than in the center of the reference area . Further although the reference area is represented as an ellipse in the illustrated example the reference area may be another shape such as a circle a hexagon or any other suitable shape.

In the illustrated example the example AME server uses reference locations associated with registered panelists to compare to the device locations included in beacons received from client devices to determine whether to associate the corresponding monitoring information with a registered panelist. For example the AME server of the illustrated example determines whether the device locations data included in the corresponding beacons are within the reference area . If a device location is within the reference area associated with a registered panelist the AME server associates the monitoring information from the corresponding beacon with the corresponding registered panelist. For example monitoring information included in the beacon may be correlated with a panelist associated with the reference location data B because the AME server determines that the device location is within the reference area corresponding to that panelist. In contrast if the device location is not within the reference area associated with a registered panelist the AME server marks the corresponding monitoring information as census data. For example the AME server of the illustrated example marks the monitoring information included in the beacon as census data because the device location data is not within the reference area .

In the illustrated example of the example household is associated with a reference location . The reference location may be collected via a meter including a positioning system such as a GPS enabled device e.g. the example meter of from a device including a positioning system that is proximate to a meter in the household by a technician using a positioning system who visited the household etc. In the illustrated example of the example household is also associated with a reference area . The example reference area of is an approximation of the area of the household in which a member of the household may request and or access media e.g. via the example client device of . In the illustrated example the reference area is determined using an example radius .

In a similar manner the example household B of is associated with a reference location which may be collected via for example a meter including a positioning system e.g. a GPS enabled device from a device including a positioning system that is proximate to a meter in the household B by a technician using a positioning system who visited the household B etc. In the illustrated example of the example household B is associated with a reference area . The example reference area is an approximation of the area of the household B in which a member of the household B may request and or access media e.g. via the example client device . In the illustrated example the reference area is determined using an example radius .

As described above the area of a reference area may vary based on known information about the associated household. For example the AME server may vary the radius used to determine the reference areas based on the household type. For example as the household is known to be a house the example AME server may assume that the household is located within the yard and based on this conclusion the AME server may use a radius that extends beyond the perimeter of the physical structure of the household e.g. beyond the walls without the reference area overlapping with another household. Thus when the AME server receives a beacon including device location information positioned within the reference area the AME server associates the corresponding monitoring information with the demographic information associated with the household .

In contrast the household B is known to be a duplex apartment and the example AME server can use this information to determine that the household B likely shares a wall with another household e.g. the household A . For some purposes the AME server uses the radius which is less than the radius and does not extend beyond the walls of the household B thereby reducing the probability of the reference area overlapping with another household. As a result device location information positioned within the reference area can be correctly credited to the household B and not erroneously credited to a neighbor.

Although the reference areas of are determined using a radius many other methods of determining the reference area are possible. For example two or more GPS coordinates may be used to calculate a reference area that is a rectangle a hexagon etc.

In the illustrated example of the AME server includes the example beacon handler to facilitate communication with client devices e.g. the client device of . For example the beacon handler may receive dummy requests e.g. beacons from the client device executing the executable instructions e.g. the tag . In some examples the beacon handler receives the beacon from the browser of . In some examples the beacon handler sends an acknowledgement response to the browser in response to receiving the beacon . In other examples no response is provided.

In the illustrated example of the AME server includes the example beacon parser to extract location information included in the beacon . For example the beacon parser may identify the location identifier of . In some examples the beacon parser may identify a user agent identifying the browser and or the client device . For example the user agent may include a network address a media access control MAC address a telephone number etc. associated with the client device . In some examples the beacon parser may identify a media identifier identifying the media that was received in the media response of e.g. the media identifier . In some examples the beacon parser may identify and or set a cookie enabling identification of subsequent beacons from the same client device. In some examples the beacon parser may be unable to identify a location identifier in the beacon . For example when the beacon is sent from a client device that does not include a positioning system and or does not have access to a positioning system the beacon will not have the location identifier.

In the illustrated example of the AME server includes the example decrypter to decrypt information in the beacon . For example information included in the beacon may be encrypted. For example the executable tag may cause the browser to encrypt the device location information and or the monitoring information prior to including the location identifier in the beacon . In this manner personal data such as precise location data that may identify where a user is accessing media is protected. In some such examples the decrypter may be used to decrypt the information included in the beacon prior to the beacon parsing parsing the beacon .

In the illustrated example of the AME server includes the example tagged impression logger to credit or log impressions to media based on the monitoring information included in the beacon . For example the tagged impression logger may list the corresponding media e.g. via one or more media identifiers in a data structure. In some examples the tagged impression logger appends and or prepends additional information crediting the identified media with an exposure. For example the tagged impression logger may identify a media source from which the media was received e.g. a vendor identifier a URL etc. a network address of the client device and or an identifier of the client device e.g. an international mobile equipment identity IMEI number a cookie a MAC address etc. . In addition the tagged impression logger may append a timestamp from the example time stamper indicating the date and or time when the beacon was received by the AME server . This timestamp may be in addition to a timestamp applied at the client device to identify the media access time.

In the illustrated example of the AME server includes the example location handler to determine reference locations to which to compare to the device location extracted from the beacon . As described above a reference location corresponds to a geographic location of a panelist home. In the illustrated example the reference locations are stored in the data store along with a panelist identifier and or additional panelist information associated with a panelist. For example the panelist information may include demographic information e.g. gender age group race income level of education etc. collected from a user when the user joins or registers for the panel.

The location handler of the illustrated example of uses a data structure e.g. a lookup table stored in the example data store to identify reference locations associated with the registered panelists. A registered panelist may be associated with one or more reference locations and or reference areas e.g. a house area a work area a vacation home area etc. . In some examples the location handler filters reference locations based on the extracted device location. For example the location handler may parse the reference locations stored in the data store and identify the reference locations that have the same or nearly the same longitude coordinates or latitude coordinates of the device location specified in the beacon.

In the illustrated example of the AME server includes the example distance calculator to calculate the distance between a device location extracted from a beacon by the beacon parser and one or more reference location s obtained from the location handler . For example the distance calculator may use any distance calculating algorithm to determine the distance between the two locations.

In the illustrated example of the AME server includes the example comparator to compare the distance calculated by the example distance calculator to a threshold. The example comparator of the example of outputs a message indicating whether to associate the corresponding monitoring information with a panelist based on the comparison based on whether the threshold is satisfied e.g. the calculated distance is within the threshold .

In some examples the comparator compares the extracted device location to a reference area based on a reference location. In some examples the attributes of the reference area e.g. size geographic area center shape etc. are selected based on panelist information such that different reference areas have different attributes. For example if a first reference location corresponds to an apartment unit and a second reference location corresponds to a ranch style house the example comparator may determine a reference area surrounding the first reference location that is smaller than a reference area surrounding the second reference location to ensure the first reference area does not extend into a third party s living space. The example comparator determines whether the device location is within the reference area e.g. within a radius as discussed in connection with in order to decide whether to credit the media exposure to the corresponding panelist or label the exposure as census data.

In the illustrated example of the AME server includes the example panelist associator to associate monitoring information extracted by the beacon parser with a panelist. In the illustrated example when the comparator determines that the distance between a device location and a reference location is less than a threshold distance and or that the device location is within a reference area including a corresponding reference location the example panelist associator associates the monitoring information e.g. the media exposure included in the beacon with a registered panelist. For example the panelist associator may use a lookup table to determine a panelist identifier corresponding to the reference location. However other methods to determine the registered panelist may additionally or alternatively be used. In some examples the panelist associator appends additional panelist information to the corresponding media impression logged by the tagged impression logger . For instance in the example of the panelist associator appends demographic information to the tagged impression logger.

In some examples the panelist associator may be unable to associate monitoring data with a registered panelist. For example the comparator may output a message indicating that the corresponding device location was not within the threshold distance of the reference locations in the panel. In some other examples the beacon parser may not provide a device location. In some such examples the panelist associator attributes this to a non panelist media impression and associates the monitoring information included in the beacon as census data. In the illustrated example the panelist associator appends a label indicating that the corresponding media impression logged by the tagged impression logger is census data.

In the illustrated example of the example data storer stores monitoring information received from the beacon parser the media impression logged by the tagged impression logger and or panelist identifying information received from the panelist associator .

The example data store of may be implemented by any storage device and or storage disc for storing data such as for example flash memory magnetic media optical media etc. Furthermore the data stored in the data store may be in any data format such as for example binary data comma delimited data tab delimited data structured query language SQL structures etc. While in the illustrated example the data store is illustrated as a single database the data store may be implemented by any number and or type s of databases.

In the illustrated example of the reporter generates reports based on the collected monitoring information. In some examples the reports are presented to the media provider s and or other entities. The reports may identify different aspects of media usage such as for example how many impressions the media received and demographics associated with those impressions.

The example time stamper of includes a clock and a calendar. The example time stamper associates a time period e.g. 1 00 a.m. Central Standard Time CST to 1 01 a.m. CST and a date e.g. Jan. 1 2013 with each generated tagged impression entry from the tagged impression logger by for example appending the period of time and the date information to an end of the data in the impression entry including the media impressions identified as census data by the panelist associator .

While an example manner of implementing the AME server of is illustrated in one or more of the elements processes and or devices illustrated in may be combined divided re arranged omitted eliminated and or implemented in any other way. Further the example media hosting server the example client device the example client device the example tag handler the example beacon handler the example beacon parser the example tagged impression logger the example location handler the example distance calculator the example comparator the example panelist associator the example data storer the example data store the example reporter the example time stamper and or more generally the example AME server of may be implemented by hardware software firmware and or any combination of hardware software and or firmware. Thus for example any of the example media hosting server the example client device the example client device the example tag handler the example beacon handler the example beacon parser the example tagged impression logger the example location handler the example distance calculator the example comparator the example panelist associator the example data storer the example data store the example reporter the example time stamper and or more generally the example AME server could be implemented by one or more analog or digital circuit s logic circuits programmable processor s application specific integrated circuit s ASIC s programmable logic device s PLD s and or field programmable logic device s FPLD s . When reading any of the apparatus or system claims of this patent to cover a purely software and or firmware implementation at least one of the example media hosting server the example client device the example client device the example tag handler the example beacon handler the example beacon parser the example tagged impression logger the example location handler the example distance calculator the example comparator the example panelist associator the example data storer the example data store the example reporter and or the example time stamper is are hereby expressly defined to include a tangible computer readable storage device or storage disk such as a memory a digital versatile disk DVD a compact disk CD a Blu ray disk etc. storing the software and or firmware. Further still the example AME server of may include one or more elements processes and or devices in addition to or instead of those illustrated in and or may include more than one of any or all of the illustrated elements processes and devices.

The panelist identifier column of the illustrated example of corresponds to an identifier for a registered panelist. For example when the AME server determines that monitoring information extracted from a beacon may be correlated to a registered panelist the AME server may use the data table of and append the corresponding panelist identifier to the corresponding impression entry in the data table . In some examples when a panelist is identified the AME server may append additional demographic information from the data table to the impression entry. For example the AME server may append the gender age range relationship status etc. of the panelist to the corresponding impression entry in the data table .

In the illustrated example of identifying whether the exposure was monitored via census data or panelist data may be beneficial for analysis purposes. For some purposes census data may include information pertaining to panelists and non panelists.

The panelist identifier of the illustrated example of identifies the panelists that requested the media. While in the illustrated example the panelist identifier is used any other information that may be used to identify the panelist may additionally or alternatively be used such as for example a mobile device identifier e.g. a MAC address a panelist name a telephone number a cookie etc. While in the illustrated example the requested website is used any additional or alternative information may be used to identify the media that was requested such as for example the vendor identifier the tag encoded in the media etc.

The timestamp column of the illustrated example of represents a date and or time when information associated with the media e.g. a website was requested. However the timestamp column may alternatively represent a time when the requested media was rendered e.g. displayed presented etc. by the client device . Storing a timestamp e.g. date and or time enables analysis of when users request particular media e.g. to determine issues such as whether users are more likely to request media from a news website e.g. www.cnn.com on a weekend during a weekday etc. .

Flowcharts representative of example machine readable instructions for implementing the AME server of are shown in . In this example the machine readable instructions comprise a program for execution by a processor such as the processor shown in the example processor platform discussed below in connection with . The program may be embodied in software stored on a tangible computer readable storage medium such as a CD ROM a floppy disk a hard drive a digital versatile disk DVD a Blu ray disk or a memory associated with the processor but the entire program and or parts thereof could alternatively be executed by a device other than the processor and or embodied in firmware or dedicated hardware. Further although the example program is described with reference to the flowcharts illustrated in many other methods of implementing the example AME sever may alternatively be used. For example the order of execution of the blocks may be changed and or some of the blocks described may be changed eliminated or combined.

As mentioned above the example processes of may be implemented using coded instructions e.g. computer and or machine readable instructions stored on a tangible computer readable storage medium such as a hard disk drive a flash memory a read only memory ROM a compact disk CD a digital versatile disk DVD a cache a random access memory RAM and or any other storage device or storage disk in which information is stored for any duration e.g. for extended time periods permanently for brief instances for temporarily buffering and or for caching of the information . As used herein the term tangible computer readable storage medium is expressly defined to include any type of computer readable storage device and or storage disk and to exclude propagating signals and to exclude transmission media. As used herein tangible computer readable storage medium and tangible machine readable storage medium are used interchangeably. Additionally or alternatively the example processes of may be implemented using coded instructions e.g. computer and or machine readable instructions stored on a non transitory computer and or machine readable medium such as a hard disk drive a flash memory a read only memory a compact disk a digital versatile disk a cache a random access memory and or any other storage device or storage disk in which information is stored for any duration e.g. for extended time periods permanently for brief instances for temporarily buffering and or for caching of the information . As used herein the term non transitory computer readable medium is expressly defined to include any type of computer readable storage device and or storage disk and to exclude propagating signals and to exclude transmission media. As used herein when the phrase at least is used as the transition term in a preamble of a claim it is open ended in the same manner as the term comprising is open ended.

The example program of initiates logging tagged impressions at the example AME server . The example program of begins at block when the AME server receives the beacon from the client device in response to the tag e.g. executable instructions included in the media being executed by a client device. For example the beacon handler may receive the beacon . In some examples the beacon handler transmits an acknowledgement message in response to receiving the beacon to the device that sent the beacon. In other examples no response is provided but the data contained in the beacon is logged.

At block the beacon parser determines whether the monitoring information e.g. the location identifier the media identifier the timestamp a cookie etc. included in the beacon is encrypted. For example a location identifier included in the beacon may be encrypted using advanced encryption standard AES algorithms to protect the privacy of the user. If at block the beacon parser determines that the monitoring information is encrypted then at block the decrypter decrypts the monitoring information. For example the decrypter may use AES algorithms to decrypt the monitoring information.

If at block the beacon parser determines the monitoring information is not encrypted or after the decrypter decrypts the monitoring information at block control proceeds to block at which the beacon parser parses the monitoring information included in the beacon for a location identifier . If at block the beacon parser finds the location identifier then at block the beacon parser extracts a device location included in the location identifier . The device location may be used to determine whether to correlate the monitoring information with a panelist.

If at block the beacon parser does not find a location identifier or after the beacon parser extracts the device location from the location identifier at block control proceeds to block at which the tagged impression logger stores a record of the monitored information provided by the beacon . For example the beacon parser may extract a requested media identifier e.g. a URL address a vendor identifier etc. that may be included in the beacon . At block the tagged impression logger flags the record as possible panel data or census data. For example if the beacon parser extracted the device location from the location identifier the tagged impression logger flags the record as possible panel data. Otherwise if the beacon parses did not find a location identifier the tagged impression logger flags the record as census data.

At block the time stamper associates a time period e.g. 1 00 AM Central Standard Time CST to 1 01 AM CST and date e.g. Jan. 1 2013 with the tagged media impression. For example the time stamper may append the period of time and date information to an end of the impression entry in the data store and or may provide the period of time and date information to the data storer .

At block the AME server determines whether to continue processing beacons. If at block the AME server determines to continue processing beacons e.g. the beacon handler is continuing to receive beacons as a result of a tag included in a media response control returns to block to receive another beacon from the client device in response to executing executable instructions in the tag included in the media . Otherwise if at block the AME server determines to end processing beacons e.g. due to a server shutdown event etc. the example process of then ends.

The example program of determines whether to correlate tagged media impression with registered panelists and marks the tagged media impression as either census data or panel data accordingly. The example program of begins at block at which the reporter prepares the tagged media impressions log to be combined with panelist information. For example the reporter may identify the media impressions in the tagged media impressions log that include device locations based on whether the tagged media impression is flagged as census data or possible panel data. Similarly at block the reporter prepares the panelists log for combining with the tagged media impressions log. For example the reporter may utilize the data table to associate the tagged media impression with a panelist identifier.

At block the location handler identifies reference locations associated with the registered panelists to compare to the device location information included in the tagged media impressions log. For example the location handler may parse the reference locations stored in the data table in the data store and identify the reference locations that have the same or nearly the same longitude coordinates or latitude coordinates as the device location information.

At block the distance calculator calculates the distance between a reference location and a device location. If at block the comparator determines that the device location is within a reference area associated with the reference location then at block the panelist associator marks the corresponding impression as panel data. At block the panelist associator uses the data table to associate the impression with a panelist identifier. Control then proceeds to block to determine whether to continue correlating impressions with panel data.

Returning to block if the comparator determines that the device location is not within the reference area associated with the reference location then at block the AME server determines if it is at the end of the panelists log. For example the location handler may determine whether there are additional reference locations in the data table to test against the device location information. If at block the location handler determines it is not at the end of the reference locations to test e.g. there are additional reference locations in the data table control returns to block to calculate the distance between another reference location and the device location. Otherwise if at block the location handler determines it is at the end of the panelists log e.g. there are no more additional reference locations to test against the device location information then at block the panelist associator marks the corresponding impression as census data. Control then proceeds to block to determine whether to continue correlating impressions with panel data.

At block the AME server determines whether to continue correlating impressions with panelists. If at block the AME server determines to continue correlating impressions with panel data e.g. the tagged media impressions log includes additional device locations to test etc. control returns to block to identify reference locations associated with panel data. Otherwise if at block the AME server determines to end correlating impressions with panel data e.g. there are no additional tagged media impressions to check then at block the reporter generates a report and the process of ends.

In the illustrated example of the example applet includes the example beacon transmission section to generate the beacon and to transmit the beacon to for example the AME server . For example example beacon generating line uses the location identifier the media identifier and the timestamp to define the beacon . At example beacon transmitting line the applet causes the client device to transmit the beacon to for example the AME server . In some examples the applet logs the beacon and transmits one or more beacons at a later time. For example the applet may cause the client device to periodically e.g. every 24 hours transmit logged beacons to the AME server .

The example program of illustrates an example method that may be executed by a computing device of an audience measurement entity to collect monitoring information from tagged media. The example program of begins at block when the tag handler instructs the example media hosting server to insert a reference to an executable tag in the media . For example the tag handler may cause the media hosting server to include a dummy image in the media that the media hosting server desires to monitor. At block the tag handler receives a request for the executable tag from the client device . For example the media hosting server may respond to a request for media from the client device with the media including the reference. When the client device presents the media the tag handler receives the client device request for the executable tag in response to the reference. In some implementations block may not be included. For example the tag handler may provide the media hosting server the tag along with the reference and thus when the client device presents the media the media hosting server receives the client device request for the executable tag in response to execution of the reference. In some other implementations the tag handler may provide the tag and instruct the media hosting server to embed the tag into the corresponding media . Thus when the client device presents the media no request is made by the client device for an executable tag. Rather the client device executes the tag which is already present in the media. At block the tag handler transmits the executable tag to the client device . For example the tag handler may retrieve the executable tag from the data store and communicate the executable tag to the client device . An example executable tag is described in further detail below in connection with .

At block the AME server receives the beacon from the client device . For example the client device generates the beacon in response to executing the executable tag and transmits the beacon to the AME server . The example process of then ends.

The example program of illustrated the operation of an example tag in generating an example beacon in response to being executed due to an access to the tagged media . Thus the example program of may be used to implement the executable tag . The example program of begins at block when the executable tag causes the client device to retrieve media identification information from the media . For example the media hosting server may encode the media identification information e.g. a watermark a signature metadata etc. into the media that the client device decodes when accessing the media . At block the executable tag causes the client device to request access to a location application programming interface API of the client device . For example the client device may request permission from a user to access the location API. If at block access to the location API is granted then at block the client device retrieves the device location information of the client device via the location API. In some examples the authorization is granted once and future requests are not needed to access the location API

If at block access to the location API is not granted e.g. the user denies the request or after the client device retrieves the device location information at block then at block the executable tag causes the client device to retrieve date and time information for the media request. For example the client device may include a calendar and clock that the client device accesses to retrieve the date and time information. At block the executable tag causes the client device to generate the beacon . For example the beacon may generate the location identifier to identify the device location information generate the media identifier to identify the media identification information generate the timestamp to identify the date and time information and package the location identifier the media identifier and the timestamp into the beacon . At block the executable tag causes the client device to transmit the beacon to the AME server . The example process of then ends.

The processor platform of the illustrated example includes a processor . The processor of the illustrated example is hardware. For example the processor can be implemented by one or more integrated circuits logic circuits microprocessors or controllers from any desired family or manufacturer.

The processor of the illustrated example includes a local memory e.g. a cache . The processor of the illustrated example is in communication with a main memory including a volatile memory and a non volatile memory via a bus . The volatile memory may be implemented by Synchronous Dynamic Random Access Memory SDRAM Dynamic Random Access Memory DRAM RAMBUS Dynamic Random Access Memory RDRAM and or any other type of random access memory device. The non volatile memory may be implemented by flash memory and or any other desired type of memory device. Access to the main memory is controlled by a memory controller.

The processor platform of the illustrated example also includes an interface circuit . The interface circuit may be implemented by any type of interface standard such as an Ethernet interface a universal serial bus USB and or a PCI express interface.

In the illustrated example one or more input devices are connected to the interface circuit . The input device s permit s a user to enter data and commands into the processor . The input device s can be implemented by for example an audio sensor a microphone a camera still or video a keyboard a button a mouse a touchscreen a track pad a trackball isopoint and or a voice recognition system.

One or more output devices are also connected to the interface circuit of the illustrated example. The output devices can be implemented for example by display devices e.g. a light emitting diode LED an organic light emitting diode OLED a liquid crystal display a cathode ray tube display CRT a touchscreen a tactile output device a printer and or speakers . The interface circuit of the illustrated example thus typically includes a graphics driver card a graphics driver chip or a graphics driver processor.

The interface circuit of the illustrated example also includes a communication device such as a transmitter a receiver a transceiver a modem and or network interface card to facilitate exchange of data with external machines e.g. computing devices of any kind via a network e.g. an Ethernet connection a digital subscriber line DSL a telephone line coaxial cable a cellular telephone system etc. .

The processor platform of the illustrated example also includes one or more mass storage devices for storing software and or data. Examples of such mass storage devices include floppy disk drives hard drive disks compact disk drives Blu ray disk drives RAID systems and digital versatile disk DVD drives.

The coded instructions of may be stored in the mass storage device in the volatile memory in the non volatile memory and or on a removable tangible computer readable storage medium such as a CD or DVD.

From the foregoing it will be appreciated that example methods apparatus and articles of manufacture have been disclosed which collect monitoring information at a census level while allowing the census level monitoring information to be correlated with panelist data and while protecting the privacy of the panelist and the anonymity of the panelist.

Although certain example methods apparatus and articles of manufacture have been disclosed herein the scope of coverage of this patent is not limited thereto. On the contrary this patent covers all methods apparatus and articles of manufacture fairly falling within the scope of the claims of this patent.

