---

title: Method of adjusting a card emulation mode and an electronic device therefor
abstract: A method monitors near field communication (NFC) modes performed by a user and automatically adjusts the periods of the NFC modes according to a frequency of use of each of the NFC modes, and an electronic operates using the method. The method includes determining whether NFC is performed within a set time, monitoring a frequency of use of the performed NFC mode when it is determined that the NFC is performed, and adjusting a period of a card emulation mode according to the frequency of use of the NFC mode.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09379782&OS=09379782&RS=09379782
owner: Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
number: 09379782
owner_city: Yeongtong-gu, Suwon-si, Gyeonggi-do
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20130401
---
This application claims pursuant to 35 U.S.C. 119 a priority to and the benefit of the earlier filing date of a Korean patent application filed in the Korean Intellectual Property Office on Apr. 16 2012 and assigned Serial No. 10 2012 0039144 the entire disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference.

The present invention relates to Near Field Communication NFC and in particular to a method of monitoring Near Field Communication NFC modes and adjusting periods of the NFC modes and an electronic device therefor.

While functions of an electronic device are improved rapidly various short range communication types such as a Radio Frequency IDentification RFID type and an NFC type as well as non contact charge types such as an electromagnetic induction type and a resonance type have been introduced into the electronic devices of the prior art.

NFC is short range wireless communication for transmitting data at low power in a distance within 10 centimeters using frequencies of 13.56 MHz bands. A standard of the NFC known for use in one field of RFID is defined in the International Organization for Standardization ISO 18092 standard document. NFC modes of this particular NFC protocol include a card emulation mode a read write mode and a Peer to Peer P2P mode. The respective NFC modes are sequentially repeated by a set period.

However when a user performs NFC using an electronic device in the prior art an NFC mode which is currently set in the electronic device may differ from an NFC mode which is currently being performed. That is there is a problem in that the user must wait until a period of the NFC mode which is currently being performed is completed before a desired NFC mode is started.

The above described problem occurs in that not only a time delay is generated but also a mode to which a standardized period is applied occurs without considering a frequency of use of an NFC mode per user.

An aspect of the present invention is to solve at least the above mentioned problems and or disadvantages and to provide at least the advantages described below. Accordingly an aspect of the present invention is to provide an apparatus and method for monitoring NFC modes performed by a user and automatically adjusting periods of the NFC modes according to a frequency of use by each of the NFC modes.

Another aspect of the present invention is to provide an apparatus and method for improving convenience of a user in consideration of a frequency of use of a user without applying a standardized NFC mode.

Another aspect of the present invention is to provide an apparatus and method for improving a recognition speed of a card emulation mode and minimizing power consumption of an electronic device by adjusting a period of the card emulation mode among NFC modes.

Exemplary embodiments of the present invention will be described herein below with reference to the accompanying drawings. In the following description well known functions or constructions are not described in detail since they would obscure the invention in unnecessary detail. The present invention may however be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the exemplary embodiments set forth herein. In addition terms described herein which are defined with reference to the functions of the present invention may be implemented differently depending on a user or operator s intention and practice. Therefore the terms should be understood on the basis of the disclosure throughout the specification. The principles and features of this invention may be employed in varied and numerous embodiments without departing from the scope of the invention.

The same reference numbers are used throughout the drawings to refer to the same or like parts. Furthermore although the drawings represent exemplary embodiments of the invention the drawings are not necessarily to scale and certain features may be exaggerated or omitted in order to more clearly illustrate and explain the present invention.

Among the terms set forth herein a terminal refers to any kind of device capable of processing data which is transmitted or received to or from any external entity. The terminal may display icons or menus on a screen to which stored data and various executable functions are assigned or mapped. The terminal may include a computer a notebook a tablet PC a mobile device and the like.

Among the terms set forth herein a screen refers to a display or other output devices which visually display information to the user and which optionally are capable of receiving and electronically processing tactile inputs from a user using a stylo a finger of the user or other techniques for conveying a user selection from the user to the output devices.

Among the terms set forth herein an icon refers to a graphical element such as a figure or a symbol displayed on the screen of the device such that a user can easily select a desired function or data. In particular each icon has a mapping relation with any function being executable in the device or with any data stored in the device and is used for processing functions or selecting data in the device. When a user selects one of the displayed icons the device identifies a particular function or data associated with the selected icon. Then the device executes the identified function or displays the identified data.

Among the terms set forth herein data refers to any kind of information processed by the device including text and or images received from any external entities messages transmitted or received and information created when a specific function is executed by the device.

First of all NFC is short range wireless communication for transmitting data at low power in a distance within 10 centimeters using frequencies having 13.56 MHz bands. A standard of the NFC known for use in one field of RFID is defined in International Organization for Standardization ISO 18092 standard document. As shown in NFC modes are represented in a clock like format and include a card emulation mode in a first period and a read write mode and a Peer to Peer P2P mode in a second period . The respective NFC modes are sequentially repeated by a set period in the clock like format. In more detail the NFC modes include three modes with the card emulation mode in the first period and the read write mode and the P2P mode in the second period . A period of each of the modes such as the periods may be changed by a setting of a user.

Hereinafter when the user performs NFC using an electronic device a description of the present invention will now be given for the respective modes in more detail.

First the card emulation mode among the NFC modes performed in the first period is a mode used when transmitting and receiving information between an external reader and the electronic device. For example the user may move an electronic device having a transportation card function to be close to a reader and may pay transportation fees. Also the user moves an electronic device having a pass card function to be close to an external recognizing device which is positioned on a door of home or an office and may enter the home or the office. In more detail the external reader generates a Radio Frequency RF magnetic field to perform NFC with the electronic device. The electronic device receives power from the RF magnetic field generated by the external reader. Accordingly because the electronic device receives power from the external reader an enormous amount of power is not consumed in the card emulation mode.

Next the read write mode among the NFC modes performed in the second period is a mode for inputting certain information to an RFID tag and recognizing RFID tag information when the user moves the electronic device to be close to the RFID tag. In more detail the electronic device must generate an RF magnetic field to input the certain information to the RFID tag or recognize the RFID tag information. That is because the electronic device generates the RF magnetic field and inputs the certain information to the RFID tag or recognizes the RFID tag information an enormous amount of power is consumed in the read write mode.

Finally the P2P mode performed in the period is a mode used when transmitting and receiving information between electronic devices. In more detail because each of the electronic devices generates an RF magnetic field an enormous amount of power is consumed in the P2P mode in a manner similar to the read write mode during the same period .

As described above the NFC modes include the card emulation mode the read write mode and the P2P mode. The respective NFC modes are sequentially repeated by set periods . In the event that the user moves an electronic device having an NFC function to be close to an external reader the user may be required to pay transportation fees. In the electronic device having the NFC function the card emulation mode the read write mode and the P2P mode are sequentially repeated according to set periods. Accordingly if a period of an NFC mode is located during performance of the read write mode and the P2P mode the user must wait until a period of the card emulation mode is started to perform card emulation. Also when the user inputs certain information to an RFID tag using the electronic device if a period of the NFC mode is located during performance of the card emulation mode and the P2P mode if the P2P mode is in a separate period the user or the electronic device must wait until a period of the read write mode is started to perform read write operations. That is when the user performs NFC using an electronic device in the prior art because NFC modes are uniformly repeated there is a problem in that convenience of the user is not reflected. In more detail there is a problem in that there is no method of automatically adjusting a period of an NFC mode according to an NFC mode frequently used by the user. However in accordance with the exemplary embodiment of the present invention there is a method of monitoring an NFC mode performed within a time set by the user and efficiently adjusting an NFC mode in the electronic device.

An initial default value is set to for example 59t in a period of a card emulation mode and an initial default value is set to for example 1t in a period of a read write mode and P2P mode where the parameter t is a predetermined time unit such as 1 ms. In more detail the entire period for NFC modes set by a user is 60t. In 60t which is the entire period for NFC modes the period of the card emulation mode is set to for example 59t and the period of the read write mode and P2P mode is set to for example 1t. That is a time rate of 59 60 corresponds to the period of the card emulation mode and a time rate of 1 60 corresponds to the period of the read write mode and P2P mode among NFC modes of the electronic device. Accordingly when the user wants to perform NFC necessary for performing the card emulation mode using the electronic device a rate at which NFC may be performed without a time delay is 59 60. In the same sense when the user wants to perform NFC necessary for performing the card emulation mode a time rate capable of being delayed is 1 60. On the other hand when the user wants to perform NFC necessary for performing the read write mode and P2P mode using the electronic device a rate at which NFC may be performed without a time delay is 1 60. In the same sense when the user wants to perform NFC necessary for performing the read write mode and P2P mode a time rate capable of being delayed is 59 60.

When a user performs NFC using an electronic device in the prior art because NFC modes are uniformly repeated there is a problem in that convenience of the user is not reflected. That is there is a problem in that there is no method of adjusting a period of an NFC mode according to an NFC mode frequently used by the user. However in accordance with the exemplary embodiment of the present invention there is a method of monitoring an NFC mode performed within a set time in real time and efficiently adjusting a period of the NFC mode.

It may be verified that 59t which is the initial default value of the period of the card emulation mode of is changed to 119t which is an initial default value of a new period of the card emulation mode. In more detail in accordance with the exemplary embodiment of the present invention if an electronic device determines that NFC is performed the electronic device monitors the performed NFC mode in real time and adjusts a period of the card emulation mode according to the frequency of use of the NFC mode of the user automatically. As shown in the electronic device verifies that the frequency of use of the card emulation mode is high and adjusts the period of the card emulation mode from 59t to 119t. Accordingly after the electronic device adjusts the period of the card emulation mode automatically from 59t to 119t if the entire period of the NFC modes is converted into a time rate a time rate of 119 120 corresponds to the card emulation mode and a time rate of 1 120 corresponds to a read write mode P2P mode having a period of 1t which has not been changed. Therefore when the user wants to perform NFC necessary for performing the card emulation mode using the electronic device a rate at which NFC may be performed without a time delay is 119 120. In the same sense when the user wants to perform NFC necessary for performing the card emulation mode a time rate capable of being delayed is 1 120. On the other hand when the user wants to perform NFC necessary for performing the read write mode and P2P mode a rate at which NFC may be performed without a time delay is 1 120. In the same sense when the user wants to perform NFC necessary for performing the read write mode and P2P mode a time rate capable of being delayed is 119 120. However it may be verified that the period of the read write mode and P2P mode is fixed to 1t. In more detail in accordance with the exemplary embodiment of the present invention the electronic device adjusts only the period of the card emulation mode and does not adjust the period of the read write mode and P2P mode among NFC modes.

As described above when an NFC mode is performed the electronic device according to the exemplary embodiment of the present invention monitors the frequency of use of the performed NFC mode in real time and adjusts periods of the respective NFC modes automatically. Accordingly the electronic device has an advantage in that a probability in which a communication delay will occur when the user performs NFC may be greatly reduced and power consumption of the electronic device may be reduced although a period of the card emulation mode is increased. Herein it is clear that an increased period of the card emulation mode may not be greater than a maximum threshold value such as 120t although the period of the card emulation mode is increased. That is this is because a minimum period of the read write mode and P2P mode must exist although the electronic device determines that the frequency of use of the card emulation mode is high.

An initial default value is set to for example 59t in a period of a card emulation mode and an initial default value is set to for example 1t in a period of a read write mode and P2P mode. In more detail the entire period set by a user is 60t. In 60t which is the entire period for NFC modes the period of the card emulation mode is set to 59t and the period of the read write mode and P2P mode is set to 1t. That is a time rate of 59 60 corresponds to the period of the card emulation mode and a time rate of 1 60 corresponds to the period of the read write mode and P2P mode among NFC modes of the electronic device. Accordingly when the user wants to perform NFC necessary for performing the card emulation mode using the electronic device a rate at which NFC may be performed without a time delay is 59 60. In the same sense when the user wants to perform NFC necessary for performing the card emulation mode a time rate capable of being delayed is 1 60. On the other hand when the user wants to perform NFC necessary for performing the read write mode and P2P mode using the electronic device a rate at which NFC may be performed without a time delay is 1 60. In the same sense when the user wants to perform NFC necessary for performing the read write mode and P2P mode a time rate capable of being delayed is 59 60.

When a user performs NFC using an electronic device in the prior art because NFC modes are uniformly repeated there is a problem in that convenience of the user is not reflected. That is there is a problem in that there is no method of adjusting a period of an NFC mode according to an NFC mode frequently used by the user. However in accordance with the exemplary embodiment of the present invention there is a method of monitoring an NFC mode performed within a set time in real time and efficiently adjusting a period of the NFC mode.

It may be verified that 59t which is the initial default value of the period of the card emulation mode of is changed to 29t which is an initial default value of a new period of a card emulation mode. In more detail in accordance with the exemplary embodiment of the present invention if an electronic device determines that NFC is performed the electronic device monitors the performed NFC mode in real time and adjusts a period of the card emulation mode automatically according to the frequency of use of the NFC mode of the user. As shown in the electronic device verifies that the frequency of use of the read write mode and P2P mode performed in the period is high and adjusts the period of the card emulation mode from 59t to 29t. That is the electronic device fixes the period of the read write mode and P2P mode which is a mode in which the frequency of use of the user is high to 1t. However as a result because the entire period of NFC modes is reduced by half the electronic device effectively increases the period of the read write mode and P2P mode relative to the period of the card emulation mode. Accordingly when the user wants to perform NFC necessary for performing the read write mode and P2P mode using the electronic device a rate at which NFC may be performed without a time delay is 1 30. In the same sense when the user wants to perform NFC necessary for performing the read write mode and P2P mode a time rate capable of being delayed is 29 30. On the other hand when the user wants to perform NFC necessary for performing the card emulation mode a rate at which NFC may be performed without a time delay is 29 30. In the same sense when the user wants to perform NFC necessary for performing the card emulation mode a time rate capable of being delayed is 1 30.

As described above when an NFC mode is performed the electronic device according to the exemplary embodiment of the present invention monitors the frequency of use of the performed NFC mode in real time and adjusts periods of the respective NFC modes automatically. Herein it is clear that a reduced period of the card emulation mode may not be less than a minimum threshold value such as 30t although the period of the card emulation mode is reduced. That is this is because a minimum period of the card emulation mode must exist although the electronic device determines that the frequency of use of the card emulation mode is low.

An initial default value is set to for example 59t in a period of a card emulation mode and an initial default value is set to for example 1t in a period of a read write mode and P2P mode. In more detail the entire period set by a user is 60t. In 60t which is the entire period for NFC modes the period of the card emulation mode is set to 59t and the period of the read write mode and P2P mode is set to 1t. That is when the user wants to perform NFC using an electronic device a time rate of 59 60 corresponds to the period of the card emulation mode and a time rate of 1 60 corresponds to the period of the read write mode and P2P mode. Accordingly when the user wants to perform NFC necessary for performing the card emulation mode using the electronic device a rate at which NFC may be performed without a time delay is 59 60. In the same sense when the user wants to perform NFC necessary for performing the card emulation mode a time rate capable of being delayed is 1 60. On the other hand when the user wants to perform NFC necessary for performing the read write mode and P2P mode using the electronic device a rate at which NFC may be performed without a time delay is 1 60. In the same sense when the user wants to perform NFC necessary for performing the read write mode and P2P mode a time rate capable of being delayed is 59 60.

As shown in it may be verified that a period of a read write mode and P2P mode is fixed to 1t which is the default value which is set for the first time and a period of a card emulation mode is changed to 59t 60k t. The changed period of the card emulation mode is determined according to Equation 1. new period of card emulation mode previous period of card emulation mode . 1 

Herein t represents a set unit of time in which the method tracks and count the number of times each NFC mode is performed and the set unit of time may be a predetermined unit of time or may be set by a user or by the manufacturer of the electronic device. CN represents the number of operations of the card emulation mode per unit of time. RWN represents the number of operations of the read write mode per unit of time. K represents a predetermined correction constant. The new period of the card emulation mode shown in is determined through the following example. That is the new period of the card emulation mode is a value determined in which the previous value of the card emulation mode is 59 t is 60 the number of operations of the card emulation mode per unit time is 2 and the number of operations of the read write mode per unit time is 1. If NFC is not performed in a unit of time when the NFC modes are tracked and counted the new period of the card emulation mode is determined to be the previous period of the card emulation mode plus t K . As a result it may be known that the period of the card emulation mode is increased depending on K which is a predetermined correction constant. When a user performs NFC using an electronic device of the prior art because NFC modes are uniformly repeated there is a problem in that convenience of the user is not reflected. That is there is a problem in that there is no method in the prior art of adjusting a period of an NFC mode according to an NFC mode frequently used by the user. However in accordance with the exemplary embodiment of the present invention there is a method of monitoring an NFC mode performed within a time set by the user in real time and adjusting a new period of the card emulation mode according to Equation 1 to improve convenience of the user.

In one exemplary embodiment the predetermined correction constant K may be set to zero. In an alternative exemplary embodiment the predetermined correction constant K may be set using methods known in the art for adjusting periods for performing NFC modes. For example when CN 3 and RWN 4 but a user do not want to change the period of card emulation mode K may be set 1. For an alternative example when there are no use of the card emulation mode and the read write mode for a period of time that is CN 0 RWN 0 but a user want to increased the period of card emulation mode K is used for increasing the period of card emulation mode.

As shown in the electronic device determines whether NFC is performed within a set time in step . First of all NFC modes include a card emulation mode a read write mode and a P2P mode. The respective NFC modes are sequentially repeated by a set period. Because the electronic device according to the exemplary embodiment of the present invention adjusts a period of the card emulation mode among the NFC modes the electronic device determines whether the NFC is performed within the set time.

If it is determined in step that the NFC is performed within the set time the electronic device monitors the frequency of use of the performed NFC and various NFC modes in step . In more detail the electronic device according to the exemplary embodiment of the present invention monitors the frequency of use of an NFC mode in which the NFC is performed in real time and changes a period of the card emulation mode by referring to the frequency of use of a user of such card emulation. That is the electronic device reflects the frequency of use of an NFC mode changed in real time and changes a period of the card emulation mode without fixing periods of the respective NFC modes. Accordingly the electronic device monitors the frequency of use of the NFC mode performed by the user in real time to ascertain the frequency of use of the performed NFC.

The electronic device calculates a period of the card emulation mode using a predetermined method in step . In more detail the electronic device fixes a period of the read write mode and P2P mode changes a period of the card emulation mode and adjusts the entire period of NFC modes. For example if the electronic device monitors that NFC necessary for performing the card emulation mode is mainly performed the electronic device has an advantage in that a delay time capable of being generated during NFC is prevented by increasing a period of the card emulation mode. Also the electronic device has an effect on power reduction by reducing the entire period of the read write mode and P2P mode in which power consumption is relatively high in the electronic device.

The electronic device which calculates the period of the card emulation mode using the predetermined method in step applies the changed period of the card emulation mode and performs NFC in step . In more detail the electronic device applies a new period of the card emulation mode which is calculated by the method according to the exemplary embodiment of the present invention to a period of an NFC mode and performs NFC continuously. That is the electronic device improves convenience of the user by reflecting a communication environment changed in real time without using fixed and standardized periods of NFC modes. The method of then ends.

Referring back to if it is determined that the NFC is not performed within the set time in step the electronic device sets a period of an NFC mode when performing NFC for the first time to a default value and performs NFC in step . In more detail a period of an NFC mode is set according to a default value which is set for the first time when the electronic device performs NFC. That is because the electronic device does not monitor NFC which is not yet performed the period of the NFC mode is set to the default value which is set for the first time and NFC is performed. The method of then ends.

This electronic device may be a portable electronic device. For example electronic device may be a portable terminal a mobile phone a mobile pad a media player a tablet computer a handheld computer or a Personal Digital Assistant PDA . Also the electronic device may be a certain portable electronic device including a device in which two or more functions are combined among these devices.

This electronic device includes a memory a processor unit a first wireless communication subsystem a second wireless communication subsystem an external port an audio subsystem a speaker a microphone an Input Output I O system a touch screen other or different input control devices or units a motion or movement sensor an optical or light sensor and a camera subsystem . The memory and the external port may be a plurality of memories and external ports respectively.

The processor unit may include a memory interface one or more processors and a peripheral interface . In some cases the whole processor unit is referred to as a processor. In accordance with the exemplary embodiment of the present invention the processor unit adjusts a period of a card emulation mode according to the frequency of use of an NFC mode performs NFC according to a period of an NFC mode in which a period of an NFC mode is set to a default value when NFC is performed for the first time and fixes a period of a read write mode and P2P mode among NFC modes. In more detail when NFC is performed the processor unit ascertains the frequency of use of the card emulation mode and the read write mode and P2P mode and adjusts periods of the respective NFC modes in real time. That is the processor unit monitors the frequency of use which is changed in real time from a default value which is set for the first time fixes the period of the read write mode and P2P mode adjusts the period of the card emulation mode and adjusts the entire period of the NFC modes. For example the processor unit calculates the period of the card emulation mode using the predetermined method shown in and described herein. In more detail the processor unit fixes the period of the read write mode and P2P mode changes the period of the card emulation mode and adjusts the entire period of the NFC modes. That is if the processor unit monitors that NFC necessary for performing the card emulation mode is mainly performed the processor unit increases the period of the card emulation mode and prevents a delay time capable of being generated during NFC. The processor executes several software programs and performs several functions for the electronic device . Also the processor performs processing and control for voice communication and data communication. Also in addition to these functions the processor executes a specific software module and or a command set stored in the memory and plays a role in performing several specific functions corresponding to the software module. That is the processor operates with the software modules stored in the memory and performs the method according to the exemplary embodiment of the present invention.

The processor may include one or more data processors an image processor or a codec. The processor may separately include the data processors the image processor or the codec. Also the processor may include several processors for performing different functions. The peripheral interface connects the I O system of the electronic device and several peripheral devices to the processor and the memory though the memory interface .

A variety of components of the electronic device may be coupled by one or more communication buses or stream lines represented by the lines and arrows connecting the various components.

The external port is used to connect the electronic device to another electronic device directly or connect the electronic device to another electronic device indirectly through a network e.g. the Internet an intranet a wireless Local Area Network LAN etc. . For example the external port may be but is not limited to a Universal Serial Bus USB port a port compatible with FIREWIRE a serial bus interface standard for high speed communications and isochronous real time data transfer commercially available from APPLE CORPORATION etc.

The motion or movement sensor and the optical or light sensor may be connected to the peripheral interface and may perform several functions. For example the motion or movement sensor and the optical or light sensor may connect to the peripheral interface may sense motion of the electronic device and may sense light from the outside respectively. Furthermore a position measurement system and other sensors such as a temperature sensor and a bio sensor may connect to the peripheral interface and may perform related functions.

The camera subsystem may perform a camera function including a photo and video clip recording function.

The optical or light sensor may be a Charge Coupled Device CCD or a Complementary Metal Oxide Semiconductor CMOS device.

A communication function is performed through the wireless communication subsystems and . Each of the wireless communication subsystems and may include a radio frequency receiver and transceiver and or a beam e.g. infrared ray receiver and transceiver. The first communication subsystem and the second communication subsystem may be classified according to a communication network through which the electronic device communicates. For example the communication network may be but is not limited to a Global System for Mobile communication GSM network an Enhanced Data GSM Environment EDGE network a Code Division Multiple Access CDMA network a W CDMA network a Long Term Evolution LTE network an Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiple Access OFDMA network a WI FI network implementing WI FI being a wireless technology for data exchange over a computer network commercially available from the WI FI ALLIANCE a WiMax network or and a BLUETOOTH network implementing BLUETOOTH a short range wireless communications technology at the 2.4 GHz band commercially available from the BLUETOOTH SPECIAL INTEREST GROUP INC. Each of the communication subsystems and may include a communication subsystem designed to be operated through the communication network. Herein in accordance with the exemplary embodiment of the present invention because it is necessary to perform WI FI communication through the WI FI network as shown in one of the wireless communication subsystems and may be operated through the WI FI network. The wireless communication subsystems and may be combined and configured as one wireless communication subsystem.

The audio subsystem may connect to the speaker and the microphone and may be responsible for inputting and outputting an audio stream such as a voice recognition function a voice copy function a digital recording function and a phone call function. That is the audio subsystem communicates with a user through the speaker and the microphone . The audio subsystem receives a data stream through the peripheral interface of the processor unit and converts the received data stream into an electric stream or signal. The converted electric stream or signal is transmitted to the speaker . The speaker converts the electric stream or signal into a sound wave to which a user may listen and outputs the converted sound wave. The microphone converts a sound wave transmitted from the user or other sound sources into an electric stream or signal. The audio subsystem receives the converted electric stream from the microphone . The audio subsystem converts the received electric stream or signal into an audio data stream and transmits the converted audio data stream to the peripheral interface . The audio subsystem may include an attachable and or detachable earphone headphone or headset.

The I O system may include a touch screen controller and or other or different input controllers . The touch screen controller may be coupled to the touch screen . The touch screen and the touch screen controller may detect but are not limited to contact near contact and or motion or the stopping of contact and or motion of a user s finger or stylus using not only capacitive resistive infrared ray and surface acoustic wave technologies for determining one or more contact or near contact points with the touch screen but also a known multi touch sensing technology including other proximity sensor arrangement or other elements known in the art. The other or different input controllers may be coupled to the other or different input control device or unit . The other or different input control device or unit may be pointer devices such as one or more buttons a rocket switch a thumb wheel a dial a stick and or a stylus.

The touch screen provides an input output interface between the electronic device and the user. That is the touch screen transmits a touch input of the user to the electronic device . Also the touch screen is a medium for displaying an output from the electronic device to the user. That is the touch screen displays a visual output to the user. This visual output may be a text type a graphic type a video type and a combined type of such text graphic and video types.

The touch screen may be any one of several displays known in the art. For example the touch screen may be but is not limited to a Liquid Crystal Display LCD a Light Emitting Diode LED a Light emitting Polymer Display LPD an Organic Light Emitting Diode OLED an Active Matrix Organic Light Emitting Diode AMOLED or a Flexible LED FLED .

The memory may be coupled to the memory interface . The memory may include a high speed Random Access Memory RAM such as one or more magnetic storages a non volatile memory one or more optical storages and or a flash memory e.g. a NAND flash memory or a NOR flash memory .

The memory stores data and software components. The software components include an Operating System OS module a communication module a graphic module a user interface module a CODEC module a camera module one or more application modules a monitoring module an algorithm or method determining module etc. Also the modules which are the software components may be expressed in a set of instructions. Accordingly the modules are expressed in an instruction set. Also the modules are expressed in programs or applications. The stored data includes the values of the various periods of the card emulation mode the read write mode and the P2P mode including the default period values initial period values previous period values and current period values which are set by the user or at the time of manufacture of the electronic device and which are changed based on the frequency of use of the NFC modes as described herein in the present invention.

The OS module e.g. an embedded OS such as WINDOWS an operating system commercially available from MICROSOFT CORPORATION as well as Linux Darwin RTXC UNIX OS X or VxWorks includes several software components for controlling a general system operation. For example control of this general system operation may include memory management and control storage hardware device control and management power control and management etc. This OS module also performs a function for smoothly communicating between several hardware devices and software components modules .

The communication module may communicate with other electronic devices such as a computer a server and or a portable terminal through the wireless communication subsystems and or the external port .

The graphic module includes several software components for providing and displaying graphics on the touch screen . The term graphics is defined herein as text web pages icons digital images videos animations etc.

The user interface module includes several software components related to a user interface. The user interface module includes contents about whether a state of a user interface is changed to any state whether a state of a user interface is changed in any condition etc.

The CODEC module may include software components related to encoding and decoding of video files. The CODEC module may include a video stream module such as an MPEG module and or an H204 module. Also the CODEC module may include a code module for several audio files such as AAA files AMR files and WMA files. Also the CODEC module includes an instruction set corresponding to the exemplary embodiment of the present invention.

The camera module includes cameral related software components capable of performing camera related processes and functions.

The application module includes at least one of a browser function an email function an instant message function a word processing function a keyboard emulation function an address book function a touch list function a widget function a Digital Right Management DRM function a voice recognition function a voice copy function a position determining function a location based service function etc.

The monitoring module verifies the frequency of performance of the card emulation mode the read write mode and P2P mode within a time set by the user.

The algorithm or method determining module adjusts a period of the card emulation mode according to and the method of the present invention described herein.

A variety of functions of the electronic device which are described above or to be described later may be executed by one or more streaming processing hardware including an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC software and or combination of them.

The above described apparatus and methods according to the present invention can be implemented in hardware or firmware or as software or computer code or combinations thereof. In addition the software or computer code can also be stored in a non transitory recording medium such as a CD ROM a RAM a ROM whether erasable or rewritable or not a floppy disk CDs DVDs memory chips a hard disk a magnetic storage media an optical recording media or a magneto optical disk or computer code downloaded over a network originally stored on a remote recording medium a computer readable recording medium or a non transitory machine readable medium and to be stored on a local recording medium so that the methods described herein can be rendered in such software computer code software modules software objects instructions applications applets apps etc. that is stored on the recording medium using a general purpose computer a digital computer or a special processor or in programmable or dedicated hardware such as an ASIC or FPGA. As would be understood in the art the computer the processor microprocessor controller or the programmable hardware include volatile and or non volatile storage and memory components e.g. RAM ROM Flash etc. that may store or receive software or computer code that when accessed and executed by the computer processor or hardware implement the processing methods described herein. In addition it would be recognized that when a general purpose computer accesses code for implementing the processing shown herein the execution of the code transforms the general purpose computer into a special purpose computer for executing the processing shown herein. In addition the program may be electronically transferred through any medium such as communication signals transmitted by wire wireless connections and their equivalents. The programs and computer readable recording medium can also be distributed in network coupled computer systems so that the computer readable code is stored and executed in a distributed fashion.

While the present invention has been particularly shown and described with reference to exemplary embodiments thereof it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and details may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention as defined by the appended claims.

