---

title: Trusted security zone watermark
abstract: Embodiments relate generally to methods and systems for creating and using a watermark for verification of operation in a trusted security zone of a mobile device. The watermark may be created or chosen by a user and may be unique to the user. The watermark may be stored in a trusted security zone of the mobile device and may not be accessible from any other area of the mobile device. The watermark may comprise one or more of an image, an audio file, a video, a shape, a signature, a word, a phrase, or a number. The watermark may be verified by a user before operation of a secure application executed in the trusted security zone of the mobile device, and the watermark may also be present throughout the use of a secure application.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09104840&OS=09104840&RS=09104840
owner: Sprint Communications Company L.P.
number: 09104840
owner_city: Overland Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130305
---
Electronic communications may carry a wide variety of content for example electronic mail medical records financial transactions and other confidential information. The electronic communications may travel for some of the communication end to end path over unsecured communication links where the content may be subject to tampering or intrusion. A variety of security measures have been applied to provide increased security and to raise the level of difficulty for nefarious actors attempting to access the confidential information.

In an embodiment a method for creating a trusted security zone watermark during the start up procedure of a mobile device is disclosed. The method comprises operating a mobile device comprising a trusted security zone opening a start up application executed in the trusted security zone capturing an image using the mobile device while executing the start up application storing the image in the trusted security zone wherein access to the trusted security zone is restricted to the start up application and to one or more secure applications and designating the image as a watermark wherein the watermark is presented by the mobile device when a user is operating a secure application executed in the trusted security zone of the mobile device

In an embodiment a method for creating a trusted security zone watermark during the start up procedure of a mobile device is disclosed. The method comprises operating a mobile device comprising a trusted security zone opening a start up application executed in the trusted security zone inputting a media file using the mobile device while operating the start up application storing the media file in the trusted security zone wherein access to the trusted security zone is restricted to the start up application and to one or more secure applications and designating the media file as a watermark wherein the watermark is presented by the mobile device when a user is operating a secure application executed in the trusted security zone of the mobile device.

In an embodiment a method of verifying that a user is operating a mobile device in a trusted security zone is disclosed. The method comprises executing a secure application wherein the secure application is executed in a trusted security zone of a mobile device presenting a watermark to a user wherein the presence of the watermark provides verification that the secure application is executing in the trusted security zone and wherein the watermark comprises one or more of an image an audio file a video a word a phrase a number or set of numbers and receiving indication that the watermark is present and correct before any information in the secure application is accessed wherein the watermark remains present in some form for the duration of the execution of the secure application.

These and other features will be more clearly understood from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings and claims.

It should be understood at the outset that although illustrative implementations of one or more embodiments are illustrated below the disclosed systems and methods may be implemented using any number of techniques whether currently known or not yet in existence. The disclosure should in no way be limited to the illustrative implementations drawings and techniques illustrated below but may be modified within the scope of the appended claims along with their full scope of equivalents.

Embodiments of the disclosure are directed to methods and systems for verifying operation in a trusted security zone on a device such as mobile device. A user may operate one or more secure applications on a mobile device wherein the secure application s may be stored and executed in a trusted security zone of the mobile device. It may in some cases be desired to provide indication to the user that they are operating in the trusted security zone for example to give a user confidence in using a trusted application that confidential information is unlikely to be exposed or stolen. An indication may be provided visually and or audibly for example. A unique indicator referred to herein as a trusted security zone watermark or more concisely as a watermark may provide an indication of secure operation. In some contexts the unique indicator may also be referred to as a Trust Mark. In some contexts the unique indicator may be referred to as a trusted execution environment TEE bug or icon. It will be appreciated that the unique indicator may be referred to using a variety of terms. A unique or personalized watermark may be more difficult to duplicate or imitate than a generic watermark or indicator that might be used. Duplication of the watermark may allow a malicious application to act as if it was authorized by trust zone wherein a user may enter secure information that would be captured by the malicious application.

The unique indicator or watermark may be chosen and or created by the user. As an example during initial start up of a device comprising a trusted security zone a user may be prompted to create the unique watermark. The watermark may comprise one or more of an image an audio file a video a word a phrase or a number and may be captured or created using hardware on the mobile device such as a camera a microphone a keypad a touch screen etc. The watermark may be stored in an area of memory protected by the trusted security zone of the mobile device and may not be accessible to any application or device outside of the trusted security zone. In other words the devices through which the watermark may be input to the mobile device or potentially modified may be captured by the trusted security zone for that period of input or modification such that other entities which may be malicious do not have access to the inputs and or outputs of the devices cameras microphones touch screen etc. 

For example a secure application that executes in the trusted security zone which may be also known as a start up application or watermark application may take over or capture the camera of a mobile device and may prompt a user to capture a unique photo using the camera. The photo would then be stored in the trusted security zone of the mobile device and the photo may then be designated as the watermark for that mobile device. Then the watermark may be presented by the mobile device whenever a user accesses a secure application executed in the trusted security zone. Additionally in some cases the user may be asked to verify the presence and accuracy of the watermark by a dialog box that may appear on the screen of the mobile device before execution of the secure application. In some cases the watermark may be periodically reset renewed or refreshed. As an example after a set number of months of using a first watermark the start up application may require the user to create or input a second watermark and this process may be repeated periodically.

In another example the watermark may comprise a drawing shape or signature that may be input using a touch screen or other similar device of the mobile device. The watermark may also comprise a phrase number or word input using a touch screen or keypad of the mobile device. Additionally the watermark may comprise an audio or video file recorded using the mobile device. Recording audio and or video may comprise the use of a microphone and or a camera of the mobile device. Alternatively the watermark may be chosen by a user from options presented by the secure application.

In some cases the watermark may be presented at the initiation of a secure application where a user may be asked to verify the presence and accuracy of the watermark. Additionally the watermark may be present throughout the use of the secure application in some form wherein the watermark may comprise a background image an icon in a portion of the screen a dynamic image operable to change based on variable circumstances or another representation of the watermark.

Additionally a similar approach may be employed without the presence of a trusted security zone on the mobile device. For example a watermark may be created and stored within a secure element or other hardware trust enabling devices on a mobile device. The secure element may be operable to store and protect the watermark after it is input to the mobile device and one or more secure applications may be executed on or by the secure element where the secure applications may present the watermark when operated.

A trusted security zone provides chipsets with a hardware root of trust a secure execution environment for applications and secure access to peripherals. A hardware root of trust means the chipset should only execute programs intended by the device manufacturer or vendor and resists software and physical attacks and therefore remains trusted to provide the intended level of security. The chipset architecture is designed to promote a programmable environment that allows the confidentiality and integrity of assets to be protected from specific attacks. Trusted security zone capabilities are becoming features in both wireless and fixed hardware architecture designs. Providing the trusted security zone in the main mobile device chipset and protecting the hardware root of trust removes the need for separate secure hardware to authenticate the device or user. To ensure the integrity of the applications requiring trusted data such as a mobile financial services application the trusted security zone also provides the secure execution environment where only trusted applications can operate safe from attacks. Security is further promoted by restricting access of non trusted applications to peripherals such as data inputs and data outputs while a trusted application is running in the secure execution environment. In an embodiment the trusted security zone may be conceptualized as hardware assisted security.

A complete trusted execution environment TEE may be implemented through the use of the trusted security zone hardware and software architecture. The trusted execution environment is an execution environment that is parallel to the execution environment of the main mobile device operating system. The trusted execution environment and or the trusted security zone may provide a base layer of functionality and or utilities for use of applications that may execute in the trusted security zone. For example in an embodiment trust tokens may be generated by the base layer of functionality and or utilities of the trusted execution environment and or trusted security zone for use in trusted end to end communication links to document a continuity of trust of the communications. Through standardization of application programming interfaces APIs the trusted execution environment becomes a place to which scalable deployment of secure services can be targeted. A device which has a chipset that has a trusted execution environment on it may exist in a trusted services environment where devices in the trusted services environment are trusted and protected against attacks. The trusted execution environment can be implemented on mobile phones and tablets as well as extending to other trusted devices such as personal computers servers sensors medical devices point of sale terminals industrial automation handheld terminals automotive etc.

The trusted security zone is implemented by partitioning all of the hardware and software resources of the mobile device into two partitions a secure partition and a normal partition. The secure partition may be implemented by a first physical processor and the normal partition may be implemented by a second physical processor. Alternatively the secure partition may be implemented by a first virtual processor and the normal partition may be implemented by a second virtual processor. Placing sensitive resources in the secure partition can protect against possible attacks on those resources. For example resources such as trusted software applications may run in the secure partition and have access to hardware peripherals such as a touchscreen or a secure location in memory. Less secure peripherals such as wireless radios may be disabled completely while the secure partition is being accessed while other peripherals may only be accessed from the secure partition. While the secure partition is being accessed through the trusted execution environment the main mobile operating system in the normal partition is suspended and applications in the normal partition are prevented from accessing the secure peripherals and data. This prevents corrupted applications or malware applications from breaking the trust of the device.

The trusted security zone is implemented by partitioning the hardware and software resources to exist in a secure subsystem which is not accessible to components outside the secure subsystem. The trusted security zone is built into the processor architecture at the time of manufacture through hardware logic present in the trusted security zone which enables a perimeter boundary between the secure partition and the normal partition. The trusted security zone may only be manipulated by those with the proper credential and in an embodiment may not be added to the chip after it is manufactured. Software architecture to support the secure partition may be provided through a dedicated secure kernel running trusted applications. Trusted applications are independent secure applications which can be accessed by normal applications through an application programming interface in the trusted execution environment on a chipset that utilizes the trusted security zone.

In an embodiment the normal partition applications run on a first virtual processor and the secure partition applications run on a second virtual processor. Both virtual processors may run on a single physical processor executing in a time sliced fashion removing the need for a dedicated physical security processor. Time sliced execution comprises switching contexts between the two virtual processors to share processor resources based on tightly controlled mechanisms such as secure software instructions or hardware exceptions. The context of the currently running virtual processor is saved the context of the virtual processor being switched to is restored and processing is restarted in the restored virtual processor. Time sliced execution protects the trusted security zone by stopping the execution of the normal partition while the secure partition is executing.

The two virtual processors context switch via a processor mode called monitor mode when changing the currently running virtual processor. The mechanisms by which the processor can enter monitor mode from the normal partition are tightly controlled. The entry to monitor mode can be triggered by software executing a dedicated instruction the Secure Monitor Call SMC instruction or by a subset of the hardware exception mechanisms such as hardware interrupts which can be configured to cause the processor to switch into monitor mode. The software that executes within monitor mode then saves the context of the running virtual processor and switches to the secure virtual processor.

The trusted security zone runs a separate operating system that is not accessible to the device users. For security purposes the trusted security zone is not open to users for installing applications which means users do not have access to install applications in the trusted security zone. This prevents corrupted applications or malware applications from executing powerful instructions reserved to the trusted security zone and thus preserves the trust of the device. The security of the system is achieved at least in part by partitioning the hardware and software resources of the mobile phone so they exist in one of two partitions the secure partition for the security subsystem and the normal partition for everything else. Placing the trusted security zone in the secure partition and restricting access from the normal partition protects against software and basic hardware attacks. Hardware logic ensures that no secure partition resources can be accessed by the normal partition components or applications. A dedicated secure partition operating system runs in a virtual processor separate from the normal partition operating system that likewise executes in its own virtual processor. Users may install applications on the mobile device which may execute in the normal partition operating system described above. The trusted security zone runs a separate operating system for the secure partition that is installed by the mobile device manufacturer or vendor and users are not able to install new applications in or alter the contents of the trusted security zone.

Turning now to a communication system is described. In an embodiment the communication system comprises a mobile device comprising a trusted security zone a permissive sector a cellular radio transceiver an optional near field communication transceiver an optional secure element and an optional user interface . In an embodiment the trusted security zone comprises a secure application wherein one of the secure applications may comprise a start up application . The permissive sector may comprise one or more device applications . The mobile device may engage in a variety of communication exchanges. The mobile device may comprise a variety of devices such as a mobile phone a personal digital assistant PDA a media player a laptop computer a tablet computer and other electronic devices having a macro cellular radio transceiver.

As described above the trusted security zone may be provided by a physically separate processor or by a virtual processor. The one or more secure application may be any of a variety of applications that process and or transmit confidential information. The confidential information may comprise sensitive business documents such as electronic mail marketing literature business plans client lists addresses employee data intellectual property documents and the like. The confidential information may comprise personal medical records or medical data that are subject to privacy requirements enforced by government regulatory bodies or commercial standards. The confidential information may comprise financial information such as account numbers authentication identities account balance information and the like.

When processing and or transmitting the confidential information the secure application executes at least partially in the trusted security zone . It is a characteristic or feature of the trusted security zone as described more fully above that when the secure application executes in the trusted security zone untrusted applications are prevented from executing and or accessing trusted memory partitions and or accessing the display communication interfaces or input devices of the mobile device thereby reducing the opportunity for malware that may have infiltrated the mobile device to corrupt or to monitor the confidential information.

In an embodiment the system comprises a network . The network may be a private network a public network or a combination thereof. The network may promote voice communications and data communications. Portions of the network may provide an IP Multimedia Subsystem IMS network. The mobile device may couple to the network by a variety of communication paths. The mobile device may communicate with a base transceiver station via a wireless link according to any of a variety of wireless communications protocols including but not limited to code division multiple access CDMA long term evolution LTE worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX global system for mobile communications GSM or other wireless communication protocol. The wireless link between the mobile device and the base transceiver station may couple the mobile device to the network .

In an embodiment the mobile device may communicate with a point of sale POS terminal using the near field communication transceiver based on a short range wireless communication protocol and the point of sale terminal may be coupled to the network . In an embodiment the mobile device may communicate with a door scanner via the near field communication transceiver based on a short range wireless communication protocol. In an embodiment the mobile device may communicate with a femtocell via a wireless link according to any of a variety of wireless protocols including but not limited to code division multiple access CDMA long term evolution LTE worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX global system for mobile communications GSM or other wireless communication protocol.

As is known to those of skill in the art a secure element SE may be a specialized semiconductor device and or semiconductor chip that is designed to thwart attempts to reverse engineer the secure element or to physically slice and examine the secure element under a microscope. In an embodiment the secure element may be provided in a separate first memory chip. This semiconductor technology may be employed to store confidential information such as financial account balances fund balances and or electronic money. The secure element may allow only a limited number of applications to access the secure element and or may limit the functions that may be initiated by applications. In an embodiment the near field communication transceiver may be coupled to the secure element to promote secure payment interactions between a fund stored in the secure element and the point of sale terminal .

In an embodiment the trusted security zone may be provided in a secure area of a processor and or memory chip shared with the permissive sector or in a separate processor and or memory chip. In an embodiment at least part of the trusted security zone may share the first memory chip with the secure element . Alternatively at least part of the trusted security zone may be provided in a separate second memory chip. The trusted security zone may be provided as what may be conceptualized as invisible space. In an embodiment at least some of the memory addresses occupied by the trusted security zone may be inaccessible to device applications executing out of permissive sector . This demarcation of accessible memory addresses versus inaccessible memory addresses may be provided by the operating system of the mobile device . In an embodiment the trusted security zone may encapsulate a trusted execution environment TEE for example conforming at least partially to the Global Platform 2.0 or later revision trusted execution environment standard. It is understood however that the trusted security zone is contemplated to provide further functionality than that envisioned by the trusted execution environment standards.

In an embodiment a trust exchange service is provided in the trusted security zone . The trust exchange service may be conceptualized as bridging between the permissive sector and the trusted security zone . The trust exchange service promotes secure interactions between the applications executing in the permissive sector and applications executing in the trusted security zone . The security may be provided using one or more techniques. For example the trust exchange service may pause a plurality of execution threads when initiating an interaction with the trusted security zone for example while handling a request for service from the centralized media controller application . This feature may reduce the opportunity that other threads may sniff or otherwise seek to intrude on the operation. For example the trust exchange service may impose a criteria that all communication between the permissive sector and the trusted security zone be conducted using data that is transformed according to protocols of the trusted security zone for example using encryption and or using hashing. The trust exchange service may also hide address space in the trusted security zone and or make the address space inaccessible to the permissive sector without the mediation of the trust exchange service .

The device applications may be any of a variety of applications. One of the device applications may be a telephone application that receives dialed digits and attempts to originate a voice call for example a voice over Internet Protocol VoIP call to a called telephone. One of the device applications may be a web browser application that requests content from the network for example by sending out a hypertext transport protocol HTTP message embedding a universal reference locator URL . One of the device applications may be a media player that requests streaming media from the network . Many of the device applications may depend upon communication service provided by an IMS network to deliver their functionality to an end user of the mobile device . One of the device applications may comprise a mobile transaction interface where a user may complete a purchase using the application and secure information such as credit card information may be communicated through the application.

The user interface of the mobile device may in some embodiments comprise a display an input system a speaker system and a microphone. In some embodiments the display may comprise a screen and the input system may comprise a keypad and or a touch screen for example. The speaker system may communicate audio such as media or messages to a user of the mobile device . The microphone may receive voice and or audio from a user. In an embodiment a user may utilize the user interface to communicate with the mobile device for example to initiate the execution of a device application and or a secure application . Additionally a user may receive communication from the mobile device via the user interface such as messages emails contact information caller identification call history internet access etc.

In an embodiment a start up application may be operable to activate at some point during the initial set up of the mobile device such as when the mobile device is operated for the first time and or when a new user is operating the mobile device . In an embodiment the start up application may execute the first time one of the secure applications executes. The start up application executes in the trusted security zone and may be considered to be a trusted application or a secure application. The start up application may prompt a user to input and or capture a media file that may be used as a watermark to indicate that the user is operating in the trusted security zone . The media file may comprise an image an audio file a video a word a phrase a number or a combination of the above. The media file may be designated as the watermark and it may be only stored by the start up application and or in the trusted security zone . This may prevent duplication or imitation of the watermark by corrupted applications or malware applications.

In some embodiments the watermark may be presented by the mobile device to the user during the operation of any secure application s in the trusted security zone . In some embodiments a secure application may prompt a user for confirmation that the watermark is present and correct before the application executes or before the application performs trusted instructions for example before the application accesses trusted memory and or trusted data. Because only the start up application executing in the trusted execution environment and or in the trusted security zone can create the watermark because the watermark is stored in trusted memory and because only a secure application or the start up application can access the watermark if the watermark presented by the mobile device can be visually verified by the user as the watermark they stored the trusted security zone must be active. Therefore a user can have reasonable confidence that the mobile device is executing in the trusted security zone . In some embodiments the start up application may be responsible for presenting the watermark to the user upon activation of any secure application operated in the trusted security zone . Alternatively in an embodiment the secure application may be responsible for presenting the watermark.

In some embodiments the watermark may be periodically reset renewed or refreshed. As an example after a set number of months of using a first watermark the start up application may require the user to create or input a second watermark and this process may be repeated periodically. This may further ensure the security of the watermark from malware or other malicious applications.

The watermark may in some embodiments comprise an image where the image may be a photo a drawing a shape a number a word a phrase or a combination of the above. The image may be captured by the mobile device while operating in the trusted security zone wherein a start up application may prompt a user to capture the image. In some embodiments the image may be captured using a camera on the mobile device . Additionally a touch screen touch pad mouse and or keypad may be used to capture the image wherein a user may draw write type or otherwise create an image using the hardware of the mobile device . In another embodiment a user may be presented options of an image number phrase shape word etc. and may make a personalized choice of one or more of the above wherein the choices may be stored in the trusted security zone and not accessible to other areas of the mobile device .

In some embodiments the image may appear as a background on the display screen of the user interface of the mobile device throughout the use of a secure application . Alternatively the image may appear as an icon in at least a portion of the screen of the mobile device wherein the icon may in some embodiments comprise a version of the original image that was captured. Additionally in some embodiments the icon or image may be operable to change appearance such as color size transparency location etc. based on variable circumstances such as the level of security that the user is operating under the role the user in operation under and similar cases. As an example the icon or image may appear green while a user is operating in a verified secure zone of the mobile device the image may be colored yellow if the security is suspicious or unknown and the image may be colored red if the security is known to be compromised for example by corrupted applications or malware applications. The image may also comprise a dynamic feature for example the image may flash or change in a repeated or continuous fashion to indicate variations as described above.

As an example presenting the watermark to a user may comprise a sequence of steps. First the watermark may be displayed in high resolution wherein the watermark image may be full screen or fill most of the screen of the mobile device . The presentation of the watermark in high resolution and a large scale may aid in verification by a user wherein a user may be able to discern if the watermark is correct based on the details of the image. Then after the watermark is verified by a user the watermark may be changed to appear in a less noticeable fashion during the operation of a secure application . This may comprise making the watermark a background image wherein the image may in some embodiments be at least partially transparent and or altered in color to appear less obtrusive. Alternatively the watermark may become a smaller icon that appears in a portion of the screen of the mobile device wherein the icon may in some embodiments be at least partially transparent and or altered in color to appear less obtrusive. The continuing presence of the watermark in some form may provide confidence to the user that they are operation in the trusted security zone. In some embodiments the watermark may be presented in high resolution at one or more points during the operation of the secure application for example when particular secure information is requested such as a social security number or other similar information. A user may request that the watermark be presented during the use of a secure application as described above or they may wish to disable this feature and this may be controlled in the settings of a secure application .

In another embodiment the watermark may comprise an audio file that plays sounds at the initiation of a secure application and or throughout the use of the secure application . The audio file may be recorded by the user and or may be chosen from options presented to the user. Additionally the watermark may comprise a video file that plays and or sounds at the initiation of the secure application and or throughout the use of the secure application . The video file may be recorded by the user and or may be chosen from options presented to the user.

In some embodiments a combination of the above listed media files may be used to verify the security of the operation in the mobile device wherein an image may be paired with a word number and or phrase for example or an audio file may be paired with an image word number and or phrase providing additional complexity to the verification of secure operation. Any combination of one or more of the discussed watermarks may be utilized to further ensure the security of the operation of the mobile device .

The DSP or some other form of controller or central processing unit operates to control the various components of the mobile device in accordance with embedded software or firmware stored in memory or stored in memory contained within the DSP itself. In addition to the embedded software or firmware the DSP may execute other applications stored in the memory or made available via information carrier media such as portable data storage media like the removable memory card or via wired or wireless network communications. The application software may comprise a compiled set of machine readable instructions that configure the DSP to provide the desired functionality or the application software may be high level software instructions to be processed by an interpreter or compiler to indirectly configure the DSP .

The DSP may communicate with a wireless network via the analog baseband processing unit . In some embodiments the communication may provide Internet connectivity enabling a user to gain access to content on the Internet and to send and receive e mail or text messages. The input output interface interconnects the DSP and various memories and interfaces. The memory and the removable memory card may provide software and data to configure the operation of the DSP . Among the interfaces may be the USB port and the infrared port . The USB port may enable the mobile device to function as a peripheral device to exchange information with a personal computer or other computer system. The infrared port and other optional ports such as a Bluetooth interface or an IEEE 802.11 compliant wireless interface may enable the mobile device to communicate wirelessly with other nearby handsets and or wireless base stations.

The keypad couples to the DSP via the interface to provide one mechanism for the user to make selections enter information and otherwise provide input to the mobile device . Another input mechanism may be the touch screen LCD which may also display text and or graphics to the user. The touch screen LCD controller couples the DSP to the touch screen LCD . The GPS receiver is coupled to the DSP to decode global positioning system signals thereby enabling the mobile device to determine its position.

It is understood that by programming and or loading executable instructions onto the computer system at least one of the CPU the RAM and the ROM are changed transforming the computer system in part into a particular machine or apparatus having the novel functionality taught by the present disclosure. It is fundamental to the electrical engineering and software engineering arts that functionality that can be implemented by loading executable software into a computer can be converted to a hardware implementation by well known design rules. Decisions between implementing a concept in software versus hardware typically hinge on considerations of stability of the design and numbers of units to be produced rather than any issues involved in translating from the software domain to the hardware domain. Generally a design that is still subject to frequent change may be preferred to be implemented in software because re spinning a hardware implementation is more expensive than re spinning a software design. Generally a design that is stable that will be produced in large volume may be preferred to be implemented in hardware for example in an application specific integrated circuit ASIC because for large production runs the hardware implementation may be less expensive than the software implementation. Often a design may be developed and tested in a software form and later transformed by well known design rules to an equivalent hardware implementation in an application specific integrated circuit that hardwires the instructions of the software. In the same manner as a machine controlled by a new ASIC is a particular machine or apparatus likewise a computer that has been programmed and or loaded with executable instructions may be viewed as a particular machine or apparatus.

The secondary storage is typically comprised of one or more disk drives or tape drives and is used for non volatile storage of data and as an over flow data storage device if RAM is not large enough to hold all working data. Secondary storage may be used to store programs which are loaded into RAM when such programs are selected for execution. The ROM is used to store instructions and perhaps data which are read during program execution. ROM is a non volatile memory device which typically has a small memory capacity relative to the larger memory capacity of secondary storage . The RAM is used to store volatile data and perhaps to store instructions. Access to both ROM and RAM is typically faster than to secondary storage . The secondary storage the RAM and or the ROM may be referred to in some contexts as computer readable storage media and or non transitory computer readable media.

I O devices may include printers video monitors liquid crystal displays LCDs touch screen displays keyboards keypads switches dials mice track balls voice recognizers card readers paper tape readers or other well known input devices.

The network connectivity devices may take the form of modems modem banks Ethernet cards universal serial bus USB interface cards serial interfaces token ring cards fiber distributed data interface FDDI cards wireless local area network WLAN cards radio transceiver cards such as code division multiple access CDMA global system for mobile communications GSM long term evolution LTE worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX and or other air interface protocol radio transceiver cards and other well known network devices. These network connectivity devices may enable the processor to communicate with the Internet or one or more intranets. With such a network connection it is contemplated that the processor might receive information from the network or might output information to the network in the course of performing the above described method steps. Such information which is often represented as a sequence of instructions to be executed using processor may be received from and outputted to the network for example in the form of a computer data signal embodied in a carrier wave.

Such information which may include data or instructions to be executed using processor for example may be received from and outputted to the network for example in the form of a computer data baseband signal or signal embodied in a carrier wave. The baseband signal or signal embedded in the carrier wave or other types of signals currently used or hereafter developed may be generated according to several methods well known to one skilled in the art. The baseband signal and or signal embedded in the carrier wave may be referred to in some contexts as a transitory signal.

The processor executes instructions codes computer programs scripts which it accesses from hard disk floppy disk optical disk these various disk based systems may all be considered secondary storage ROM RAM or the network connectivity devices . While only one processor is shown multiple processors may be present. Thus while instructions may be discussed as executed by a processor the instructions may be executed simultaneously serially or otherwise executed by one or multiple processors. Instructions codes computer programs scripts and or data that may be accessed from the secondary storage for example hard drives floppy disks optical disks and or other device the ROM and or the RAM may be referred to in some contexts as non transitory instructions and or non transitory information.

In an embodiment the computer system may comprise two or more computers in communication with each other that collaborate to perform a task. For example but not by way of limitation an application may be partitioned in such a way as to permit concurrent and or parallel processing of the instructions of the application. Alternatively the data processed by the application may be partitioned in such a way as to permit concurrent and or parallel processing of different portions of a data set by the two or more computers. In an embodiment virtualization software may be employed by the computer system to provide the functionality of a number of servers that is not directly bound to the number of computers in the computer system . For example virtualization software may provide twenty virtual servers on four physical computers. In an embodiment the functionality disclosed above may be provided by executing the application and or applications in a cloud computing environment. Cloud computing may comprise providing computing services via a network connection using dynamically scalable computing resources. Cloud computing may be supported at least in part by virtualization software. A cloud computing environment may be established by an enterprise and or may be hired on an as needed basis from a third party provider. Some cloud computing environments may comprise cloud computing resources owned and operated by the enterprise as well as cloud computing resources hired and or leased from a third party provider.

In an embodiment some or all of the functionality disclosed above may be provided as a computer program product. The computer program product may comprise one or more computer readable storage medium having computer usable program code embodied therein to implement the functionality disclosed above. The computer program product may comprise data structures executable instructions and other computer usable program code. The computer program product may be embodied in removable computer storage media and or non removable computer storage media. The removable computer readable storage medium may comprise without limitation a paper tape a magnetic tape magnetic disk an optical disk a solid state memory chip for example analog magnetic tape compact disk read only memory CD ROM disks floppy disks jump drives digital cards multimedia cards and others. The computer program product may be suitable for loading by the computer system at least portions of the contents of the computer program product to the secondary storage to the ROM to the RAM and or to other non volatile memory and volatile memory of the computer system . The processor may process the executable instructions and or data structures in part by directly accessing the computer program product for example by reading from a CD ROM disk inserted into a disk drive peripheral of the computer system . Alternatively the processor may process the executable instructions and or data structures by remotely accessing the computer program product for example by downloading the executable instructions and or data structures from a remote server through the network connectivity devices . The computer program product may comprise instructions that promote the loading and or copying of data data structures files and or executable instructions to the secondary storage to the ROM to the RAM and or to other non volatile memory and volatile memory of the computer system .

In some contexts the secondary storage the ROM and the RAM may be referred to as a non transitory computer readable medium or a computer readable storage media. A dynamic RAM embodiment of the RAM likewise may be referred to as a non transitory computer readable medium in that while the dynamic RAM receives electrical power and is operated in accordance with its design for example during a period of time during which the computer is turned on and operational the dynamic RAM stores information that is written to it. Similarly the processor may comprise an internal RAM an internal ROM a cache memory and or other internal non transitory storage blocks sections or components that may be referred to in some contexts as non transitory computer readable media or computer readable storage media.

While several embodiments have been provided in the present disclosure it should be understood that the disclosed systems and methods may be embodied in many other specific forms without departing from the spirit or scope of the present disclosure. The present examples are to be considered as illustrative and not restrictive and the intention is not to be limited to the details given herein. For example the various elements or components may be combined or integrated in another system or certain features may be omitted or not implemented.

Also techniques systems subsystems and methods described and illustrated in the various embodiments as discrete or separate may be combined or integrated with other systems modules techniques or methods without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Other items shown or discussed as directly coupled or communicating with each other may be indirectly coupled or communicating through some interface device or intermediate component whether electrically mechanically or otherwise. Other examples of changes substitutions and alterations are ascertainable by one skilled in the art and could be made without departing from the spirit and scope disclosed herein.

