---

title: Systems and methods for blind mode adaptive equalization with multiple algorithms
abstract: Various embodiments described herein are directed to methods and systems for blind mode adaptive equalizer system to recover complex valued data symbols from the signal transmitted over time-varying dispersive diversity wireless channels. For example, various embodiments may utilize an architecture comprised of a bank of estimation units, a normalizing gain estimator, a DSP unit and a feedback shift register providing the equalizer feedback state vector. The estimation unit may be further comprised of a multiplicity of adaptive algorithms providing various filtered estimates of the data symbol to the DSP unit or providing the joint estimate of the transmitted data symbol.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08831082&OS=08831082&RS=08831082
owner: 
number: 08831082
owner_city: Cerritos
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130207
---
Broadband wireless systems are currently in a rapid evolutionary phase in terms of development of various technologies development of various applications deployment of various services and generation of many important standards in the field. The increasing demand on various services justifies the need for the transmission of data on various communication channels at the highest possible data rates. The multipath and fading characteristics of the wireless channels result in various distortions the most important of those being the intersymbol interference ISI especially at relatively high data rates. Adaptive equalizers are employed to mitigate the ISI introduced by the time varying dispersive channels and possibly arising from other sources. In one class of adaptive equalizers a training sequence known to the receiver is transmitted that is used by adaptive equalizer for adjusting the equalizer parameter vector to a value that results in a relatively small residual ISI. After the training sequence the data is transmitted during which period the equalizer continues to adapt to slow channel variations using decision directed method.

Among the various algorithms to adapt the equalizer parameter vector are the recursive least squares RLS algorithm exponentially weighted Kalman filter LMS algorithm and the quantized state QS algorithm the last one taught by Kumar et. al. in Adaptive Equalization Via Fast Quantized State Methods IEEE Transactions on Communications Vol. COM 29 No. 10 October 1981. Kumar at. al. teach orthogonalization process to arrive at fast and computationally efficient identification algorithms in State Inverse and Decorrelated State Stochastic Approximation Automatica Vol. 16 May 1980. The training approach however is not desirable in many communication applications such as those involving video conference type of applications that will require a training sequence every time a different speaker talks. Moreover the need for training sequence results in a significant reduction in capacity as for example in GSM standard a very significant part of each frame is used for the equalizer training sequence. Also if during the decision directed mode the equalizer deviates significantly due to burst of noise or interference all the subsequent data will be erroneously received by the receiver until the loss of equalization is detected and the training sequence is retransmitted and so on.

There are many other applications where the equalizers are applied as in antenna beam forming adaptive antenna focusing of the antenna radio astronomy navigation etc. For example Kumar et. al. teach in Method and Apparatus for Reducing Multipath Signal Error Using Deconvolution U.S. Pat. No. 5 918 161 June 1999 an equalizer approach for a very different problem of precise elimination of the multipath error in the range measurement in GPS receiver. In all of various applications of equalizers and due to various considerations such as the logistics and efficiency of systems it has been of great interest to have the equalizer adapt without the need for a training sequence. Such equalizers are the termed the blind mode equalizers.

Among some of the approaches to blind mode equalization is the Sato s algorithm that is similar to the LMS algorithm except that it does not have any training period. Kumar in Convergence of A Decision Directed Adaptive Equalizer Proceedings of the 22IEEE Conference on Decision and Control 1983 Vol. 22 teaches a technique wherein an intentional noise with relatively high variance is injected into the decision directed adaptive algorithm with the noise variance reduced as the convergence progressed and shows that the domain of convergence of the blind mode equalizer was considerably increased with the increase in the noise variance at the start of the algorithm. The technique taught by Kumar is analogous to the annealing in the steel process industry and in fact the term simulated annealing was coined after the introduction by Kumar. Lambert et. al. teach the estimation of the channel impulse response from the detected data in Forward Inverse Blind Equalization 1995 Conference Record of the 28Asilomar Conference on Signals Systems and Computers Vol. 2 1995.

Another blind mode equalization method applicable to the case where the modulated data symbols have a constant envelope and known as Goddard or constant modulus algorithm CMA is based on minimization of the magnitude square of the estimate of the estimate of the data symbol and a constant that may be selected to be 1. An example of references for the CMA is W. Chung et. al. The local minima of fractionally spaced CMA blind equalizer cost function in the presence of channel noise Proc. IEEE International Conference on Acoustics Speech and Signal Processing pp. 3345 8 12 15 May 1998.

Some of the prior blind mode equalizers have relatively long convergence period and are not universally applicable in terms of the channels to be equalized and in some cases methods such as the one based on polyspectra analysis are computationally very expensive. The CMA method is limited to only constant envelope modulation schemes such as M phase shift keying MPSK and thus are not applicable to modulation schemes such as M quadrature amplitude modulation MQAM and M amplitude shift keying MASK modulation that are extensively used in wireless communication systems due to their desirable characteristics. Tsuie et. al. in Selective Slicing Equalizer Pub. No. US 2008 0260017 A1 Oct. 23 2008 taught a selective slicing equalizer wherein in a decision feedback equalizer configuration the input to the feedback path may be selected either from the combiner output or the output of the slicer depending upon the combiner output. Kumar in Systems and Methods for Adaptive Blind Mode Equalization U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 434 498 Mar. 29 2012 teaches blind mode equalizer with hierarchical architecture.

The prior blind mode equalization techniques are for the case of a single channel that may be the result of combining the signals received over multiple diversity channels before equalization. Such an approach does not take advantage of the differences that may exist among the diversity channels. Some of the algorithms have relatively slow convergence rate and may be limited in terms of their applicability to various modulation formats. It is desirable to have blind mode adaptive equalizers that are efficient for the case of the signal received over dispersive diversity channels possess robustness and some level of inherent redundancy to avoid convergence to any local minima have wide applicability without for example restriction of constant modulus signals are relatively fast in convergence are computationally efficient have modular configuration to provide a tradeoff between complexity and performance. The equalizers of this invention possess these and various other benefits.

Various embodiments described herein are directed to methods and systems for blind mode multiple algorithms adaptive equalizer system BMMAES to recover the in general complex valued data symbols from the signal transmitted over time varying dispersive wireless channels. For example various embodiments may utilize an architecture comprised of a normalizing gain estimator an estimation unit for providing a multiplicity N filtered estimates of the data symbols and a DSP unit for providing a jointly detected data symbol based on the multiplicity N filtered estimates. In the decision feedback configuration the architecture is further comprised of a feedback shift register for providing a feedback state vector comprised of the delayed versions of the jointly detected data symbol to the estimation unit for eliminating the inter symbol interference ISI due to the past symbols.

In the feed forward mode of the equalizer architecture the estimation unit is further comprised of a feed forward shift register for providing a feed forward state vector to a first multiplicity N inner product operators providing the N feed forward signals on the basis of the respective equalizer forward weight vectors for generating the N error signals for updating the multiplicity N adaptive algorithms that provide the N equalizer forward weight vectors.

In the decision feedback mode of the equalizer architecture the estimation unit is further comprised of a second multiplicity N inner product operators providing the N feedback signals on the basis of the respective equalizer feedback weight vectors for modifying the N error signals for updating the multiplicity N adaptive algorithms that provide the N equalizer weight vectors comprised of the respective feed forward and feedback weight vectors.

The normalizing gain estimator is further comprised of a bank of N parameter estimators wherein the iparameter estimator provides the estimate of the parameter for normalizing the filtered estimate on the basis of the ifiltered estimate sof the data symbol and the equalizer forward weight vector from the iadaptive algorithm for i 1 2 . . . N. The parameter estimator is further comprised of an estimator of the power in the filtered estimate and an estimator of the power in the noise component of the filtered estimate for obtaining the estimate of the power of the signal component of the filtered estimate.

The DSP unit is further comprised of a bank of phase alignment subsystem units for providing gain normalization and phase alignment of the N filtered signals a reference phase generator for generating the reference phase a means of further adjusting the phase of the filtered signals a combiner weights generator a weighted combiner for weighted combining of the phase adjusted signals and a decision device for providing the jointly detected data symbol.

The iphase alignment subsystem unit for i 1 2 . . . N is further comprised of a gain normalizer for normalizing the power in the signal component of the filtered estimate to the signal power in the data symbols a phase accumulator unit for providing the phase alignment of the ifiltered estimate a decision device for providing the idetected data symbol based on the ifiltered estimate a phase threshold device for providing the detected phase and a means for estimating the signal to residual inter symbol interference ISI plus noise power ratio for the ifiltered estimate.

The phase threshold device determines the sector in the signal constellation diagram of the data symbol in which the phase aligned filtered estimate lies wherein the sector in the signal constellation diagram may be one of the sectors of rotational symmetry in the constellation diagram. For example the data symbol may be a MQAM modulated signal with the order of modulation M Nfor some integer N and has four sectors of rotational symmetry. In various other embodiments of the invention the sectors may correspond to the four quadrants of the constellation diagram for any signal constellation diagram.

Various embodiments of the blind mode multiple algorithms equalizer system BMMAES to recover the in general complex valued data symbols from the signal transmitted over dispersive diversity wireless channels with order of diversity Nmay utilize an architecture comprised of a normalizing gain estimator a bank of Nestimation units wherein the estimation unit is for receiving the signal over one of the Ndiversity channels and providing Nfiltered estimates on the basis of Nadaptive algorithms a a collator for collating the filtered estimates of the data symbols from the bank of Nestimation units providing the collated N filtered estimates of the data symbols provided by the Nestimation units and a DSP unit for providing the jointly detected data symbol based on the collated N filtered estimates of the data symbols. In the feedback configuration the architecture is further comprised of a feedback shift register for providing a feedback state vector comprised of the delayed versions of the jointly detected data symbol to the Nestimation units for eliminating the inter symbol interference ISI due to the past symbols.

The various adaptive algorithms in the Nestimation units may all be distinct and for example may be selected from the group consisting of the recursive least squares RLS algorithm various quantized state QS algorithms LMS algorithm Sato s algorithm Goddard algorithm neural based algorithm the blind mode algorithm with hierarchical structure or any other more general linear or nonlinear algorithm for obtaining the filtered estimates of the data symbols. In some embodiments several versions of the same algorithm with different algorithm parameters for example the initial estimate of the equalizer weight vector may be used in the estimation units.

The following description is provided to enable any person skilled in the art to make and use the invention and sets forth the best modes contemplated by the inventor of carrying out his invention. Various modifications however will remain readily apparent to those skilled in the art since the generic principles of the present invention have been defined herein specifically to provide systems and methods for blind mode equalization of signals received over time varying dispersive channels and for recovering the data symbols transmitted from a source in blind mode.

The data symbol a k may take values from a set of M possible values for some integer M. For example for the case of the QPSK modulation in digital communication systems a a j a with j square root over 1 and with aand adenoting the real and imaginary components of ataking possible values Aand Afor some constant A 0. For the case of MQAM modulation with the number of points M in the signal constellation equal to Nfor some positive integer N that is normally selected to be an integer power of 2 each of aand amay take possible values from the set of N values given by 1 3 . . . N 1 A. Similarly for the MPSK modulation atakes possible values from the set of M values given by Aexp j 2m 1 M m 1 2 . . . M.

Referring to the complex valued signal z k K is inputted to the estimation unit . The complex valued signal z k K is inputted to the feed forward shift register of length Kproviding the delayed versions z k K 1 . . . z k of the input z k K to the scalar to vector converter that provides the forward state vector x k z k K z k K 1 . . . z k at the output of the scalar to vector converter . Referring to the forward state vector x k is inputted to the N vector inner product operators a b . . . N. Throughout the description of the invention the notations a b . . . N and 1 2 . . . N for any integer are equivalent and both refer to the enumeration between 1 and N. The other inputs of the N vector inner product operators are provided with the N equalizer forward weight vectors w k w k . . . w k . Referring to the N equalizer forward weight vectors a b . . . N are provided by the N adaptive algorithm blocks a b . . . N respectively. Referring to the outputs a b . . . N y k y k . . . y k are inputted to the adders a b . . . N respectively. The other inputs of the adders a b . . . N are provided with the feedback signals y k y k . . . y k respectively.

Referring to the outputs a b . . . N s k s k . . . s k of the adders denoting the N filtered estimates of the discrete time channel input symbol a k are inputted to the DSP unit block . The DSP unit is also inputted with the parameters a b . . . N k k . . . k made available from the normalizer gain estimator . The DSP unit processes the N filtered estimates of the symbol a k and the N parameter estimates and provides the joint estimate k of the symbol at the output of the DSP unit. Referring to the normalizer gain estimator is inputted with the equalizer forward weight vectors a b . . . N provided by the adaptive algorithm blocks a b . . . N.

Referring to the joint estimate k is inputted to the feedback shift register that provides the Kdelayed versions of the joint estimate a k given by k 1 k 2 . . . k K at the output of the feedback shift register. The delayed versions k 1 k 2 . . . k K are inputted to the scalar to vector converter that provides the feedback state vector x k k 1 k 2 . . . k K to the N vector inner product operators a b . . . N. The other inputs of the N vector inner product operators are provided with the N equalizer feedback weight vectors w k w k . . . w k . Referring to FIG. the N equalizer feedback weight vectors a b . . . N are provided by the N adaptive algorithm blocks a b . . . N respectively.

In some embodiments of the invention none of the N equalizer adaptive algorithms may be of the decision feedback type and thus Kis set equal to zero. In such embodiments the feed forward shift register is of length K K providing the delayed versions z k K 1 . . . z k . . . z k K of the input z k K to the scalar to vector converter .

Referring to the outputs a b . . . N y k y k . . . y k are inputted to the adders a b N respectively. The signals a b . . . N y k y k are to compensate for any inter symbol interference contribution due to the past symbols wherein the y k y k . . . y k inputs to the adders compensate for the inter symbol interference contribution due to the future symbols.

Referring to the N filtered estimates of the symbol a k given by s k s k . . . s k at the outputs of the adders are inputted to the adders a b . . . N respectively. The other inputs of the adders a b . . . N are provided with the joint estimate of the symbol k . The adders a b . . . N compare the filtered estimates s k s k . . . s k with the joint estimate of the symbol k providing the error signals e k e k . . . e k to the N adaptive algorithm blocks a b . . . N respectively. The adaptive algorithms adjust their estimates of the equalizer forward and feedback weight vectors so as to adaptively minimize some appropriate measures of the error signals e k e k . . . e k such as the mean squared error wherein different adaptive algorithm may use different such measures. Referring to the N adaptive algorithm blocks a b . . . N are inputted with the feed forward state vector x k and the feedback state vector x k for the adaptation of the equalizer weight vectors.

Referring to the N adaptive algorithms a b . . . N in various embodiments of the invention may be selected from the various linear or nonlinear adaptive algorithms such as the LMS algorithm the recursive least squares RLS algorithm or the quantizes state algorithm with k as the reference input may be one of the blind mode algorithms such as the Sato or the Goddard algorithm or any other linear or nonlinear adaptive algorithm such as the one based on the neural networks. In various embodiments of the invention some of the N adaptive algorithms may be same but with different algorithm parameters and possibly with different initial estimates for the equalizer weight vectors. Use of different adaptive algorithms in obtaining the joint estimate of the symbol a k may result in inheriting distinct advantages of the various adaptive algorithms for example some of the algorithms have faster convergence speed while the others may be more robust against modeling inaccuracies while some may be advantageous in terms of possibility of diverging to some spurious weight vectors.

Taking into account the gain introduced by the parameter k the LMS adaptive algorithm is given by 1 0 1 . . . 2a 1 1 2b In 2a b k is the joint symbol estimate provided by the DSP unit k may be an appropriately selected sufficiently small positive scalar constant to achieve convergence or may be a decreasing positive function of k denotes complex conjugate operation and the equalizer state vector x k and the equalizer weight vector w k of dimension K K K 1 given by 3 In 3 H denotes the Hermitian transpose and in 2 the initial estimate for the vector w k at k 0 may be selected equal to 0 0 . . . 0 1 0 . . . 0 with the only nonzero element in the K 1 position equal to 1 and with 0 selected equal to 1.

In various embodiments of the invention one or more of the adaptive algorithms may be the RLS algorithm given by 1 4a 1 1 1 1 1 2 . . . 4b 1 1 4c 

In various other embodiments of the invention one of the adaptive algorithms may be one of the quantized state algorithms such as the QS1 algorithm given by

In 5b c the matrix P k may be updated directly without requiring the matrix inversion with the application of the matrix inversion lemma to the update in 5b and P k at k 0 may be initialized by a diagonal matrix Ifor some small positive scalar with Idenoting the K K identity matrix. In 5 the vector x k is obtained by replacing both the real and imaginary components of the various elements of the vector x k with their quantized versions. The icomponent of x k is given by 6 . square root over 1 1 2 6 In 6 g x for x real is the threshold function defined in 7 and Re z and Im z denote the real and imaginary components of z for any complex variable z.

In 7 vis some positive threshold value that may be set equal to 0 in which case the function g x reduces to the signum function. The function g x may be modified such that for x 

In various embodiments of the invention one of the adaptive algorithms may be the Sato s algorithm given by 1 0 1 . . . 8a 1 1 8b In 8a is given by 8c and sgn s k in 8a is obtained by replacing both the real and imaginary components of s k with 1 bit quantized versions with square root over 1 9 In 9 Re z and Im z denote the real and imaginary components of z for any complex variable z and sgn x for x real is the signum function defined in 10 .

For the specific case of BPSK modulation wherein a k takes values 1 and 1 with probability 0.5 in 8c is equal to 1 and the Sato s algorithm is same as the LMS algorithm in the decision directed mode.

In the various embodiments of the invention one of the adaptive algorithms may be the Godard s algorithm given by 1 11a 1 1 11b In 11 p is any positive integer wherein for the case of p 2 the algorithm in 11a reduces to 1 12 

In case of Sato s and Goddard s algorithms in 8 12 the correction term in the weight update algorithm depends directly upon the filtered signal s k instead of the error term e k k s k . In such cases the estimation unit in may be modified by feeding back the signal i s k to the adaptive algorithm i.

In some of the various embodiments of the invention one of the adaptive algorithms may be a nonlinear algorithm wherein the estimate of the symbol s k is a nonlinear function of the state vector x k instead of the linear function given in the algorithms described by 4 12 . For example the estimate of the symbol s k may be obtained by neural network based implementation. For example a superfast neural network based algorithm is taught in Superfast and Efficient Channel Equalizer Architecture Based on Neural Network IEEE International Conference on Aerospace Engineering Big Sky Mont. March 2012 pp. 1 11 that is included in its entirety as part of this application. While the neural network based algorithm is very fast in convergence it requires a training sequence. With one of the N algorithms in selected to be the neural network based algorithm with another one for example based on Sato s algorithm an overall very fast convergence may be achieved in the blind mode.

Referring to the iequalizer output i s k is inputted to the power estimator block that provides the estimate of the total power P k in the signal s k at the output . The power estimate block may estimate the power P k according to 13 . 1 1 2 . . . 13a 1 1 13b In 13 with 0

Referring to the iequalizer output noise power Pis subtracted from the total power estimate P k by the adder providing the signal power estimate Pto the input of the divider . The other input of the divider is provided with the average power Pof the symbol aat the discrete time channel output with P E a wherein E denotes the expected value operator. The divider block divides the power Pby the estimate of the signal power Pat the iequalizer output and provides the result P P to the square root block . The square root block provides the estimate of the parameter at the output i. The parameter is used by the DSP unit to scale the signal s k such that the signal power at the output of the iequalizer is close to P E a as would be the case when the equalizer has converged and thus speeds up the convergence of the multi algorithm equalizer of . In some embodiments of the invention the parameter may not be updated after an initial convergence period.

The selection of the decision function depends upon the probability distribution of the data symbols a a j a with j square root over 1 and with aand adenoting the real and imaginary components of a. For example for the case of the discrete type of the probability distribution of the data symbols awith both the real and imaginary components aand aof ataking possible values from the finite sets and respectively and where the components aand aare statistically independent as is the case for example for the MQAM modulated signals the decision function may be given by 14 . 14 In 14 the functions and may be the slicer functions. For the specific case when both the sets and are equal to the set 1 3 . . . N 1 Afor some positive constant Aand some integer N the two slicer functions x and x with x real are identical and are given by 15 . 15 In 15 sgn x is the signum function given by 10 and the function D x is given by 1 22 16 In 16 Vfor i 0 1 . . . N 2 are the threshold levels given by

In 19 Ndenotes the order of symmetry of the signal constellation diagram of the symbol k equal to the number of distinct phase rotations of the signal constellation diagram that leave the signal constellation unchanged and is equal to the number of phase ambiguities that may be introduced by the blind mode equalizer. In 19 j 0 1 . . . Nare the Nthreshold levels of the phase threshold device .

As an example of the threshold values in 19 the signal constellation diagram of the MQAM signal with a square grid constellation with the number of points in the signal constellation M equal to Nfor some integer N has order of symmetry Nequal to 4 with the possible phase ambiguities equal to 0 2 3 2 as the rotation of the signal constellation diagram by any of the four values 0 2 3 2 leaves the signal constellation unchanged. The threshold levels for the MQAM signal are given by 0 2 3 2. The range of the phase given by k 

For the case of MPSK signal wherein atakes possible values Aexp j m 0.5 2 M j m 0 1 . . . M 1 for some integer M that is normally taken equal to an integer power of 2. For the case of MPSK modulation order of symmetry Nequal to M with the possible phase ambiguities equal to 0 2 M 4 M . . . 2 M 1 M resulting in M sectors with the msector defined in terms of the phase by the interval 2 m M 

As the different adaptive algorithms may converge with any of the S possible phase ambiguities to achieve coherence among the N different algorithms and thereby speed up the convergence the phase of the filtered signals s k . . . s k are aligned to a common phase reference. The phase alignment may be achieved by first determining a reference k among the N phase outputs k i 0 N and then aligning all the phase of s k i 0 1 . . . N by adjusting the phase of s k by the difference k k k . The phase reference k for example may be selected on the basis of the estimate of the signal to interference plus noise power ratio in the detected signal k .

Referring to the gain normalized and phase aligned signal sis inputted to the power estimator that provides the estimate of the total power Ppresent in the signal sto the input of the divider . The power Pmay be estimated according to 13 with sreplaced by s. Referring to the signals sand the detected symbol k are inputted to the adder that provides the difference equal to k s k k to the power estimator .

After the convergence of the iequalizer the detected symbol k is equal to the correct symbol with a possible phase ambiguity and is the equalization error k comprised of the residual noise and intersymbol interference. Referring to the equalization error k is inputted to the power estimator that provides the estimate of the residual noise and intersymbol interference power Pto the divider . Referring to the power estimate Pis inputted to the adder . The adder provides the estimate of the signal power P P P to the divider . Referring to the divider divides the estimate of the signal power Pby the estimate of the residual noise and inter symbol interference power Pproviding the signal to residual noise plus interference power ratio k P P at the output of the divider .

Referring to the N phase outputs k k . . . k at the outputs of the phase alignment subsystems 1 . . . N are inputted to the reference phase generator . The reference phase generator partitions the phase outputs k k . . . k into a number of Nsets such that the phase of all the terms in any one of the partitions are equal and equal to one of the reference phase. For example for the case of MQAM signal with square grid constellation S is equal to 4 and the reference phase are equal to 4 3 4 5 4 and 7 4. Referring to the set Sof the indices of the terms in the partition with the maximum number of phase terms wherein the indices take values in the range of 1 to N and the number of terms min Sis inputted to the combiner weights generator block . For the case wherein more than one partitions have the number of terms equal to the maximum value m the partition containing the term with the highest SNR is selected to break the tie. Referring to the SNR is made available to the reference phase generator by the phase alignment subsystem for i equal to a through N not shown in the Figure. Referring to the reference phase is set equal to the value of the phase k i 1 2 . . . N in the partition thus selected.

Referring to the reference phase k generated by the reference phase generator is inputted to the adders a b . . . N. Referring to the phase k at the output i of the phase alignment subsystem i is inputted to the adder i for i equal to a through N. The adder i subtracts the phase k from the reference phase and feeds back the difference i k to the input of the phase alignment subsystem i.

Referring to the difference phase i k is accumulated by the accumulator comprised of the adder and the delay providing the accumulated phase k . The delayed version k 1 of the phase k is inputted to the complex exponential operation block . Referring to the output of the complex exponential operation block given by exp j k 1 j square root over 1 is inputted to the multiplier that introduces a phase rotation of k 1 in the phase of the other input s k of the multiplier . Referring to the phase aligned signal sis made available to the decision device .

Referring to the difference phase i the difference phase i k is inputted to the exponential function block i that provides the output exp j k j square root over 1 to the multiplier i for i equal to 1 through N. Referring to the other input of the multiplier i is connected to the gain normalized and phase aligned signal soutput i made available by the phase alignment subsystem i. Referring to the multiplier i adjusts the phase of the signal sby the difference phase i k and provides the phase adjusted signal sat the output i to the input of the multiplier i for i equal to 1 through N.

Referring to the outputs of the multipliers i i 1 2 . . . N are inputted to the adder . The adder provides the weighted sum s k of the phase adjusted signals s . . . Sat the output . The multipliers i i 1 2 . . . N and the adder constitute the weighted combiner for the phase adjusted signals s k .

Referring to the SNR is made available to the combiner weight generator by the phase alignment subsystem for i equal to a through N. On the basis of the SNRs equal to a through N and the set Sand the number of elements min the set Smade available by the reference phase generator the combiner weight generator generates the weights . . . that may be in general complex valued. The complex conjugates of the combiner weights . . . are made available to the multipliers i i 1 2 . . . N by the combiner weight generator .

In various embodiments of the invention the combiner weights may be based on the maximal ratio combining technique wherein the combiner weights are given by 20 .

In various embodiments of the invention all of the weights may be set equal to 1 N corresponding to the equal gain diversity combining technique. In yet other embodiments of the invention the weight corresponding to the highest SNR may be set equal to 1 with all of the other N 1 weights set equal to 0 corresponding to the switched diversity combining technique.

In some of the embodiments of the invention nonzero weights may be assigned only to the signals with their indices in the set Swith the signals with their indices not in the set Sassigned zero weights. The weights with their indices within the set Smay be given by 21 .

In alternative embodiments of the invention all of the weights with their indices in the set Smay be set equal to 1 mwherein mis the number of indices in the set S with the weights with their indices not in the set Sassigned the value 0. In yet other embodiments of the invention the weight with its index in the set Scorresponding to the highest SNR may be set equal to 1 with all of the N 1 weights set equal to 0.

In various other embodiments of the invention the combiner weights may be based on one of the adaptive algorithm selected from the set of RLS LMS QS Sato s and Goddard s algorithms. For example using the Sato s algorithm the combiner weight vector . . . may be updated by 22 . 1 22a . . . 0 1 . . . 22b 22c 

In 22a k may be an appropriately selected sufficiently small positive scalar constant to achieve convergence or may be a decreasing positive function of k.

In various embodiments of the invention the data symbols a k are transmitted over Ndiversity channels with impulse responses h k i 1 2 . . . Nand the receiver jointly detects the data symbol a k on the basis of the Nsignals received over the Ndiversity channels. The impulse responses may be slowly varying functions of time to which the receiver adapts. In addition to the wireless communication such situations arise in many other fields for example in Radar systems.

Referring to the estimation unit i generates the filtered signals i 1 2 . . . N s s . . . swherein Nis the number of adaptive algorithms in the estimation unit i. In some embodiments of the invention the number of adaptive algorithms in the various estimation units may be different. Referring to the N NNfiltered signals s s . . . s . . . s s . . . sare inputted to the collator that collates the N filtered signals and makes the collated filtered signals a though N s k . . . s k available to the normalizing gain estimator block .

Referring to the estimation unit i makes available the Nequalizer feed forward weight vectors w w wfor i 1 2 . . . Nto the collator . The collator collates the N equalizer feed forward weight vectors and provides the collated equalizer feed forward weight vectors a through N w k . . . w k to the normalizing gain estimator block . shows the block diagram of the normalizing gain estimator that provides the N parameter estimates . . . to the DSP unit .

Referring to the collated filtered signals a though N s k . . . s k are made available to the DSP unit. On the basis of the N filtered signals s k . . . s k the DSP unit makes a joint estimate of the data symbol k . Referring to the joint estimate of the data symbol k is fed back to the bank of the estimation units for providing the error signals for the update of the N adaptive algorithms.

Referring to the joint estimate of the data symbol k is inputted to the feedback shift register of length Kfor some integer K. The feedback shift register makes available the Kdelayed versions k 1 . . . k K of the joint estimate of the data symbol k to the scalar to vector converter . The scalar to vector converter provides the equalizer feedback state vector x k k 1 k 2 . . . k K to the bank of the estimation units for cancelling the inter symbol interference due to the past Ksymbols. In various alternative embodiments of the invention none of the N equalizer adaptive algorithms may be of the decision feedback type and thus Kis zero.

In various embodiments of the invention the number and type of the adaptive algorithms in the various estimation units may be different or use the same algorithm type but with different algorithm parameters such as the initial values of the equalizer weight vectors. In one example of the various embodiments the number of diversity channels Nmay be 3 with Nequal to 1 for all three estimation units . The three estimation units in the example case may use the Goddard s algorithm the Sato s algorithm and the RLS algorithm respectively.

Various modifications and other embodiments of the invention applicable to various problems in Engineering and other fields will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art in the field of invention. The multiple algorithm architectures of the invention can be readily modified and applied to various fields where such an architecture is applicable. Examples of such fields in addition to various communication systems include Radars sonar digital audio systems seismology astronomy and so on.

It is to be understood that the figures and descriptions of the present invention have been simplified to illustrate elements that are relevant for a clear understanding of the present invention while eliminating other elements for purposes of clarity. Those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that these and other elements may be desirable. However because such elements are well known in the art and because they do not facilitate a better understanding of the present invention a discussion of such elements is not provided herein.

In general it will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art that at least some of the embodiments described herein including for example all of the modules of may be implemented in many different embodiments of software firmware and or hardware for example based on Field Programmable Gate Array FPGA chips or implemented in Application Specific Integrated Circuits ASICS . The software and firmware code may be executed by a computer or computing device comprising a processor e.g. a DSP or any other similar processing circuit including for example the computing device described below. The processor may be in communication with memory or another computer readable medium comprising the software code. The software code or specialized control hardware that may be used to implement embodiments is not limiting. For example embodiments described herein may be implemented in computer software using any suitable computer software language type using for example conventional or object oriented techniques. Such software may be stored on any type of suitable computer readable medium or media such as for example a magnetic or optical storage medium. According to various embodiments the software may be firmware stored at an EEPROM and or other non volatile memory associated a DSP or other similar processing circuit. The operation and behavior of the embodiments may be described without specific reference to specific software code or specialized hardware components. The absence of such specific references is feasible because it is clearly understood that artisans of ordinary skill would be able to design software and control hardware to implement the embodiments based on the present description with no more than reasonable effort and without undue experimentation.

In the example of the computing device comprises one or more processor circuits or processing units one or more memory circuits and or storage circuit component s and one or more input output I O circuit devices . Additionally the computing device comprises a bus that allows the various circuit components and devices to communicate with one another. The bus represents one or more of any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus an accelerated graphics port and a processor or local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. The bus may comprise wired and or wireless buses.

The processing unit may be responsible for executing various software programs such as system programs applications programs and or program modules blocks to provide computing and processing operations for the computing device . The processing unit may be responsible for performing various voice and data communications operations for the computing device such as transmitting and receiving voice and data information over one or more wired or wireless communications channels. Although the processing unit of the computing device is shown in the context of a single processor architecture it may be appreciated that the computing device may use any suitable processor architecture and or any suitable number of processors in accordance with the described embodiments. In one embodiment the processing unit may be implemented using a single integrated processor.

The processing unit may be implemented as a host central processing unit CPU using any suitable processor circuit or logic device circuit such as a as a general purpose processor. The processing unit also may be implemented as a chip multiprocessor CMP dedicated processor embedded processor media processor input output I O processor co processor microprocessor controller microcontroller application specific integrated circuit ASIC field programmable gate array FPGA programmable logic device PLD or other processing device in accordance with the described embodiments.

As shown the processing unit may be coupled to the memory and or storage component s through the bus . The bus may comprise any suitable interface and or bus architecture for allowing the processing unit to access the memory and or storage component s . Although the memory and or storage component s may be shown as being separate from the processing unit for purposes of illustration it is worthy to note that in various embodiments some portion or the entire memory and or storage component s may be included on the same integrated circuit as the processing unit . Alternatively some portion or the entire memory and or storage component s may be disposed on an integrated circuit or other medium e.g. hard disk drive external to the integrated circuit of the processing unit . In various embodiments the computing device may comprise an expansion slot to support a multimedia and or memory card for example.

The memory and or storage component s represent one or more computer readable media. The memory and or storage component s may be implemented using any computer readable media capable of storing data such as volatile or non volatile memory removable or non removable memory erasable or non erasable memory writeable or re writeable memory and so forth. The memory and or storage component s may comprise volatile media e.g. random access memory RAM and or nonvolatile media e.g. read only memory ROM Flash memory optical disks magnetic disks and the like . The memory and or storage component s may comprise fixed media e.g. RAM ROM a fixed hard drive etc. as well as removable media e.g. a Flash memory drive a removable hard drive an optical disk . Examples of computer readable storage media may include without limitation RAM dynamic RAM DRAM Double Data Rate DRAM DDRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM static RAM SRAM read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM flash memory e.g. NOR or NAND flash memory content addressable memory CAM polymer memory e.g. ferroelectric polymer memory phase change memory ovonic memory ferroelectric memory silicon oxide nitride oxide silicon SONOS memory magnetic or optical cards or any other type of media suitable for storing information.

The one or more I O devices allow a user to enter commands and information to the computing device and also allow information to be presented to the user and or other components or devices. Examples of input devices include data ports analog to digital converters ADCs digital to analog converters DACs a keyboard a cursor control device e.g. a mouse a microphone a scanner and the like. Examples of output devices include data ports ADC s DAC s a display device e.g. a monitor or projector speakers a printer a network card . The computing device may comprise an alphanumeric keypad coupled to the processing unit . The keypad may comprise for example a QWERTY key layout and an integrated number dial pad. The computing device may comprise a display coupled to the processing unit . The display may comprise any suitable visual interface for displaying content to a user of the computing device . In one embodiment for example the display may be implemented by a liquid crystal display LCD such as a touch sensitive color e.g. 76 bit color thin film transistor TFT LCD screen. The touch sensitive LCD may be used with a stylus and or a handwriting recognizer program.

The processing unit may be arranged to provide processing or computing resources to the computing device . For example the processing unit may be responsible for executing various software programs including system programs such as operating system OS and application programs. System programs generally may assist in the running of the computing device and may be directly responsible for controlling integrating and managing the individual hardware components of the computer system. The OS may be implemented for example as a Microsoft Windows OS Symbian OS Embedix OS Linux OS Binary Run time Environment for Wireless BREW OS JavaOS or other suitable OS in accordance with the described embodiments. The computing device may comprise other system programs such as device drivers programming tools utility programs software libraries application programming interfaces APIs and so forth.

In various embodiments disclosed herein a single component may be replaced by multiple components and multiple components may be replaced by a single component to perform a given function or functions. Except where such substitution would not be operative such substitution is within the intended scope of the embodiments.

While various embodiments have been described herein it should be apparent that various modifications alterations and adaptations to those embodiments may occur to persons skilled in the art with attainment of at least some of the advantages. The disclosed embodiments are therefore intended to include all such modifications alterations and adaptations without departing from the scope of the embodiments as set forth herein.

Embodiments may be provided as a computer program product including a non transitory machine readable storage medium having stored thereon instructions in compressed or uncompressed form that may be used to program a computer or other electronic device to perform processes or methods described herein. The machine readable storage medium may include but is not limited to hard drives floppy diskettes optical disks CD ROMs DVDs read only memories ROMs random access memories RAMs EPROMs EEPROMs flash memory magnetic or optical cards solid state memory devices or other types of media machine readable medium suitable for storing electronic instructions. Further embodiments may also be provided as a computer program product including a transitory machine readable signal in compressed or uncompressed form . Examples of machine readable signals whether modulated using a carrier or not include but are not limited to signals that a computer system or machine hosting or running a computer program can be configured to access including signals downloaded through the Internet or other networks. For example the distribution of software may be an Internet download.

