---

title: Navigation of a list of content sharing platform media items on a client device via gesture controls and contextual synchronization
abstract: A method navigation of a list of content sharing platform media items on a client device via gesture controls and contextual synchronization is disclosed. The method includes providing, by an electronic device, a playlist for playback in a portion of a user interface (UI) of an application executed on the electronic device, wherein the playlist comprises a collection of media items streamed to the application on the electronic device. The method further include receiving an indication of a gesture made by a user of the electronic device with respect to the portion of the UI associated with the playback of the playlist and navigating media items of the playlist based on the received indication. The method also includes updating a viewing state associated with the playlist based on the navigating, the viewing state maintained for the user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09588647&OS=09588647&RS=09588647
owner: Google Inc.
number: 09588647
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130717
---
This disclosure relates to the field of content sharing platforms and in particular to navigation of a list of content sharing platform media items on a client device via gesture controls and contextual synchronization.

On the Internet social networks allow users to connect to and share information with each other. Many social networks include a content sharing aspect that allows users to upload view and share content such as video content image content audio content and so on. Other users of the social network may comment on the shared content discover new content locate updates share content and otherwise interact with the provided content. The shared content may include content from professional content creators e.g. movie clips TV clips and music videos as well as content from amateur content creators e.g. video blogging and short original videos.

Currently users are spending increased amounts of time on content sharing platforms. Similar to a television or radio experience users typically prefer to watch or listen to content without interruptions or having to decide what to watch next. Some content sharing platforms allow users to create playlists that allow the user to create a list of favorite media items to automatically play without interruption.

Video and other media consumption on content sharing platforms is rapidly moving to mobile devices. However navigating playlists on mobile devices is difficult because the user interface is stripped down to the bare essentials so that the UI can fit on a smaller screen. This can result in an unsatisfactory user experience causing users to reduce their interactions with the mobile platform provided by the content sharing platform.

The following is a simplified summary of the disclosure in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects of the disclosure. This summary is not an extensive overview of the disclosure. It is intended to neither identify key or critical elements of the disclosure nor delineate any scope of the particular implementations of the disclosure or any scope of the claims. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts of the disclosure in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

In one implementation a method for navigation of a list of content sharing platform media items on a client device via gesture controls and contextual synchronization is disclosed. The method includes providing by an electronic device a playlist for playback in a portion of a user interface UI of an application executed on the electronic device wherein the playlist comprises a collection of media items streamed to the application on the electronic device. The method further include receiving an indication of a gesture made by a user of the electronic device with respect to the portion of the UI associated with the playback of the playlist and navigating media items of the playlist based on the received indication. The method also includes updating a viewing state associated with the playlist based on the navigating the viewing state maintained for the user.

In one implementation the method further comprises receiving a request for the playlist from the user the request sent via a mobile application of a content sharing platform executing on the electronic device. In addition the another portion of the UI displays a list of the media items in the playlist. Furthermore the gestures of the user received in the another portion of the UI may provide a different navigation result than the gestures made by the user in the portion of the UI associated with the playback of the playlist. The viewing state associated with the playlist may comprise a most recent location within the playlist that the user has viewed and is used by a content sharing platform to return the user to the most recent location when the user accesses the playlist on a device that is different than the electronic device.

In some implementations when the gesture is a swipe left gesture the navigating the media items comprises one of proceeding to a next media item in the playlist fast forwarding a current media item in the playback or skipping a promotion in the playback. Furthermore in other implementations when the gesture is a swipe right gesture the navigating the media items comprises one of proceeding to a prior media item in the playlist or rewinding a current media item in the playback. In addition when the gesture is a swipe up gesture the navigating the media items may comprise one of liking a current media item in the playback increasing a volume of the playback increasing a playback speed of the playback or maximizing the portion of the UI within the display of the application on the electronic device.

In addition when the gesture is a swipe down gesture the navigating the media items comprises one of disliking a current media item in the playback decreasing a volume of the playback decreasing a playback speed of the playback or minimizing the portion of the UI within the display of the application on the electronic device. In one implementation when the gesture is a swipe in a circle gesture the navigating the media items comprises one of returning to a beginning of a current media item in the playback returning to a first media item in the playlist for the playback or replaying a section of the current media item in the playback.

In another implementation when the gesture is a hover gesture the navigating the media items comprises one of showing a list of thumbnails and links to each media item in the playlist or showing other hidden controls for the playlist. Additionally when the gesture is a shaking gesture the navigating the media items comprises proceeding to a media item that is randomly selected from the playlist.

In additional implementations computing devices for performing the operations of the above described implementations are also disclosed. Additionally in implementations of the disclosure a computer readable storage media stores methods for performing the operations of the above described implementations.

Implementations are described for navigation of a list of content sharing platform media items on a client device via gesture controls and contextual synchronization. In implementations of the disclosure a list of media items e.g. a playlist generated by a content sharing platform may be navigated via gesture controls that are relative to a media item player portion of a user interface UI for the playlist provided by a client device. Regardless of a location of the media item player within the UI user gesture controls detected with respect to the media item player portion of the UI result in navigation actions within the playlist. Gestures made by the user outside of the media item player portion of the UI e.g. in another portion of the UI than the media item player may result in a different behavior and or different navigational result than that same gesture made inside the media item player portion of the UI.

In some implementations a viewing state of the playlist while the user is viewing the playlist may also be observed and maintained by the content sharing platform. This viewing state may be utilized to provide contextual synchronization of the playlist at the client device. The viewing state may represent a location in the playlist that the user is watching and may be represented as a combination of a playlist identifier ID a media item ID and an index of the media item within the playlist in case there are multiple occurrences of the same media item in a playlist . When the user is watching a playlist the viewing state of the playlist may be periodically updated to reflect where the user is in the viewing experience. When the user opens the playlist on a different device e.g. the client device the playlist can resume where the user last left off.

Implementations of the disclosure have a different layer of granularity than previous solutions for navigating video playlists. Previously content sharing platforms providing mobile video platforms have not implemented playlists for video content except for long form episodic shows e.g. media items with a large amount of content such as television episodes lasting approximately 20 minutes or more . In the cases of long form video content gesture controls are not implemented for moving between video content because users typically skip inside the video more frequently than to jumping from video to video. In addition navigating video playlists on mobile devices is difficult because the UI is generally stripped down to a minimum so that the UI can fit on a smaller screen. By implementing methods for using gestures to control video playlists the user experience can be improved and thereby cause users to interact more frequently with the content sharing platform.

The client devices A through Z may each include computing devices such as personal computers PCs laptops mobile phones smart phones tablet computers netbook computers etc. In some implementations client device A through Z may also be referred to as user devices. Each client device includes a media viewer . In one implementation the media viewers may be applications that allow users to view content such as images videos web pages documents etc. For example the media viewer may be a web browser that can access retrieve present and or navigate content e.g. web pages such as Hyper Text Markup Language HTML pages digital media items etc. served by a web server. The media viewer may render display and or present the content e.g. a web page a media viewer to a user. The media viewer may also display an embedded media player e.g. a Flash player or an HTML5 player that is embedded in a web page e.g. a web page that may provide information about a product sold by an online merchant . In another example the media viewer may be a standalone application that allows users to view digital media items e.g. digital videos digital images electronic books etc. .

The media viewers may be provided to the client devices A through Z by the server and or content sharing platform . For example the media viewers may be embedded media players that are embedded in web pages provided by the content sharing platform . In another example the media viewers may be applications that are downloaded from the server .

In general functions described in one implementation as being performed by the content sharing platform can also be performed on the client devices A through Z in other implementations if appropriate. In addition the functionality attributed to a particular component can be performed by different or multiple components operating together. The content sharing platform can also be accessed as a service provided to other systems or devices through appropriate application programming interfaces and thus is not limited to use in websites.

In one implementation the content sharing platform may be one or more computing devices such as a rackmount server a router computer a server computer a personal computer a mainframe computer a laptop computer a tablet computer a desktop computer etc. data stores e.g. hard disks memories databases networks software components and or hardware components that may be used to provide a user with access to media items and or provide the media items to the user. For example the content sharing platform may allow a user to consumer upload search for approve of like dislike and or comment on media items. The content sharing platform may also include a website e.g. a webpage that may be used to provide a user with access to the media items.

The content sharing platform may include multiple channels e.g. channels A through Z . A channel can be data content available from a common source or data content having a common topic or theme. The data content can be digital content chosen by a user digital content made available by a user digital content uploaded by a user digital content chosen by a content provider digital content chosen by a broadcaster etc. For example a channel X can include videos Y and Z. A channel can be associated with an owner who is a user that can perform actions on the channel. Different activities can be associated with the channel based on the owner s actions such as the owner making digital content available on the channel the owner selecting e.g. liking digital content associated with another channel the owner commenting on digital content associated with another channel etc. The activities associated with the channel can be collected into an activity feed for the channel. Users other than the owner of the channel can subscribe to one or more channels in which they are interested. Once a user subscribes to a channel the user can be presented with information from the channel s activity feed. If a user subscribes to multiple channels the activity feed for each channel to which the user is subscribed can be combined into a syndicated activity feed. Information from the syndicated activity feed can be presented to the user.

Each channel may include one or more media items . Examples of a media item can include and are not limited to digital video digital movies digital photos digital music website content social media updates electronic books ebooks electronic magazines digital newspapers digital audio books electronic journals web blogs real simple syndication RSS feeds electronic comic books software applications etc. In some implementations media item is also referred to as a media item.

A media item may be consumed via the Internet and or via a mobile device application. For brevity and simplicity an online video also hereinafter referred to as a video is used as an example of a media item throughout this document. As used herein media media item online media item digital media digital media item content and content item can include an electronic file that can be executed or loaded using software firmware or hardware configured to present the digital media item to an entity. In one implementation the content sharing platform may store the media items using the data store .

In one implementation the server may be one or more computing devices e.g. a rackmount server a server computer etc. . In one implementation the server may be included in the content sharing platform . The server may include a playlist component . In one implementation the playlist component provides navigation of a list of content sharing platform media items on a client device A Z via gesture controls and contextual synchronization. In other implementations the media viewer provided by content sharing platform for viewing of media items streamed by content sharing platform operates together with the playlist engine to provide navigation of a list of content sharing platform media on a user device via gesture controls and contextual synchronization. The list of content sharing platform media items may be referred to herein as a playlist . A playlist may include a list of media items that can be played e.g. streamed in sequential or shuffled order on the content sharing platform. Further description of the playlist component the media viewer and their specific functions are described in more detail below with respect to .

Although implementations of the disclosure are discussed in terms of content sharing platforms and navigation of playlists of the content sharing platform implementations may also be generally applied to any type of social network providing connections between users. Implementations of the disclosure are not limited to content sharing platforms that provide channel subscriptions to users.

In situations in which the systems discussed here collect personal information about users or may make use of personal information the users may be provided with an opportunity to control whether the content sharing platform collects user information e.g. information about a user s social network social actions or activities profession a user s preferences or a user s current location or to control whether and or how to receive content from the content server that may be more relevant to the user. In addition certain data may be treated in one or more ways before it is stored or used so that personally identifiable information is removed. For example a user s identity may be treated so that no personally identifiable information can be determined for the user or a user s geographic location may be generalized where location information is obtained such as to a city ZIP code or state level so that a particular location of a user cannot be determined. Thus the user may have control over how information is collected about the user and used by the content sharing platform .

The media viewer may be part of a client device such as client device Z of . Media viewer may include a client side UI generation module a touchscreen application programming interface API client side playlist navigation module and a client side playlist status module . More or less components may be included in the media viewer without loss of generality. For example two of the modules may be combined into a single module or one of the modules may be divided into two or more modules.

The playlist component and the media viewer are communicatively coupled to each other and to the data store . For example the playlist component and the media viewer may be coupled to each other and the data store via a network e.g. via network as illustrated in . In another example the playlist component may be coupled directly to a server where the playlist component resides e.g. may be directly coupled to server . The data store may be a memory e.g. random access memory a cache a drive e.g. a hard drive a flash drive a database system or another type of component or device capable of storing data. The data store may also include multiple storage components e.g. multiple drives or multiple databases that may also span multiple computing devices e.g. multiple server computers . The data store includes media item data user data playlist data and playlist status data .

As discussed above the playlist component provides navigation of a list of content sharing platform media items on a client device via gesture controls and contextual synchronization. In one implementation playlist generation module accesses media item data and user data to generate a playlist of media items for consumption by users of the content sharing platform . The generated playlist and or metadata associated with the generated playlist may be stored in playlist data of data store .

UI generation module may populate the playlist data for presentation in a UI generated for the playlist. In one implementation the client side UI generation module receives playlist UI data from the UI generation module for use in generating the UI for display at the client device. The UI for a playlist may be presented in a variety of formats depending on a type of client device and or the actions of the user on the client device. In one implementation the UI for a playlist includes a media item player and an information window. The media item player displays playback of a current selected media item of the playlist. The information window may display information regarding the current selected media item shown in the media item player and or a list of the media items in the playlist for example.

In some implementations the media item player may remain visible at least in a small portion of the UI while the user navigates to other menus of the media viewer separate from the playlist. In addition the media item player may change positions within the UI dependent on the user s actions. For example if the user leaves a playlist menu to search for additional media items or other content of the content sharing platform the media item player may be minimized to a smaller player viewable at a bottom portion of the UI or as a floating window of the UI that remains visible while the user is performing his or her search and reviewing results of the search. The media item player may move around the UI depending on the actions taken by the user and the menus viewed. In other implementations the media item player may be maximized to consume the entire viewable space of the UI.

In implementations of the disclosure the playlist may be navigated via gesture controls that are relative to the media item player portion of the UI. Regardless of a location of the media item player within the UI any gesture controls detected with respect to the media item player portion of the UI may operate to navigate the playlist. Gestures made by the user outside of the media item player e.g. in another portion of the UI than the media item player window may result in a different behavior of the media viewer and or different navigational results than those same gestures made inside the media item player portion of the UI.

In one implementation the client device may provide a touchscreen API to the media viewer to enable gesture control recognition by the media viewer . The touchscreen API may translate gestures made on a touchscreen of the client device into data signals that are understandable to the media viewer . A client side playlist navigation module may receive information regarding a received gesture from the touchscreen API and determine whether the gesture was made in relation to a portion of the UI associated with the media item player for the playlist. If so the client side navigation module may navigate the playlist according to the received gesture.

Table 1 below provides examples of possible gestures and navigation actions resulting from the associated gestures for navigating a playlist. Implementations of the disclosure are not limited to the examples provide in Table 1 and may include additional gestures and or resulting navigational controls.

In one implementation once the user gesture is recognized in relation to the media item player for the playlist and the resulting navigational action is determined the client side playlist navigation module may communicate with the playlist navigation module of the playlist component on the server side of the content sharing platform to cause the navigation of the playlist to occur. For example if a user swipes left on the media item player of a playlist and the resulting navigational action is to skip to the next media item in the playlist the client side playlist navigation module may determine the next item in the playlist e.g. based on metadata of the playlist previously sent to the media viewer and request this next item from the content sharing platform via the playlist navigation module . In some implementations beginning portions of each media item in a playlist may be pre cached at the client device. When the media item is selected or navigated to the pre cached data may be used to initially begin playback of the media item while a request to stream the media item is processed by the media viewer and playlist component .

In other implementations the information regarding a received gesture from the touchscreen API may be provided directly to the playlist navigation module of the playlist component in order to allow the playlist navigation module to decipher the gesture determine the resulting playlist navigation action and cause the navigation to occur at the media item player.

In some implementations a viewing state of the playlist while viewing the playlist may be observed and maintained by the content sharing platform. This viewing state may be utilized to provide contextual synchronization of a playlist at the client device. The viewing state may represent where in the playlist he or she is watching and may be represented as a combination of the playlist identifier ID the media item ID and the index of the media item within the playlist in case there are multiple occurrences of the same media item in a playlist . A location within the media item may also be stored as part of the viewing state of the playlist. In some implementations the viewing state is stored in playlist status data of data store and may be keyed by a user ID playlist ID pair.

When the user is watching a playlist the playlist status module or the client side playlist status module depending on where the user is watching the playlist may periodically update the viewing state of the playlist to reflect where the user is in the viewing experience. When the user opens the playlist on a different device e.g. the client device the playlist can resume where the user last left off. For example when loading a playlist at the media viewer the client side playlist status module may request a user status for the playlist from the playlist status data using a user ID playlist ID pair for a query to the data store . In other implementations the playlist status module may perform this viewing state check when the playlist is requested from the media viewer and prior to sending playlist data back to the media viewer.

In one implementation a Send to My Device feature may be enabled that allows a user to send a playlist and the viewing state associated with the playlist as part of a payload to an indicated client device. The client device may then play the media item in the playlist as indicated by the received viewing state in the payload.

In some implementations the navigation of a list of content sharing platform media items on a client device via gesture controls and contextual synchronization described above is performed in the context of a video playlist streaming to a mobile device that is executing a content sharing platform application specifically designed for playback of the video playlist.

For simplicity of explanation the methods of this disclosure are depicted and described as a series of acts. However acts in accordance with this disclosure can occur in various orders and or concurrently and with other acts not presented and described herein. Furthermore not all illustrated acts may be required to implement the methods in accordance with the disclosed subject matter. In addition those skilled in the art will understand and appreciate that the methods could alternatively be represented as a series of interrelated states via a state diagram or events. Additionally it should be appreciated that the methods disclosed in this specification are capable of being stored on an article of manufacture to facilitate transporting and transferring such methods to computing devices. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device or storage media. In one implementation method may be performed by playlist component as shown in .

Referring to at block method begins at block when a playlist is provided for playback in a portion of a UI of an application executed by an electronic device. In one implementation the playlist includes a list of media items provided by a content sharing platform for playback on the electronic device. Then at block an indication of a gesture made by a user of the application on the electronic device is received. The gesture is made in relation to the portion of the UI associated with the playback of the playlist. In one implementation a touchscreen API is provided to the application to enable the application to detect and identify gestures made by a user on the touchscreen of the electronic device.

At block a navigation action is determined that is associated with the gesture defined by the received indication. In one implementation an association of playlist media player window gestures to navigation actions may be maintained by the content sharing platform. For example Table 1 discussed above details various user gestures and resulting navigation actions. Subsequently ay block the playlist is navigated according to the determined navigation action. Lastly at block a viewing state associated with the playlist is updated based on the navigating. In one implementation the viewing state is maintained by the content sharing platform.

Referring to at block method begins at block when a data of a playlist is received for use in for playback of the playlist by an application associated with a content sharing platform providing the media items of the playlist. At block a UI is generated at the media viewer for the playlist. A portion of the UI is dedicated to a media item player to playback the playlist. Then at block an indication of a gesture made by a user of the application on the electronic device is received. The gesture is made in relation to the portion of the UI associated with the playback of the playlist. In one implementation a touchscreen API is provided to the application to enable the application to detect and identify gestures made by a user on the touchscreen of the electronic device.

At block a navigation action is determined that is associated with the gesture defined by the received indication. In one implementation an association of playlist media player window gestures to navigation actions may be maintained by the content sharing platform. For example Table 1 discussed above details various user gestures and resulting navigation actions. Subsequently ay block additional data is requested from the content sharing platform in order to navigate the playlist according to the determined navigation action. For example if the navigation action is to skip to the next media item in the playlist the media viewer may request streaming of the next media item from the content sharing platform. Lastly at block a viewing state associated with the playlist is updated based on the navigating. In one implementation the viewing state is maintained by the content sharing platform.

The exemplary computer system includes a processing device processor a main memory e.g. read only memory ROM flash memory dynamic random access memory DRAM such as synchronous DRAM SDRAM or Rambus DRAM RDRAM etc. a static memory e.g. flash memory static random access memory SRAM etc. and a data storage device which communicate with each other via a bus .

Processor represents one or more general purpose processing devices such as a microprocessor central processing unit or the like. More particularly the processor may be a complex instruction set computing CISC microprocessor reduced instruction set computing RISC microprocessor very long instruction word VLIW microprocessor or a processor implementing other instruction sets or processors implementing a combination of instruction sets. The processor may also be one or more special purpose processing devices such as an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA a digital signal processor DSP network processor or the like. The processor is configured to execute instructions for performing the operations and steps discussed herein.

The computer system may further include a network interface device . The computer system also may include a video display unit e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD a cathode ray tube CRT or a touch screen an alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard a cursor control device e.g. a mouse and a signal generation device e.g. a speaker .

The data storage device may include a computer readable storage medium on which is stored one or more sets of instructions e.g. software embodying any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The instructions may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory and or within the processor during execution thereof by the computer system the main memory and the processor also constituting computer readable storage media. The instructions may further be transmitted or received over a network via the network interface device .

In one embodiment the instructions include instructions for a playlist component and or a media viewer which may correspond respectively to their identically named counterparts described with respect to and or a software library containing methods that call a playlist component and or a media viewer for navigation of a list of content sharing platform media on a user device via gesture controls and contextual synchronization. While the computer readable storage medium is shown in an exemplary implementation to be a single medium the term computer readable storage medium should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more sets of instructions. The term computer readable storage medium shall also be taken to include any medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying a set of instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present disclosure. The term computer readable storage medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories optical media and magnetic media.

In the foregoing description numerous details are set forth. It will be apparent however to one of ordinary skill in the art having the benefit of this disclosure that the present disclosure may be practiced without these specific details. In some instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form rather than in detail in order to avoid obscuring the present disclosure.

Some portions of the detailed description have been presented in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on data bits within a computer memory. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are the means used by those skilled in the data processing arts to most effectively convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. An algorithm is here and generally conceived to be a self consistent sequence of steps leading to a desired result. The steps are those requiring physical manipulations of physical quantities. Usually though not necessarily these quantities take the form of electrical or magnetic signals capable of being stored transferred combined compared and otherwise manipulated. It has proven convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to these signals as bits values elements symbols characters terms numbers or the like.

It should be borne in mind however that all of these and similar terms are to be associated with the appropriate physical quantities and are merely convenient labels applied to these quantities. Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the following discussion it is appreciated that throughout the description discussions utilizing terms such as segmenting analyzing determining enabling identifying modifying or the like refer to the actions and processes of a computer system or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and transforms data represented as physical e.g. electronic quantities within the computer system s registers and memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the computer system memories or registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices.

The disclosure also relates to an apparatus for performing the operations herein. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purposes or it may include a general purpose computer selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored in the computer. Such a computer program may be stored in a computer readable storage medium such as but not limited to any type of disk including floppy disks optical disks CD ROMs and magnetic optical disks read only memories ROMs random access memories RAMs EPROMs EEPROMs magnetic or optical cards or any type of media suitable for storing electronic instructions.

The words example or exemplary are used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as example or exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather use of the words example or exemplary is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion. As used in this application the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X includes A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X includes A X includes B or X includes both A and B then X includes A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form. Moreover use of the term an embodiment or one embodiment or an implementation or one implementation throughout is not intended to mean the same embodiment or implementation unless described as such.

Reference throughout this specification to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. Thus the appearances of the phrase in one embodiment or in an embodiment in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment. In addition the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or. 

It is to be understood that the above description is intended to be illustrative and not restrictive. Many other embodiments will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reading and understanding the above description. The scope of the disclosure should therefore be determined with reference to the appended claims along with the full scope of equivalents to which such claims are entitled.

