---

title: Information processing related to wireless setting for wireless communication using first type interface section with first communication protocol and using second type interface section with second communication protocol
abstract: An information processing apparatus may communicate with a communication-target device, which is a device with which the information processing apparatus is to communicate, via a first type interface section. The information processing apparatus may store, in a first storage area, target identification information for identifying the communication-target device as default identification information, in a case where a first network to which the communication-target device belongs is identical to a second network to which the information processing apparatus belongs via the second type interface section. The target identification information may be stored in association with at least one of a plurality of attributes. The information processing apparatus may cause the target identification information not to be stored in the first storage area as the default identification information in a case where the first network is not identical to the second network.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09041965&OS=09041965&RS=09041965
owner: Brother Kogyo Kabushiki Kaisha
number: 09041965
owner_city: Nagoya-shi, Aichi-ken
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20131224
---
This application claims priority to Japanese Patent Application No. 2012 282642 filed on Dec. 26 2012 the contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference into the present application.

The technology disclosed in this specification relates to an information processing apparatus for communicating with devices.

A technology for two communication devices to conduct a wireless communication is known. With the known technology the two communication devices conduct communication of a wireless setting according to a short distance wireless communication that is a wireless communication according to a Near Field Communication NFC protocol . The foregoing wireless setting is a setting for conducting the wireless communication according to a communication protocol for example IEEE802.11a 802.11b which is different from the NFC protocol. Consequently the two communication devices can conduct the wireless communication according to the wireless setting.

Moreover a technology of storing a once set wireless setting and using the stored wireless setting upon re establishing the wireless communication is also known.

When setting a wireless communication e.g. IEEE802.11a according to NFC there are cases where a one time wireless setting is set. The one time wireless setting is a wireless setting which uses different information each time the wireless communication is established. Since the one time wireless setting cannot be used upon reestablishing the wireless communication storage of the one time wireless setting is a futile operation.

In one aspect of the teachings disclosed herein a non transitory computer readable storage medium storing computer executable instructions for an information processing apparatus may be provided. The information processing apparatus may comprise a storage a display an operation section a first type interface section configured to perform a wireless communication in compliance with a first communication protocol a second type interface section configured to perform a wireless communication in compliance with a second communication protocol being different from the first communication protocol and a processor. The computer executable instructions may cause the processor to execute storing in a first storage area of the storage for each of a plurality of attributes an association of the attribute and one or more default identification information for identifying one or more default devices. Each of the one or more default devices may be a device predetermined as a communication destination of the information processing apparatus. The computer executable instructions may cause the processor to execute displaying on the display when the operation section receives an attribute designation operation for designating a specific attribute among the plurality of attributes one or more identification information images indicating one or more default identification information being associated with the specific attribute and being stored in the first storage area. The computer executable instructions may cause the processor to execute sending via the second type interface section when the operation section receives an image designation operation for designating a specific identification information image among the one or more identification information images displayed on the display a command to a specific default device identified by specific default identification information corresponding to the specific identification information image designated in the image designation operation. The command may be for executing processing according to the specific attribute designated in the attribute designation operation. The computer executable instructions may cause the processor to execute communicating with a communication target device which is a device with which the information processing apparatus is to communicate via the first type interface section. The computer executable instructions may cause the processor to execute storing in the first storage area to store target identification information for identifying the communication target device as the default identification information when a first network to which the communication target device belongs is identical to a second network to which the information processing apparatus belongs via the second type interface section. The target identification information may be stored in association with at least one of the plurality of attributes.

An NFC I F of the information processing apparatus can communicate with an NFC I F of the MFP via a Near Field Communication NFC protocol wireless communication . In this example a wireless communication according to the NFC protocol is executed based on ISO IEC 21481 or 18092 Standard.

A wireless LAN I F of the information processing apparatus can conduct a wireless communication of an infrastructure mode with a wireless LAN I F of the MFP via wireless communications and of a wireless LAN protocol. Moreover the wireless LAN I F can conduct a wireless communication of an infrastructure mode with the MFP via a wireless communication of the wireless LAN protocol. Moreover the wireless LAN I F can directly communicate with the wireless LAN I F of the MFP via a wireless communication of a Wi Fi Direct registered trademark of Wi Fi Alliance hereinafter abbreviated as WFD protocol. Moreover the information processing apparatus can create a WFD network by establishing a connection with the MFP according to the WFD protocol.

The wireless communication of the WFD protocol is sometimes established using a one time SSID. The one time SSID is an SSID in which a different character string is used each time the establishment of the wireless communication of the WFD protocol is attempted. The one time SSID that is used for establishing the wireless communication of a certain WFD protocol cannot be used for the wireless communication of another WFD protocol. Moreover with the wireless communication of the WFD protocol there are cases where connection of the communication is sometimes disconnected when a disconnection condition e.g. completion of particular communication or lapse of particular time is satisfied. This is in order to improve the security of the wireless communication of the WFD protocol. Accordingly it could be said that the wireless communication of the WFD protocol is a communication path that may not be used in later occasions. Note that with WFD the wireless communication is conducted based on the 802.11 standard of The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers inc. IEEE and equivalent standards for example 802.11a 11b 11g 11n or the like .

A network N is formed with the first access point the MFP a scanner and a color laser printer . A network N is formed with the second access point the MFP a scanner and a color laser printer . The first access point and the second access point each have a service set identifier SSID . The SSID is a name for identifying the first access point and the second access point respectively. The information processing apparatus can send a print request or a scan request to the MFPs and the scanners and and the color laser printers and based on communication via the wireless LAN I F by executing a print scan application .

The information processing apparatus is for example a portable device such as a portable phone or a portable terminal device. The information processing apparatus comprises a display module a touch screen an input I F a wireless LAN I F an NFC I F a central processing unit CPU a read only memory ROM a random access memory RAM a storage and a timer . These elements are mutually connected via an I O port .

The display module receives an image signal output from the CPU and displays an image based on the received image signal. As the display module for example an LCD or an organic EL display may be used. The touch screen is made from a transparent member and disposed so as to cover a surface of the display module . The touch screen detects a position that was touched by a user s finger or the like and outputs the detected position information to the CPU . The input I F is for example an operation button. The timer is a portion that measures a lapse of a predetermined set time.

The NFC I F is an interface for executing the wireless communication of the NFC protocol. In order to establish the wireless communication of the NFC protocol various types of information e.g. IP address SSID and the like for communication setting are not required. The wireless LAN I F is an interface for executing the wireless communications of the wireless LAN protocol. A communicable distance of the wireless communications of the wireless LAN protocol is longer than a communicable distance of the wireless communication of the NFC protocol. Moreover a communication speed of the wireless communications of the wireless LAN protocol is faster than a communication speed of the wireless communication of the NFC protocol. Moreover frequency bands that are used are different in the NFC protocol and the wireless LAN protocol.

The CPU executes programs stored in the storage . The RAM temporarily stores information required for processing to be performed by the CPU . The storage is configured by combining a flash memory a hard disk HDD a buffer of the CPU and so on. The storage can store image data document data and the like. The storage stores a program . The program includes the print scan application hereinafter indicated as the application and an operating system hereinafter referred to as the OS . The CPU executes processing according to the program . In the ensuing explanation the CPU to execute programs such as the application and the OS is sometimes simply referred to by the program name. For example the description of the application may sometimes mean the CPU that executes the application .

The application is an application for causing the CPU to execute processing such as sending a printing command from the information processing apparatus to the MFP or the like. The OS is a program that provides basic functions and is commonly used by the application and the like. The OS includes programs and the like for conducting a wireless communication with the wireless LAN I F and the NFC I F . Moreover the OS is a program for the respective programs to acquire information that was acquired by the various types of hardware or for providing an application programming interface API for the respective programs to give commands to the various types of hardware.

Moreover the storage stores a default device table TB and a temporary use default device table TB. The default device table TB is a table for storing default device identification information for identifying a default device and a default network SSID for identifying a default network. The default device is a device that is set forth each use. The default device is a device that is preferentially used among a plurality of devices when such a plurality of devices capable of executing processing pertaining to a certain use exists. The default network is a network that is set as a communication destination of a communication using the wireless LAN I F of the information processing apparatus . The network which includes the default device may also be set as the default network.

The default device table TB stores as information related to the device default device identification information a default network SSID and a process setting . The default device identification information is information for identifying the default device and comprises a model number and an IP address . The model number is information for identifying the type of the respective devices. In the first embodiment the device model number of the MFP is Ink MFP . Moreover the device model number of the scanner is Scan . Moreover the device model number of the color laser printer is Laser . The IP address is an identification number that is assigned to the respective devices and used for communication. The default network SSID is an access point name for identifying the access point configuring the default network. The process setting is information indicating the various settings upon executed the respective uses. As examples of the process setting considered may be a color mode image processing size e.g. A4 size L size or the like.

In the example of the default device table TB shown in when device capable of executing processing related to the use of the photo printing exists in a plurality with regard to that use MFPs and color laser printers and it can be seen that the MFP is set as the device that is preferentially used among the plurality of devices.

The temporary use default device table TB of is a table for storing temporary use default device identification information for identifying a temporary use default device and a temporary use default network SSID for identifying a temporary use default network. The temporary use default device is one device that is set for each use upon executing the various types of processing by using a temporary communication path. As an example of a temporary communication path considered may be a communication path of the WFD protocol that is established by using a one time SSID. Note that since the stored contents of the temporary use default device table TB are the same as the default device table TB the explanation thereof is omitted.

The configuration of the MFP is now explained. The MFP mainly comprises a CPU a storage a wireless LAN I F an NFC I F a button input section a panel a printer and a scanner . These constituent elements are mutually communicable via an I O port .

The CPU executes a program stored in the storage . The storage is configured by combining RAM ROM flash memory a hard disk HDD a buffer of the CPU and so on. The storage stores the program . The program includes an OS and the like.

The NFC I F is an interface for executing the wireless communication of the NFC protocol. The wireless LAN I F is an interface for executing the wireless communications of the wireless LAN protocol. The button input section is a key for executing the respective functions of the MFP . The button input section may also be configured integrally as a touch screen with the panel . The panel displays the various types of functional information of the MFP . The printer is a portion for executing printing using the image data stored in the storage . The scanner is a portion for executing reading. Note that while the MFP is configured similarly as the MFP the illustration thereof is is omitted for the simplification of the drawings.

Processing to be performed by the CPU for controlling the respective sections according to the application is now explained with reference to . When the application is activated a flow of is started. In S the application receives a use designation operation for designating a use among the three types of uses of photo printing web printing and scan . For example the application displays on a display module an icon corresponding to each of the three types of uses described above in the display module . In addition upon receiving an operation to touch the portion displaying the icon it is determined that the use indicated by the touched icon has been designated. When scan is designated as the designated use the flow proceeds to S. Meanwhile when photo printing or web printing is designated as the designated use the flow proceeds to S.

In S when photo printing is the designated use the application displays on the display module a list of thumbnails of image data stored in the storage . Moreover in S when web printing is the designated use the application displays on the display module the web page designated by the user. Subsequently an icon for setting the displayed web page as the printing target is displayed on the display module . Explanation of the display method of the web page and the like is omitted since it is not essential to the present invention.

In S the application determines whether the printing target was selected. Specifically the application determines whether the portion displaying the thumbnail or the icon in the display module has been touched by the user. If the portion was touched the application determines that a command for setting the image data of the thumbnail displayed at the touched portion as the printing target or a command for setting the displayed web page as the printing target was received S YES and proceeds to S. Meanwhile when it is determined that a printing target was not selected S NO the application returns to S and repeats the determination.

In S the application determines whether a temporary use default device is set for the designated use that was designated in S. Specifically the application refers to the storage area corresponding to the designated use in the temporary use default device table TB refer to example of . Subsequently the application determines whether the model number and the IP address are stored. When it is determined that a temporary use default device is not set S NO the flow proceeds to S and when it is determined that a temporary use default device is set S YES the flow proceeds to S. In S the application displays on the display module information e.g. model number for identifying the device that is set as the temporary use default device and an icon for receiving an execution instruction for the designated use.

In S the application determines whether a default device is set for the designated use that was designated in S S . Specifically the application refers to the storage area corresponding to the designated use in the default device table TB refer to the example of . Subsequently the application determines whether the model number and the IP address are stored. When it is determined that a default device is not set S NO the flow proceeds to S and when it is determined that a default device is set S YES the flow proceeds to S. In S the application displays on the display module information e.g. model number for identifying the device that is set as the default device and an icon for receiving an execution instruction for the designated use.

In S the application determines whether notification information for starting the NFC was received from the OS . The NFC is started by the information processing apparatus approaching within a particular distance centered around the NFC I F. The particular distance may be for example roughly 10 cm. When the notification information was not received from the OS S NO the flow proceeds to S.

In S the application determines whether an operation for selecting the displayed model number or the like device designation operation was received by the touch screen . When the device designation operation was not received S NO the flow returns to S and when the device designation operation was received S YES the flow proceeds to S.

In S the application executes the designated use. For example when the designated use is photo printing the print request of image data that was selected in S is sent to the default device or the temporary use default device based on communication via the wireless LAN I F by using the IP address and the like read from the default device table TB or the temporary use default device table TB. Moreover when the designated use is web printing the print request of the web page which was designated as the printing target in S is sent to the default device or the temporary use default device based on a communication using the wireless LAN I F . Moreover when the designated use is scan the scan request is sent to the default device or the temporary use default device. Subsequently scan data that was returned from the default device or the temporary use default device is received by the wireless LAN I F . The flow then returns to S.

Meanwhile in S when notification information for starting the NFC is received from the OS S YES the flow proceeds to S. In S the application determines whether a temporary use default device is set for the designated use that was designated in S. Since the determination method is similar to the method performed in S described above the explanation thereof is omitted. When a temporary use default device is not set S NO the flow proceeds to S and when a temporary use default device is set S YES the flow proceeds to S.

In S the application determines whether the device for starting the NFC and the temporary use default device that is set for the designated use are the same device. This determination may also be performed by determining for example whether the model number and the IP address are a match in both devices. When both devices are a match S YES the flow proceeds to S and when both devices are not a match S NO the flow proceeds to S. In S the application turns OFF the timer . Moreover in S the application deletes all information stored in the temporary use default device table TB and then proceeds to S.

In S the application acquires from the OS the SSID of the currently connected network of the information processing apparatus . In S the application uses the wireless communication of the NFC protocol and sends the acquired SSID to the communication target device.

In S the application uses the wireless communication of the NFC protocol and receives communication target device identification information from the communication target device. The communication target device identification information is information for identifying the communication target device. As examples of the communication target device identification information considered may be the model number of the communication target device the IP address of the communication target device the SSID of the network including the communication target device the password of the SSID and the like. Moreover the application may also receive matching information described later from the communication target device.

In S the application determines whether the network including the communication target device and the currently connected network of the information processing apparatus are a match. This determination may also be performed for example based on matching information received from the communication target device in S. The matching information is information indicating whether the network including the communication target device and the currently connected network of the information processing apparatus are a match. The matching information is generated by the communication target device. For example the communication target device may also generate the matching information indicating that the two networks are a match when the SSID this SSID is sent to the communication target device in S of the currently connected network of the information processing apparatus and the SSID this SSID is stored for example in the storage of the communication target device of the network to which the communication target device belongs are a match.

When the two networks are a match S YES it is determined that the information processing apparatus can conduct communication with the communication target device via the currently connected network of the information processing apparatus . Thus since it is not necessary to perform processing for newly establishing a communication path the flow proceeds to S.

In S the application stores in a designated use column of the default device table TB the SSID of the network including the communication target device and the device identification information for identifying the communication target device.

In S performed is first registration processing of storing the default device upon associating that default device with a first non designated use. Moreover in S performed is second registration processing of storing the default device upon associating that default device with a second non designated use.

Here the default device that is registered is the communication target device that is the device that was placed over the information processing apparatus that was selected as the communication target in S. For example when the designated use selected in S is photo printing a default device is stored by being associated with web printing first non designated use in the first registration processing and a default device is stored by being associated with scan second non designated use in the second registration processing. Moreover when the designated use selected in S is web printing a default device is stored by being associated with scan first non designated use in the first registration processing and a default device is stored by being associated with photo printing second non designated use in the second registration processing. Moreover when the designated use selected in S is scan a default device is stored by being associated with photo printing first non designated use in the first registration processing and a default device is stored by being associated with web printing second non designated use in the second registration processing.

As an example explained is the processing of storing a default device by associating that default device with the non designated use of web printing . This processing is performed in the first registration processing S or the second registration processing S . The application determines whether the model number and the like have previously been stored in the storage area of the web printing of the default device table TB. The processing is ended when the model number and the like have previously been stored. When the model number and the like have not yet been stored the default device identification information the default network SSID and the process setting are stored in the storage area of the web printing of the default device table TB.

Note that since the processing contents of storing a default device by associating that default device with the non designated use of scan or photo printing are the same as the processing contents of storing a default device by associating that default device with the non designated use of web printing described above the explanation thereof is omitted.

Upon proceeding to S the application uses the wireless LAN I F to communicate various types of data with the communication target device for executing the designated use. Since the communication using the wireless LAN I F is faster than the communication using the NFC I F various types of data can be communicated in a shorter time. When the execution of the designated use is complete the flow proceeds to S the application displays a top menu screen on the display module and then the flow returns to S.

Meanwhile in S when it is determined that the network including the communication target device and the currently connected network of the information processing apparatus are not a match S NO the flow proceeds to S. In S the application receives the designated SSID from the communication target device via the wireless communication of the NFC protocol. The designated SSID is the SSID that was designated by the communication target device. Moreover the designated SSID is the SSID that is used upon communicating with the communication target device via the wireless LAN I F .

In S the application determines whether the designated SSID received from the communication target device is a one time SSID. The one time SSID is an SSID having a different character string each time it is issued. Moreover the one time SSID is an SSID for performing wireless communication of the WFD protocol described above. As one example of a method of distinguishing whether the designated SSID is a one time SSID there is the method of determining whether a particular character string indicating a one time SSID is included in the character string of the designated SSID. Moreover as an example of a particular character string considered may be a character string such as one time contained in a node name.

When the designated SSID is not a one time SSID S NO it is possible to determine that the wireless LAN communication of the infrastructure mode via an access point has been designated by the communication target device. Thus the flow proceeds to S the application establishes the wireless LAN communication of the infrastructure mode and then the flow proceeds to S. Meanwhile in S when it is determined that the designated SSID is a one time SSID S YES it is determined that the wireless communication of the WFD protocol has been designated by the communication target device and the flow proceeds to S.

In S the application stores the one time SSID and the device identification information for identifying the communication target device in the designated use column of the temporary use default device table TB.

In S performed is the first registration processing of storing the temporary use default device by associating it with the first non designated use. Moreover in S performed is the second registration processing of storing the temporary use default device by associating it with the second non designated use. Note that since the processing contents performed in S and S are similar to the processing contents performed in S and S described above the explanation thereof is omitted.

In S the application communicates with the communication target device based on the wireless communication of the WFD protocol. Specifically the application communicates with the communication target device based on the wireless communication of the WFD protocol via the wireless LAN I F by providing the one time SSID received in S to the OS . Moreover the application starts measuring the set time by turning ON the timer and then proceeds to S.

Timer processing is now explained with reference to . The flow of is the flow that is started by the timer being turned ON in S. In S the application determines whether the time is up in the timer that is whether a predetermined set time has elapsed . When the time is not up S NO the flow returns to S and when the time is up S YES the flow proceeds to S.

In S the application turns OFF the timer . In S the application deletes all information stored in the temporary use default device table TB and then ends the flow.

In a first operational example explained is a case where the information processing apparatus is in a state of being connected to the first access point included in the network N based on the wireless communication . Moreover in the below case the user places the information processing apparatus over the MFP that is selects the MFP as the communication target device . Moreover in the below case the user executes photo printing the first time and executes scan the second time. Moreover in the below case no information is stored in the default device table TB.

As a result of the user designating photo printing as the designated use S photo printing the printing target is selected S Y . Since a temporary use default device is not set S N and a default device is not set S N information for identifying the default device is not displayed on the display module . When the user places the information processing apparatus over the MFP S Y the SSID that is SSID 1 of the first access point of the currently connected network N of the information processing apparatus is acquired from the OS S . Moreover the acquired SSID is sent to the MFP as the communication target device S . The application uses the wireless communication of the NFC protocol and receives from the MFP the communication target device identification information for identifying the MFP S .

Since the network including the MFP as the communication target device and the currently connected network of the information processing apparatus are both the network N and are a match S Y the default device identification information of the MFP the SSID of the network N and the process setting are stored in the column of the photo printing of the default device table TB S region R . The default device identification information the SSID of the network N and the process setting are stored in the default device table TB by being associated with web printing as the first non designated use S region R . The default device identification information the SSID of the network N and the process setting are stored in the default device table TB by being associated with scan as the second non designated use S region R . Data for executing photo printing is sent to the MFP via the wireless communications and S . When the processing of photo printing is complete the top menu screen is displayed on the display module S .

When the user designates scan as the second processing S scan since the default device has been set S Y the model number of the MFP as the default device corresponding to the designated use of scan and other information are displayed on the display module S image P . When the user touches the image P S Y the scan request is sent to the MFP as the default device via the wireless communications and S . The flow then returns to S.

In a second operational example explained is a case where the information processing apparatus is in a state of being connected to the second access point included in the network N based on the wireless communication . Moreover in the below case the user places the information processing apparatus over the MFP that is selects the MFP as the communication target device . Moreover in the below case the user executes photo printing the first time and executes scan the second time. Moreover in the below case the MFP is registered as the default device for the uses of the photo printing and the scan of the default device table TB. Moreover in the below case the one time SSID is received as the designated SSID.

As a result of the user designating photo printing as the designated use S photo printing the printing target is selected S Y . Since the MFP is set as the default device for photo printing S Y the model number of the MFP corresponding to the designated use of photo printing and other information are displayed on the display module S image P . When the user places the information processing apparatus over the MFP S Y the SSID that is SSID 2 of the second access point of the currently connected network N of the information processing apparatus is acquired from the OS S . Moreover the acquired SSID is sent to the MFP as the communication target device S . The application uses the wireless communication of the NFC protocol and receives from the MFP the communication target device identification information for identifying the MFP S .

Since the network that is network N including the MFP as the communication target device and the currently connected network that is network N of the information processing apparatus are different networks S N the designated SSID is received from the MFP via the wireless communication of the NFC protocol S . Since the received designated SSID is a one time SSID S Y the identification information of the MFP the one time SSID and the process setting are stored in the column of the photo printing of the temporary use default device table TB S region R . The identification information of the MFP the one time SSID and the process setting are stored in the temporary use default device table TB by being associated with web printing as the first non designated use S region R . The identification information of the MFP the one time SSID and the process setting are stored in the temporary use default device table TB by being associated with scan as the second non designated use S region R .

The communication of the information processing apparatus and the MFP is established based on the wireless communication of the WFD protocol S . Moreover the timer is turned ON S . Data for performing photo printing is sent to the MFP via the wireless communication S . When the processing of photo printing is complete the top menu screen is displayed on the display module S .

When the user designates scan as the second processing S scan since both the temporary use default device that is MFP and the default device that is MFP are set S Y S Y the model number of the temporary use default device and the model number of the default device and other information are displayed on the display module corresponding to the designated use of scan S images P and P . When the user touches the image P S Y the scan request is sent to the MFP as the default device via the wireless communication S . Moreover when the user touches the image P S Y the scan request is sent to the MFP as the temporary default device via the wireless communication S . Moreover when the set time elapses from the time that the timer is turned ON S Y all information stored in the temporary use default device table TB is deleted S . Thus in the image P is not displayed.

Effects of the application described above are now explained. With the application it is possible to determine that communicating with the communication target device by using the connected network when the network including the communication target device that is the device touched the information processing apparatus and the network to which the information processing apparatus is connected via the wireless LAN I F are the same networks S Y . To put it differently since it is not necessarily to newly establish a wireless communication it is possible to determine that the wireless communication e.g. wireless communication of the WFD protocol which may become unavailable subsequently may not be used. Thus information for identifying the communication target device can be stored in the default device table TB by being associated with uses other than the designated use designated in S as information for identifying the default device S S . Consequently it is possible to improve the user s convenience since there is no need to perform operations such as registering the default device for each type of use e.g. photo printing web printing scan .

Moreover even in cases where the wireless communication e.g. wireless communication of the WFD protocol that may become unavailable subsequently is used S the identification information of the communication target device that is the device that touched the information processing apparatus can be stored in the temporary use default device table TB by being associated with uses other than the designated use that was designated in S S S . Moreover in accordance with the elapse of the set time from the start of the wireless communication which may become unavailable subsequently S Y all information stored in the temporary use default device table TB may be deleted S . Consequently it is possible to eliminate the need to perform operations such as registering the temporary use default device for each type of use e.g. photo printing web printing scan . In addition by merely selecting the model number of the temporary use default device until the elapse of the set time S Y various types of processing can be performed S . Moreover by performing control so that the temporary use default device table TB can be used only until the set time elapses it is possible to prevent a situation where the communication path that may become unavailable subsequently is continuously used by the user.

With the application it is possible to determine whether the network including the communication target device and the currently connected network of the information processing apparatus are a match based on the matching information received from the communication target device S . Consequently since the matching of the two networks can be performed by the communication target device the processing load of the information processing apparatus can be reduced.

While specific embodiments of the present invention have been described in detail above such description is for illustrative purposes only and is not intended to limit the scope and claims of the invention. Techniques described in the claims of the invention include various modifications and changes made to the specific examples illustrated above. Modifications according to the above embodiments are listed below.

While this embodiment explained a case where when it is determined that the network including the communication target device and the currently connected network of the information processing apparatus are not a match S NO information for identifying the communication target device is stored in the temporary use default device table TB the configuration is not limited thereto. When the two networks are not a match it is also possible to not store any information in any of the tables. In the foregoing case in S the temporary use default device is not displayed on the display module . Moreover in the foregoing case it is possible to omit S S S S S and the like.

The condition for deleting all information stored in the temporary use default device table TB is not limited to the lapse of the set time S Y and various conditions may be used. For example the information stored in the temporary use default device table TB may also be deleted when the wireless communication of the WFD protocol established in S is disconnected. Consequently the temporary use default device can be designated as the device for executing the designated use while the connection to the communication target device using the wireless communication of the WFD is being established S .

While this embodiment explained a mode of displaying both the model number of the temporary use default device and the model number of the default device S and S the configuration is not limited thereto. Even when the default device is set while the temporary use default device is being set S it is possible to display only the model number of the temporary use default device. During the period that only the model of the temporary use default device is being displayed there is no need for the user to designate the device for executing the designated use. Thus it is also possible to adopt a mode of automatically selecting the temporary use default device as the device for executing the designated use. Otherwise it is also possible to adopt the temporary use default device as the device for executing the designated use according to whether the operation for selecting the model number of the temporary use default device is received. Subsequently when the setting of the temporary use default device is cancelled S the model number of the default device may be displayed S . Consequently when both the temporary use default device and the default device are set it is possible to cause the temporary use default device to preferentially execute the processing. In order to perform this kind of control after the step of S in the flow of the flow should proceed to S.

The matching of the network including the communication target device and a specific network is not limited to the mode of being executed with the communication target device. The matching may also be executed by the application . In the foregoing case in S the application may receive from the communication target device the SSID for identifying the network included in the communication target device. Moreover in the application may determine whether the SSID this SSID is read for example from the storage of the currently connected network of the information processing apparatus and the SSID this SSID is acquired in S of the network to which the communication target device belongs are a match. Consequently the matching can be executed by the application .

Registration of the default device in the default device table TB is not limited to the mode performed in S S. For example the default device can also be registered by the user operating the touch screen or the like and inputting an IP address or the like.

The timing of the application acquiring the SSID of the currently connected network of the information processing apparatus from the OS is not limited to the timing of S. For example the SSID may also be acquired at the timing of displaying a printing preview or the timing of activating the application .

The processing of S and S can be omitted. In the foregoing case the designated SSID is constantly treated as a one time SSID. Thus communication with the communication target device is constantly based on the wireless communication of the WFD protocol.

This embodiment explained a mode of selecting as the communication target device the device that executed the NFC by the user holding the information processing apparatus over that device and causing that communication target device to execute the printing processing. When executing the printing processing using the NFC as described above information for causing the user to recognize that it is printing processing using the NFC may be displayed on the display module . For example a character string indicating that the device over which the information processing apparatus was placed is executing the printing may be displayed on the display module .

The value of the IP address and the character string of the SSID used in this embodiment are merely examples and various values and character strings may be used.

While this embodiment described a mode of the wireless LAN I F of the information processing apparatus conducting the wireless communication of the infrastructure mode with the MFPs and the configuration is not limited thereto. The wireless LAN I F may also perform the wireless communication of an ad hoc mode with the MFPs and without going through the first access point or the second access point .

Communication between the first access point and the MFP the scanner and the color laser printer and communication between the second access point and the MFP the scanner and the color laser printer may be a wireless or wired communication.

The display example of the display module of to is merely an example. The display module may also display images of various display modes.

The model numbers and may be anything so as long as they are able to differentiate the devices for instance they may be configured only from symbols without including numbers. Moreover a name such as the device name capable of differentiating the devices may be used in substitute for the model number.

Information for identifying the device is not limited to the IP addresses and and may also be configured from an URL or a MAC address.

The information processing apparatus may also be configured so that an external memory such as a memory card can be connected thereto. Furthermore in substitute for the storage a configuration of storing the various types of data in an external memory can be adopted.

For example the print scan application may be stored in a non transitory computer readable storage medium included in a server not shown. A hard disk drive included in the server is an example of the non transitory computer readable storage medium. The information processing apparatus may acquire the print scan application from the server via the wireless LAN I F and install the acquired print scan application in the storage .

Each program may be constituted by a single program module or by a plurality of program modules. Each example may adopt another replaceable configuration which is within the context of the present invention. Adoptable configurations include a computer the CPU or the like which executes processing based on a program the print scan application or the like a computer which executes processing based on a program other than an image processing program such as an operating system and other applications a hardware configuration the touch screen or the like which operates according to an instruction by a computer and a configuration in which a computer and a hardware configuration work in conjunction with each other. Obviously adoptable configurations also include a computer which executes processing by coupling processing based on a plurality of programs and a hardware configuration which operates according to an instruction by a computer which executes processing by coupling processing based on a plurality of programs.

