---

title: Tunable achromatizing optical apparatus, methods, and applications
abstract: A tunable, achromatizing optical system for use with a broadband imaging modality system for imaging objects having a range of longitudinal chromatic aberration (LCA) values. The optical system includes an achromatizing component and a parfocal component, for example, a zoom system. A method for tuning the wavefront curvature of different chromatic components of objects having a range of longitudinal chromatic aberration (LCA) values when imaged by a broadband imaging modality system includes the steps of providing a broadband imaging modality system having an entrance pupil, for imaging an object having longitudinal chromatic aberration; providing a tunable, achromatizing optical system; and varying the focal length of the parfocal component while maintaining a conjugate relationship between the achromatizing component and the entrance pupil of the broadband imaging modality system.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08888285&OS=08888285&RS=08888285
owner: University of Rochester
number: 08888285
owner_city: Rochester
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131016
---
This application claims the benefit of priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 e to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 714 459 filed Oct. 16 2012 the content of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This work was supported under one or more of the following grants provided by the National Institutes of Health NIH EY022371 EY014375 and EY021166. . The U.S. Government has certain rights in this invention.

Embodiments of the invention relate generally to optical systems methods and applications. More particularly embodiments of the invention are directed to a tunable achromatizing optical system and method and applications for use in ophthalmic imaging and other optical systems.

Adaptive optics based research instruments and the pervasive use of imaging techniques such as optical coherence tomography has made high resolution ophthalmic imaging of retinal structure at a cellular scale more the clinical norm rather than the exception. Technological advances such as better deformable mirrors more efficient light sources and detection channels robust electronic devices and software engines for controlling equipment in real time and for post processing have brought high resolution retinal imaging into the era of functional imaging. Some of the most attractive and cutting edge methodologies currently being developed include AO enabled optical coherence tomography hyper spectral imaging and two photon fluorescence imaging all have one thing in common all of these modalities use broad band light sources. The spectral bandwidth of these sources is in many ways essential to the signal efficiency resolution and the clinical efficacy of these instruments. With their development light sources broader than many tens of nanometers to several hundreds of nanometers in bandwidths will soon be used extensively for high resolution retinal imaging.

Use of such broadband light sources brings with it certain complexities notably the inherent chromatic aberration properties of the eye. Longitudinal chromatic aberration LCA has been measured and documented over a wavelength regime from 450 to 900 nm. The data for human LCA in the visible regime and in the near infrared regime together inform that the average LCA between 450 and 900 nm is about 1.6 D. In other words the shortest and longest wavelengths in this band end up focusing roughly 300 nm apart in the retina. While this is the average LCA among the population of people recruited for experiments the LCA varies from person to person and eye to eye this variation believed by some to be due to differences in corneal radius.

In vivo two photon imaging has been demonstrated in the living mouse eye. Ultrashort broadband pulses generated in mode locked lasers are typically used for two photon excitation. In terms of diopters D the mouse eye suffers from substantial longitudinal chromatic aberration LCA which is on average almost an order of magnitude greater than that for the human eye. Depending on the bandwidth of the pulsed laser source this larger amount of LCA may reduce the efficiency of two photon excitation by as much as 70 or more.

Achromatizing lenses have previously been designed for the human eye in the visible and infrared regimes to correct for the typical range of the LCA in a given eye demonstrating improvements in ultrahigh resolution optical coherence tomography. Since the LCA of the eye causes different wavelengths to focus at different retinal layers an achromatizing lens provides equal and opposite wavefront curvature or dioptric power to all wavelengths across the spectral bandwidth of interest see e.g. . When the light is focused by the eye all wavelengths converge to the same layer in the retina. Thus in ophthalmic systems an achromatizing lens is typically placed in a conjugate pupil plane of the eye and the magnitude of wavefront curvature would depend on the magnification between the ocular pupil plane and the achromatizing lens. For an AOSLO instrument for example the entrance pupil EP of the optical system or a plane that is conjugate to the EP is the most suitable location to place such a lens.

A static achromatizing lens functions as it is designed to for one particular eye whose chromatic aberration profile is equal and opposite to that of the lens. However given the variability of LCA from eye to eye the use of a static achromatizing lens provides varying levels of uncorrected LCA in different eyes. For broadband imaging modalities uncorrected LCA can result in different wavelengths being focused too far away from each other. For optical coherence tomography this will adversely affect the axial resolution of the instrument. For hyperspectral imaging which relies on capturing the contrast of the tissue at different wavelengths the lack of reliability of imaging the same layer at different wavelengths is detrimental to the clinical information this modality can convey. For two photon imaging depending on the pulse width of light used the uncorrected LCA can result in spatio temporal focusing discrepancies that have the potential to decimate the efficiency of two photon fluorescence as well as spatial resolution.

In view of the aforementioned shortcomings known in the art and the challenges presented by uncorrected LCA it would be advantageous to have a tunable LCA correcting optical system operable over a spectral range from about 400 nm to about 1000 nm.

As may be used herein for purposes of the present disclosure the term about means the amount of the specified quantity plus minus a fractional amount thereof that a person skilled in the art would recognize as typical and reasonable for that particular quantity or measurement for example about 1000 nm may mean 980 981 982 . . . 1001 1002 . . . 1020 nm. Likewise the term substantially means as close to or similar to the specified term being modified as a person skilled in the art would recognize as typical and reasonable.

The term controller as may be used herein is used generally to describe various apparatus relating to the operation of one or more light sources. A controller can be implemented in numerous ways e.g. such as with dedicated hardware to perform various functions discussed herein. A processor is one example of a controller which employs one or more microprocessors that may be programmed using software e.g. microcode to perform various functions. A controller may be implemented with or without employing a processor and also may be implemented as a combination of dedicated hardware to perform some functions and a processor e.g. one or more programmed microprocessors and associated circuitry to perform other functions. Examples of controller components include but are not limited to conventional microprocessors application specific integrated circuits ASICs and field programmable gate arrays FPGAs .

In various implementations a processor or controller may be associated with one or more storage media generically referred to as memory e.g. volatile and non volatile computer memory such as RAM PROM EPROM and EEPROM floppy disks compact disks optical disks magnetic tape etc. . The storage media may be encoded with one or more programs that when executed on one or more processors and or controllers perform certain functions. Various storage media may be fixed within a processor or controller or may be transportable such that the one or more programs stored thereon can be loaded into a processor or controller so as to implement various aspects of the invention. The terms program or computer program as may be used herein refer in a generic sense to any type of computer code e.g. software or microcode that can be employed to program one or more processors or controllers.

The term network as may be used herein as used herein refers to any interconnection of two or more devices including controllers or processors that facilitates the transport of information e.g. for device control data storage data exchange etc. between any two or more devices and or among multiple devices coupled to the network. As should be readily appreciated various implementations of networks suitable for interconnecting multiple devices may include any of a variety of network topologies and employ any of a variety of communication protocols. Additionally any one connection between two devices may represent a dedicated connection between the two systems or alternatively a non dedicated connection. In addition to carrying information intended for the two devices such a non dedicated connection may carry information not necessarily intended for either of the two devices e.g. an open network connection . Furthermore it should be readily appreciated that various networks of devices may employ one or more wireless wire cable and or fiber optic links to facilitate information transport throughout the network.

The term user interface as may be used herein refers to an interface between a human user or operator and one or more devices that enables communication between the user and the device s . Examples of user interfaces include but are not limited to switches potentiometers buttons dials sliders a mouse keyboard keypad various types of game controllers e.g. joysticks track balls display screens various types of graphical user interfaces GUIs touch screens microphones and other types of sensors that may receive some form of human generated stimulus and generate a signal in response thereto.

It should be appreciated that all combinations of the foregoing concepts and additional concepts discussed in greater detail below provided such concepts are not mutually inconsistent are contemplated as being part of the inventive subject matter disclosed herein. In particular all combinations of claimed subject matter appearing at the end of this disclosure are contemplated as being part of the inventive subject matter disclosed herein. It should also be appreciated that terminology explicitly employed herein that also may appear in any disclosure incorporated by reference should be accorded a meaning most consistent with the particular concepts disclosed herein.

An embodiment of the invention is a tunable achromatizing optical system for use with a broadband imaging modality system for imaging objects having a range of longitudinal chromatic aberration LCA values noting that LCA is conventionally described in graphical terms as the plot of axial focal length as a function of wavelength or as a plot of wavefront curvature in diopters as a function of wavelength. The magnitude of LCA is always defined over a spectral range and is quantified as the difference in focal lengths or difference in dioptric curvature between the shortest and longest wavelength in the spectral range. Since the plots of LCA over a spectral range are not linear variations in LCA from subject to subject can be quantified as a distribution of difference in focal lengths or curvatures in diopters . Graphically this shows up as different scaled versions of the base LCA curve. Thus the range of LCA values referred to herein are a range of curves that are scaled versions of each other. As the scaling parameter changes the LCA curve changes and the absolute difference between the shortest and longest wavelengths changes. The embodied optical system includes an achromatizing component and a parfocal component disposed on an object side of the achromatizing component and in optical alignment therewith wherein the parfocal component has a first image side optic and a last object side optic further wherein the achromatizing component is disposed one focal length of the first image side optic from the first image side optic. According to various exemplary non limiting aspects and versions of embodiments the tunable achromatizing optical system may additionally include the following features or characteristics 

An embodiment of the invention is a method for tuning the wavefront curvature of different chromatic components of objects having a range of longitudinal chromatic aberration LCA values when imaged by a broadband imaging modality system. The method includes the steps of providing a broadband imaging modality system for imaging an object having longitudinal chromatic aberration wherein the broadband imaging modality system has an entrance pupil providing a tunable achromatizing optical system as set forth hereinabove positioning the tunable achromatizing optical system one focal length from the entrance pupil of the broadband imaging modality system varying the focal length of the parfocal component while maintaining a conjugate relationship between the achromatizing component and the entrance pupil of the broadband imaging modality system. According to various exemplary non limiting aspects and versions of embodiments the method may additionally include the following features steps or characteristics 

It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description are merely exemplary of the invention and are intended to provide an overview or framework for understanding the nature and character of the invention as it is claimed. The accompanying drawings are included to provide a further understanding of the invention and are incorporated in and constitute a part of this specification. The drawings illustrate various embodiments of the invention and together with the description serve to explain the principles and operation of the invention.

Reference will now be made in detail to the present exemplary embodiments of the invention examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings. Wherever possible the same reference numbers will be used throughout the drawings to refer to the same or like parts.

The achromatizing lens provides wavefront curvatures to each wavelength component of a broadband light source as illustrated in which are equal and opposite to the LCA of the eye being measured imaged not shown . The achromatizing lens is disposed in a plane that is optically conjugate to the pupil of the eye and for an AOSLO instrument as disclosed by example herein the entrance pupil EP of the AOSLO optical system or in a plane that is conjugate to the EP as shown is the most suitable location to place the lens.

The zoom lens is used for tuning the wavefront curvature of the different chromatic components. In a prototype embodiment a static achromatizing lens designed for collimated light with respect to the chromatic mouse model eye was developed in ray tracing software. This element is then relayed to EP of the ASOLO imaging system using a 4 f telescope by placing it one focal length f away from the first lens of the telescope where fis the combined focal length of the doublet which depends on the focal length of the individual lenses and their separation . The EP is therefore located one focal length f after the first object side lens having a focal length f.

As illustrated in the three modalities of to compensate for different values of LCA the focal length of one of the two elements of the telescope are varied. While maintaining the required conjugate relationship between the static achromatizing element and the EP varying the focal lengths of one of the elements scales the wavefront curvatures of different wavelengths at the EP providing a tunable chromatic correction. In the illustrated optical system lens element form an air spaced doublet as one element of the telescope thus adjusting the spacing between the constituents of the doublet will change the focal length and thereby provide the necessary tuning for chromatic correction. Design of the zoom lens system was performed in ray tracing software and the system s feasibility was verified. The tuning range of the illustrated zoom system was sufficient to provide chromatic correction for the range over which the LCA was expected to vary in the mouse eye. Similarly the tuning range of a zoom system was also established for providing chromatic correction for the range over which the LCA is expected to vary in the human eye.

LCA variation plots of different eyes plotted with respect to a reference wavelength are nearly scaled versions of each other. This implies that a tunable achromatizing lens must be capable of scaling the wavefront curvature at different wavelengths with respect to a reference wavelength.

We have presented a novel tunable achromatizing optical system that comprises the optical combination of an achromatizing component and a parfocal component wherein the achromatizing component is maintained at the front focal plane of the parfocal component and the entrance pupil of the ophthalmic imaging system not part of the invention per se is maintained at the back focal plane of the parfocal component.

It will be appreciated that parfocal systems such as the zoom lens system disclosed herein can take a variety of optical forms e.g. refractive reflective and catadioptric zoom lens systems. Various approaches could be utilized in conjunction to tune the achromatizing correction for the eye. They can broadly be classified into the following categories 

In the curves show the impact of zooming the tunable achromatizing lens when parameters are defined for the human eye. When the zoom lens is at a 1 1 magnification the achromatizing lens is imaged directly to the entrance pupil of the system and it corrects the native LCA of about 1.6 D between 450 and 900 nm. As the system is zoomed the magnification between the achromatizing lens and the entrance pupil of the system changes and the LCA correction applied changes with it. At one extreme when the pupil is demagnified the system goes on to correct the native LCA of 1.75 D and at the other extreme when the pupil is magnified LCA of about 1.5 D is corrected. This provides sufficient range to correct for the estimated LCA variability expected from corneal curvature variations among people.

While several inventive embodiments have been described and illustrated herein those of ordinary skill in the art will readily envision a variety of other means and or structures for performing the function and or obtaining the results and or one or more of the advantages described herein and each of such variations and or modifications is deemed to be within the scope of the inventive embodiments described herein. More generally those skilled in the art will readily appreciate that all parameters dimensions materials and configurations described herein are meant to be exemplary and that the actual parameters dimensions materials and or configurations will depend upon the specific application or applications for which the inventive teachings is are used. Those skilled in the art will recognize or be able to ascertain using no more than routine experimentation many equivalents to the specific inventive embodiments described herein. It is therefore to be understood that the foregoing embodiments are presented by way of example only and that within the scope of the appended claims and equivalents thereto inventive embodiments may be practiced otherwise than as specifically described and claimed. Inventive embodiments of the present disclosure are directed to each individual feature system article material kit and or method described herein. In addition any combination of two or more such features systems articles materials kits and or methods if such features systems articles materials kits and or methods are not mutually inconsistent is included within the inventive scope of the present disclosure.

All definitions as defined and used herein should be understood to control over dictionary definitions definitions in documents incorporated by reference and or ordinary meanings of the defined terms.

The indefinite articles a and an as used herein in the specification and in the claims unless clearly indicated to the contrary should be understood to mean at least one. 

The phrase and or as used herein in the specification and in the claims should be understood to mean either or both of the elements so conjoined i.e. elements that are conjunctively present in some cases and disjunctively present in other cases. Multiple elements listed with and or should be construed in the same fashion i.e. one or more of the elements so conjoined. Other elements may optionally be present other than the elements specifically identified by the and or clause whether related or unrelated to those elements specifically identified. Thus as a non limiting example a reference to A and or B when used in conjunction with open ended language such as comprising can refer in one embodiment to A only optionally including elements other than B in another embodiment to B only optionally including elements other than A in yet another embodiment to both A and B optionally including other elements etc.

As used herein in the specification and in the claims or should be understood to have the same meaning as and or as defined above. For example when separating items in a list or or and or shall be interpreted as being inclusive i.e. the inclusion of at least one but also including more than one of a number or list of elements and optionally additional unlisted items. Only terms clearly indicated to the contrary such as only one of or exactly one of or when used in the claims consisting of will refer to the inclusion of exactly one element of a number or list of elements. In general the term or as used herein shall only be interpreted as indicating exclusive alternatives i.e. one or the other but not both when preceded by terms of exclusivity such as either one of only one of or exactly one of. Consisting essentially of when used in the claims shall have its ordinary meaning as used in the field of patent law.

As used herein in the specification and in the claims the phrase at least one in reference to a list of one or more elements should be understood to mean at least one element selected from any one or more of the elements in the list of elements but not necessarily including at least one of each and every element specifically listed within the list of elements and not excluding any combinations of elements in the list of elements. This definition also allows that elements may optionally be present other than the elements specifically identified within the list of elements to which the phrase at least one refers whether related or unrelated to those elements specifically identified. Thus as a non limiting example at least one of A and B or equivalently at least one of A or B or equivalently at least one of A and or B can refer in one embodiment to at least one optionally including more than one A with no B present and optionally including elements other than B in another embodiment to at least one optionally including more than one B with no A present and optionally including elements other than A in yet another embodiment to at least one optionally including more than one A and at least one optionally including more than one B and optionally including other elements etc.

It should also be understood that unless clearly indicated to the contrary in any methods claimed herein that include more than one step or act the order of the steps or acts of the method is not necessarily limited to the order in which the steps or acts of the method are recited.

In the claims as well as in the specification above all transitional phrases such as comprising including carrying having containing involving holding composed of and the like are to be understood to be open ended i.e. to mean including but not limited to. Only the transitional phrases consisting of and consisting essentially of shall be closed or semi closed transitional phrases respectively as set forth in the United States Patent Office Manual of Patent Examining Procedures Section 2111.03.

