---

title: Adjustable camshaft
abstract: The present invention relates to an adjustable camshaft for the valve gear of an internal combustion engine having an outer shaft, on which at least one first cam is arranged which is connected fixedly to said outer shaft so as to rotate with it, and having an inner shaft which extends through the outer shaft and to which at least one second cam is connected fixedly so as to rotate with it and is mounted rotatably on the outer shaft, and it being possible for oil to be conducted from a gap between the outer shaft and the inner shaft through an oil duct in the outer shaft into the region between the second cam and the outer shaft. According to the invention, the second cam is sealed at least partially against the outer shaft by means of at least one sealing element.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09617876&OS=09617876&RS=09617876
owner: THYSSENKRUPP PRESTA TECCENTER AG
number: 09617876
owner_city: Eschen
owner_country: LI
publication_date: 20130719
---
This application is a U.S. National Stage Entry of International Patent Application Serial Number PCT EP2013 065299 filed Jul. 19 2013 which claims priority to German patent application no. DE 102012106856.9 filed Jul. 27 2012.

The present invention relates to an adjustable camshaft for the valve gear of an internal combustion engine having an outer shaft on which at least one first cam is arranged which is connected fixedly to said outer shaft so as to rotate with it and having an inner shaft which extends through the outer shaft and to which at least one second cam is connected fixedly so as to rotate with it and is mounted rotatably on the outer shaft and it being possible for oil to be conducted from a gap between the outer shaft and the inner shaft through an oil duct in the outer shaft into the region between the second cam and the outer shaft.

DE 20 2005 021 715 U1 has disclosed an adjustable camshaft for the valve gear of an internal combustion engine having an outer shaft on which first cams are arranged which are arranged fixedly with said outer shaft so as to rotate with it and an inner shaft extending through the outer shaft to which inner shaft second cams are connected fixedly so as to rotate with it. The second cams are mounted on the outer side on the outer shaft. If the inner shaft is rotated with respect to the outer shaft in terms of its phase position the control position of the first cams is displaced with respect to the control position of the second cams. A cam adjusting device which can be activated by way of compressed oil is arranged on the camshaft in order to change the phase position of the inner shaft with respect to the phase position of the outer shaft.

Oil is conducted in the radial gap between the inner shaft and the outer shaft which oil is fed to the gap at a positive pressure. In order to supply the plain bearing seat of the second cams on the outer side of the outer shaft with oil the outer shaft has at least one oil duct in the region of the second cams through which oil duct oil is conducted out of the gap into the region between the second cam and the outer shaft. Here the oil duct is formed by pin openings in the outer shaft through which pin openings a pin is guided for coupling the second cam to the inner shaft.

The oil can be introduced via a camshaft bearing into the gap between the inner and the outer shaft there being a plurality of camshaft bearings for mounting the adjustable camshaft in the cylinder head. One exemplary embodiment of DE 20 2005 021 715 U1 discloses a camshaft bearing which is arranged so as to adjoin a cam adjusting device by way of which the inner shaft can be rotated with respect to the outer shaft in terms of its phase position. It is known here that the oil is conducted into the gap via the camshaft bearing which adjoins the cam adjusting device which results in the disadvantage however that the configuration of the camshaft bearing adjacently with respect to the cam adjusting device has to be of complicated construction since only a limited amount of installation space is available. The arrangement which is shown therefore does not make it possible to supply the cam adjusting device with oil from the gap between the inner shaft and the outer shaft and the oil supply has to be configured separately.

The oil supply of the gap between the inner shaft and the outer shaft can usually take place via an outer camshaft bearing which is arranged so as to adjoin the cam adjusting device and mounts the camshaft in the cylinder head. The cam adjusting device can therefore be supplied directly via the compressed oil which is fed in at the same time the gap between the inner shaft and the outer shaft being fed with compressed oil. This disadvantageously results in a pressure loss in the case of every second cam which is connected to the inner shaft since a considerable outflow of compressed oil has to be determined through the oil duct into the region between the outer side of the outer shaft and the second cam. As a consequence the oil supply of individual adjusting cams becomes less satisfactory as the distance increases from the infeed point of the oil via the camshaft bearing which adjoins the cam adjusting device. As a further consequence the oil has to be fed into the gap between the inner shaft and the outer shaft at a plurality of locations.

If the oil is fed in via a camshaft bearing which is at a distance from the cam adjusting device a pressure loss results over the axial course of the gap at every adjusting cam with the result that the cam adjusting device is no longer supplied sufficiently with compressed oil from the gap between the inner shaft and the outer shaft.

The disadvantages of the prior art result in the object of the invention namely to provide an adjustable camshaft with an improved oil supply. In particular the object arises to provide an improved feed of oil into the gap between the inner shaft and the outer shaft furthermore a supply which is sufficient and as homogeneous as possible of all the cams which are received rotatably on the outer shaft should be made possible. Finally the further object of the invention arises to provide the feed of oil into the gap between the inner shaft and the outer shaft at a more suitable location in order at the same time to sufficiently supply the cam adjusting device with oil from the gap.

This object is achieved proceeding from an adjustable camshaft as claimed in claim in conjunction with the characterizing features. Advantageous developments of the invention are specified in the dependent claims.

The invention includes the technical teaching that the second cam is sealed at least partially against the outer shaft by means of at least one sealing element.

The invention proceeds from the concept of minimizing as far as possible the outflow of oil from the gap between the inner shaft and the outer shaft for the supply of oil of the region between the rotatable second cams and the outer side of the outer shaft with the result that a sufficient quantity of oil can pass to the cam adjusting device even in the case of a feed location of the oil into the gap which feed location is at a distance from the cam adjusting device. Nevertheless lubrication of the mounting of the movable cam on the outer shaft can be maintained.

As a result of the embodiment according to the invention of the adjustable camshaft a cam adjusting device can be arranged on the end side of the camshaft in order to adjust the phase between the inner shaft and the outer shaft which cam adjusting device can be supplied with a sufficient quantity of oil from the gap. The outer shaft of the camshaft can be mounted by way of at least one camshaft bearing in the cylinder head a plurality of camshaft bearings which are spaced apart from one another preferably being provided in order to mount the camshaft completely over its length. Here oil can be fed via at least one oil feed bore from one of the camshaft bearings into the gap.

According to one particularly advantageous variant the camshaft bearing can be arranged with the oil feed bore for feeding oil into the gap on a side of the adjustable second cam which side faces away from the cam adjusting device with the result that the oil supply of the cam adjusting device can take place past the adjustable second cam. Here the adjustable second cam can form the first adjusting cam which adjoins the cam adjusting device and the pressure loss of the oil in the gap between the inner shaft and the outer shaft is so low or is even eliminated by way of the arrangement according to the invention of sealing elements between the second cam and the outer side of the outer shaft such that sufficient oil can pass to the cam adjusting device even if oil is fed via a camshaft bearing which is arranged at a distance. For example the feeding of oil can take place via an end camshaft bearing which mounts the camshaft in the cylinder head on that side of said camshaft which faces away from the cam adjusting device. As a result of the substantially pressure tight configuration of the mounting of the rotatable second cam on the outer side of the outer shaft the pressure loss over the length of the camshaft is so minimal that sufficient oil can pass to the cam adjusting device even in the case of said feeding of oil at a distance.

According to one particularly advantageous embodiment of the adjustable camshaft a camshaft bearing can be arranged between the adjustable second cam which forms the first adjusting cam adjacently with respect to the cam adjusting device and the cam adjusting device itself which camshaft bearing is configured so as to be closed with respect to the gap between the inner shaft and the outer shaft. The camshaft bearing which adjoins the cam adjusting device therefore forms a simple camshaft bearing without an oil supply of complicated construction for feeding oil into the gap between the inner shaft and the outer shaft. In particular the arrangement adjacently with respect to the cam adjusting device of a bearing of simple configuration for rotatably receiving the camshaft in the cylinder head simplifies the structural configuration of the connection between the cam adjusting device and the inner shaft and the outer shaft.

In order to connect the second cam which can be rotated on the outer shaft to the inner shaft a pin can be provided which extends transversely with respect to the rotational axis of the camshaft. Here the pin can be pressed into the inner shaft with the result that the ends of the pin extend through the outer shaft into the second cam. If the inner shaft rotates with respect to the outer shaft the pin pivots in pin openings which are made in the outer shaft and extend in an elongate manner in the circumferential direction. The pressurized oil in the gap between the inner shaft and the outer shaft fills the pin openings in the process and passes via them into the region between the rotatable second cam and the outer shaft. As a consequence the oil duct is formed for conducting the oil from the gap into the region by means of pin openings. In particular two pin openings which lie opposite one another can be made in the outer shaft and the pin is received in the second cam via both ends diametrically with respect to the rotational axis of the camshaft.

According to one development of the adjustable camshaft two sealing elements can be provided which seal the region between the second cam and the outer shaft toward both axial edge sides. For example a first sealing element can seal the first edge region in a first axial direction of the camshaft and a further sealing element can seal the second edge region in a second axial direction of the camshaft. As a consequence the region between the two sealing elements is supplied with oil via the oil duct. The sealing elements can be introduced for example on the inner side in a cam bore in the adjustable cam or the sealing elements are inserted in the outer side of the outer shaft and a plain bearing face for receiving the second cam on the outer side of the outer shaft is formed between the two sealing elements.

The sealing element which seals the second cam against the outer shaft can be formed from steel from a non ferrous metal or for example from a plastic such as PTFE POM or from rubber. In particular the sealing element can be configured as an O ring or can have a configuration which is slotted that is to say which is not closed in an annular manner. The second cam which is received on the outer shaft and can be rotated on the latter has a cam bore through which the outer shaft runs and the region between the second cam and the outer shaft is formed between the cam bore and the outer side of the outer shaft. The sealing element can therefore be seated on the inner side in the cam bore or the sealing element is arranged laterally on the second cam with the result that said sealing element seals the cam bore against the outer side of the outer shaft. The sealing element can also be configured in one piece with the cam for example formed from an inwardly configured extension or section of the cam bore or the sealing element is formed by a metal ring which is inserted on the inner side in the cam bore for example formed by a brass ring.

According to a further improvement of the camshaft according to the invention at least one sealing ring can be arranged between the inner shaft and the outer shaft the arrangement of a first sealing ring being provided on that side of the camshaft bearing which faces away from the arrangement of the cam adjusting device which camshaft bearing is configured with at least one oil feed bore. Here the sealing ring can be configured in such a way that oil in the gap between the inner shaft and the outer shaft cannot pass the sealing ring in the axial direction. A particularly advantageous arrangement of the sealing ring arises if it is provided on that side of the camshaft bearing which faces away from the arrangement of the cam adjusting device which camshaft bearing is configured with at least one oil feed bore. A plurality of fluidically separated supply segments can therefore be produced distributed over the length of the camshaft for supplying with oil from the gap between the inner shaft and the outer shaft the segment which faces the cam adjusting device at the same time supplying the cam adjusting device itself.

It is furthermore advantageous that the sealing element can be configured in such a way that a small oil flow remains from the region between the second cam and the outer shaft into the installation surroundings of the camshaft it being possible for example for the installation surroundings to be formed by the receiving space in the cylinder head of an internal combustion engine. However the oil flow through the sealing elements can be of such a low magnitude that nevertheless a sufficient oil transport is maintained through the gap from the at least one oil feed bore of a camshaft bearing to the cam adjusting device.

For example the sealing element can comprise a metal seal and can have a residual gap between the cam bore in the second cam and the outer side of the outer shaft through which residual gap the small oil flow is generated. This ensures that an oil exchange takes place in the sliding gap between the cam bore and the outer shaft in order to supply said sliding gap continuously with fresh oil.

Further embodiments will be described in greater detail in the following text together with the attached drawing figures.

The camshaft has an outer shaft on which two first cams are arranged in the detail which is shown the first cams being connected fixedly to the outer shaft so as to rotate with it for example by said first cams being pressed onto the outer shaft or being welded to the outer shaft. An inner shaft extends through the outer shaft and a second cam is shown which is connected fixedly via a pin to the inner shaft so as to rotate with it. The second cam has a cam bore through which the outer shaft extends with the result that the second cam is mounted rotatably on the outer shaft . If the inner shaft rotates with respect to the outer shaft by the cam adjusting device being activated the phase position of the second cam is displaced with respect to the phase position of the first cam . As a result the control times of a valve gear of the internal combustion engine can be varied while the camshaft rotates about its rotational axis .

An annular gap is formed between the outer shaft and the inner shaft and the gap is filled with pressurized oil. The oil is guided via a camshaft bearing into the gap and a first camshaft bearing is shown for mounting the camshaft in the cylinder head which first camshaft bearing is arranged at a distance from the cam adjusting device and a further camshaft bearing is arranged so as to adjoin the cam adjusting device . The camshaft bearing which is arranged at a distance from the cam adjusting device has oil feed bores through which oil is conducted into the gap between the outer shaft and the inner shaft . Two oil feed bores which lie opposite one another and are shown in section are shown here and a plurality of oil feed bores can be provided distributed over the circumference which oil feed bores are connected fluidically to one another by way of an annular gap . The oil which is introduced into the gap can flow in the direction of the cam adjusting device with the result that the oil passes the region of the second cam without an appreciable pressure loss and at the same time supplies said region with oil for lubrication.

Oil ducts are formed by the pin openings which are made in the outer shaft and through which the end sides of the pin are guided and oil can be conducted through the oil ducts from the gap into the region between the second cam and the outer shaft . Said region arises between the outer side of the outer shaft and the cam bore in the second cam .

In order to prevent oil from passing from the region between the second cam and the outer shaft into the installation surroundings of the camshaft which results in a pressure loss in the gap when the oil passes through the gap past the second cam it is provided according to the invention that the second cam is sealed at least partially against the outer shaft by means of sealing elements . This achieves a situation where no pressure loss or only a small pressure loss is produced when the oil passes past the second cam and the cam adjusting device can be supplied with oil by a camshaft bearing which is arranged at a distance therefrom according to the arrangement which is shown. The sealing elements are shown as O rings by way of example and are inserted on the inner side in the cam bore in the second cam .

In order to prevent an outflow of the oil through the gap into the further course of the camshaft a sealing ring is arranged in the region of the camshaft bearing adjacently with respect to the oil feed bores which sealing ring is arranged in the inner shaft and can be formed for example by way of an O ring. As a result an oil supply system is provided over that section of the camshaft which is shown which oil supply system is based on oil being fed into the gap via oil feed bores which are arranged at a distance from the cam adjusting device which oil subsequently passes the arrangement of the second cam and supplies the cam adjusting device which is arranged on the end side of the camshaft with oil as is indicated by way of arrows.

In terms of its embodiment the invention is not restricted to the preferred exemplary embodiment which is specified in the preceding text. Rather a number of variants are conceivable which make use of the described solution even in the case of embodiments of a fundamentally different type. All of the features and or advantages which are apparent from the claims the description or the drawings including structural details or spatial arrangements can be essential to the invention both per se and in a very wide range of combinations.

