---

title: Constructing travel itineraries from tagged geo-temporal photographs
abstract: One embodiment accesses two or more photos taken by one or more travelers at one or more destinations and one or more points-of-interest located within the destinations; constructs one or more photo streams for each unique traveler-destination combination, wherein each one of the photo streams comprises two or more of the photos taken by the corresponding traveler at the corresponding destination; maps each one of the photos to one of the points-of-interest; constructs one or more timed paths for each unique traveler-destination combination based on the photo streams and the mapping between the photos and the points-of-interest, wherein each one of the timed paths comprises one or more of the points-of-interest located within the corresponding destination and visited by the corresponding travel; and constructs an itinerary based on a start point-of-interest, an end point-of-interest, a time constraint, and the timed paths.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09151618&OS=09151618&RS=09151618
owner: Yahoo! Inc.
number: 09151618
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131115
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 630 680 filed Sep. 28 2012 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 594 925 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 708 321 filed Feb. 18 2010 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 285 483 the entire content of both of which is incorporated herein by reference.

For any traveler traveling to any destination the traveler or someone connected with the traveler typically plan and prepare an itinerary for the trip. However travel itinerary planning is often a difficult and time consuming task especially for a traveler visiting a destination for the first time. Often planning a travel itinerary involves substantial research to identify points of interest POIs at the destination worth visiting the time worth spending at each POI and the time it may take to travel from one POI to another POI. Without any prior knowledge one must rely on travel books personal travel blogs or a combination of online resources and services such as travel guides map services public transportation sites and human intelligence to piece together an itinerary.

All these options have shortcomings. Travel books do not cover all cities and locations and perhaps more importantly are not free. Personal travel blogs reflect individual person s view with no guarantees provided over the writer s experience or the amount of preparation invested in planning the trip. Finally compiling an itinerary by selecting individual POIs and researching their to s and fro s is a task that is both time consuming and requires significant research expertise.

Particular embodiments access two or more photos wherein each one of the photos is associated with a location and a time at which the photo is taken and taken by one of one or more travelers while visiting one of one or more destinations and one or more points of interest wherein each one of the points of interest is located within one of the destinations. Particular embodiments construct one or more photo streams for each unique traveler destination combination wherein each one of the photo streams comprises two or more of the photos taken by the corresponding traveler at the corresponding destination and ordered according to the respective times at which the photos are taken. Particular embodiments map each one of the photos to one of the points of interest. Particular embodiments construct one or more timed paths for each unique traveler destination combination based on the photo streams and the mapping between the photos and the points of interest wherein each one of the timed paths comprises one or more of the points of interest located within the corresponding destination for each one of the points of interest located within the corresponding destination a visit time representing a first amount of time the corresponding traveler spends at the point of interest and for each one of one or more pairs of points of interest located within the corresponding destination a transit time representing a second amount of time it takes the corresponding traveler to travel from a first one of the pair of points of interest to a second one of the pair of points of interest. Particular embodiments construct an itinerary based on a start point of interest an end point of interest a time constraint and the timed paths.

These and other features aspects and advantages of the disclosure are described in more detail below in the detailed description and in conjunction with the following figures.

The present disclosure is now described in detail with reference to a few embodiments thereof as illustrated in the accompanying drawings. In the following description numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present disclosure. It is apparent however to one skilled in the art that the present disclosure may be practiced without some or all of these specific details. In other instances well known process steps and or structures have not been described in detail in order not to unnecessarily obscure the present disclosure. In addition while the disclosure is described in conjunction with the particular embodiments it should be understood that this description is not intended to limit the disclosure to the described embodiments. To the contrary the description is intended to cover alternatives modifications and equivalents as may be included within the spirit and scope of the disclosure as defined by the appended claims.

With the advancement of digital photography and the rapid rise of rich media sharing sites such as Flickr http www.flickr.com and Picasa Web Albums http picasaweb.google.com millions of travelers are now sharing their travel experiences through rich media data such as photographs. More interestingly users are increasingly associating shared media with rich contextual information. Flickr photos for example are usually time stamped by the date and time of when they were taken. Furthermore they are often tagged with geographical information e.g. latitudes and longitudes on where the photos were taken which may be mapped to specific POIs. Even more frequently the photos are associated with textual metadata such as tags titles notes and descriptions. Such shared photos may be seen as billions of geo temporal breadcrumbs that may promisingly serve as a latent source reflecting the trips of millions of travelers.

Particular embodiments may take advantage of the rich information provided by these shared photos together with their associated metadata and automatically construct travel itineraries and more importantly travel itineraries at a large scale from these breadcrumbs i.e. the information that may be extracted from the photos and their metadata . For example by analyzing these breadcrumbs associated with a traveler s photo stream particular embodiments may deduce the cities visited by the traveler which POIs that traveler took photos at how long that traveler spent at each POI and what the transit time was between POIs visited in succession. By aggregating such timed paths of many travelers particular embodiments may construct itineraries that reflect the wisdom of the touring crowds. Each such itinerary may be comprised of a sequence of POIs with recommended visit times and approximate transit times between them.

In particular embodiments for any trip there may be one or more destinations. A destination may be for example and without limitation a country a state a county a city a national park or a mountain range. Within each destination there may be one or more POIs. A POI may be for example and without limitation a park a museum a monument a zoo a natural site a historical site a religious site or a shopping area. Particular embodiments contemplate any applicable types of destinations and POIs. To simplify the discussion is described using cities as an example type for destinations. Thus there may be one or more POIs within each city. However the same concept may be applied to any type of destination.

For clarification purposes hereafter let P p p . . . p denote a set of photos U u u . . . u denote the owners also referred to as users of the photos and C c c . . . c denote a set of cities which is used as an example set of destinations where n1 n2 and n3 may be any positive integer. Note that a user or an owner may also be a traveler who has taken the photos and thus in the context of the present disclosure the terms user owner and traveler may be used interchangeably. In particular embodiments each photo p P may be described by one or more attributes. For example and without limitation for a given p umay identify the owner of p ttand tumay indicate when p was taken and shared on a website e.g. Flickr respectively i.e. temporal information latand long if available may indicate where in terms of latitude and longitude p was taken e.g. geographical or geo information and . . . where n4 may be any positive integer may be the set of tags associated with p. For example a photo of the Eiffel Tower in Paris may be tagged with Tour Eiffel Eiffel Tower Architecture Paris Travel . In particular embodiments each city c C may have a set of POIs denoted as L l l . . . l where n5 may be any positive integer. In particular embodiments each POI l Lmay be described by one or more attributes. For example and without limitation namemay uniquely identify l Cityis the city to which l belong i.e. the city within which l is located latand longare the latitude and longitude of l.

Sometimes a website e.g. Flickr may allow its users to organize their photos into photo sets where each photo set may include one or more related photos. Often users may group travel related photos into such photo sets with each photo set devoted to a particular trip or destination. In addition users may associate descriptive tags to a photo set. In particular embodiments the tags associated with a photo set are propagated to all the photos within the photo set.

Given these fundamental concepts particular embodiments may construct photo streams for individual destinations from the set of photos step . In particular embodiments for each destination e.g. a city one or more photo streams may be constructed from the set of photos e.g. set of photos . In particular embodiments a photo stream may include one or more photos of the same destination and taken by the same tourist during the same trip and arranged in the order of the time that these photos were taken. In particular embodiments photos of different destinations from different trips or taken by different tourists form different photo streams. Of course people often travel in groups. It is not uncommon that several people e.g. friends or families may travel to a destination together and at the destination they may in turn take photos of each other or for each other. When they return home one person may upload all the photos of the trip to a website regardless of which person actually has taken which photo. As a result all the photos may appear to be associated with this person. For the purpose of the present disclosure particular embodiments may assume that the person who has posted a photo is the person who has taken the photo.

When constructing photo streams for any given destination particular embodiments may consider several issues. For example particular embodiments may need to identify from the set of photos those individual photos that are associated with the destination and are owned by tourists. Conversely particular embodiments my need to prune irrelevant photos that are not associated with the destination or not owned by tourists. For example given a city c pruning away irrelevant photos may involve several tasks. First particular embodiments may identify from the set of photos those individual photos that are likely to be taken within the city. Second particular embodiments may identify from the owners of the photos those owners who are likely to be tourists visiting the city as opposed to for example residents of the city. Third particular embodiments may remove from those photos that have identified as likely being taken within the city the photos whose stored photo taken time may be inaccurate.

To identify the photos of the city c particular embodiments may leverage the semantic tags associated with the individual photos. Particular embodiments may collect a set of names of the city including its proper name and various popular variants denoted as Name. Particular embodiments may use the following RULE 1 to associated photos with the city as follows.

RULE 1 Photo City Association . A photo p is associated with the city c if p s set of tags including any tags propagated from the photo set to which p belongs contains at least one tag matching any name variant in Name.

For example New York City may be referred to as New York NYC Manhattan the big apple etc. which collectively form Namefor New York City. Any photo whose tags include one of these name variants is considered to be associated with New York City. Note that particular embodiments do not tap the geo information of the photos at this stage as experiments indicate that it does not significantly improve the city photo association and yet may be far more costly to compute. Of course alternative embodiments may use the geo information of the photos to determine in which city the photos have been taken.

To distinguish tourists visiting a city and residents of the city particular embodiments may rely on the observation that with respect to POIs city residents often exhibit different visiting patterns from typical tourists. For example city residents usually are not under pressure to visit many POIs within a time constraint. Thus travel itineraries generated from patterns derived from residents are not likely to be useful for tourists. To address this problem particular embodiments may adopt the technique described in by Fabien Girardin Filippo Dal Fiore Carlo Ratti and Josep Blat Journal of Location Based Services 2 1 41 54 2008. Particular embodiments may implement the following heuristic RULE 2 

RULE 2 Tourist User . A user u i.e. a owner of one or more photos is considered as a tourist of the city c if the span of the photo taken times between u s first and last photos in c is no more than n days. That is u is considered as a tourist visiting c if the first photo taken by u in c and the last photo taken by u in c is no more than n days apart.

Particular embodiments may determine the value of n based on experiments. For example n may be empirically set to 21. The assumption here is that while most tourists concentrate their visits within a short time period from several days to a couple of weeks residents will take pictures of the city over a much longer period of time. Particular embodiments may also enforce that a user visits at least two POIs of c to be considered as a tourist. In particular embodiments once a user u is identified as a non tourist to a city c all of u s photos associated with c may be eliminated for the purpose of constructing photo streams for c.

Constructing itineraries with accurate predictions of visit and transit times requires the photos to have reliable timestamps which in particular embodiments may be verified by the following RULE 3.

RULE 3 Accurate Photo taken time . A photo p is considered to have an accurate photo taken time ttif its minutes and seconds are different from those of its upload time tu. Particular embodiments may require both timestamps to be at the resolution of 1 second. Moreover if the minutes and seconds of ttand tudo match p is considered to have an accurate photo taken time if ttand tuare more than 24 hours apart.

Intuitively differences in the seconds or minutes of ttand tueliminate the possibility that the photo taken time ttis set by default to the up load time tu which is a practice adopted by some media sharing websites e.g. Flickr whenever the photo taken time information is missing. The 24 hour rule may be used to recover photos mistakenly eliminated in the first round i.e. according to the first part of RULE 3 due to for example the time zone differences. In particular embodiments if a photo does not have an accurate photo taken time according to RULE 3 it is ignored for the rest of the process.

Particular embodiments may then group all photos that satisfy all three rules by owner destination or owner trip destination and within each unique combination of owner trip destination sort the photos according their photo taken times. The result is a collection of photo streams S one for each unique combination of owner trip and destination.

As indicated above each photo stream includes photos of a particular destination taken by a particular tourist during a particular trip. Typically during each trip a tourist may take successive photos of various POIs at a destination and as described in more detail below metadata associated with the photos in each photo stream may be used to extract information concerning how much time the tourist has spent at each POI i.e. visiting time of a POI and how much time it has taken the tourist to travel from one POI to another POI i.e. transit time between two POIs . During a particular trip a tourist may spend multiple days at the same destination visiting multiple POIs e.g. a few POIs each day . At the end of each day the tourist may return to his temporary lodging at the destination e.g. a hotel and rest. While the tourist returns to his hotel to rest each night it is unlikely that the tourist has taken any photo while sleeping. Thus there may be a gap in time between the last photo taken during a first day and the first photo taken during a second day. To avoid this time gap being mistakenly construed as the transit time between the last POI the tourist has visited during the first day and the first POI the tourist has visited during the second day particular embodiments may examine the gap between the photo taken time of the photos within each photo stream and if there is a sufficiently long gap between two successive photos e.g. more than 8 hours 12 hours 24 hours or 48 hours particular embodiments may divide the photo streams into two separate photo streams.

For those photos that have been identified as associated with destinations and owned by tourists particular embodiments may map them to the POIs of the destinations step . Particular embodiments may for each destination extract its POIs and associate individual photos with the POIs i.e. photo POI association . illustrates several example photos mapped to several example POIs. Typically each photo may be mapped to one POI and several photos may be mapped to the same POI .

The POIs of a destination may be extracted from various sources and particular embodiments contemplate any applicable sources. For example many websites such as Yahoo Travel http travel.yahoo.com or Lonely Planet http travel.lonelyplanet.com list attractions and POIs for many cities. Particular embodiments may rely on these websites to extract the set of popular land marks attractions tourist sites etc. collectively as a set of POIs L for a given city. Furthermore particular embodiments may employ the publicly available Yahoo Maps API http developer.yahoo.com maps to extract the geo locations e.g. latitudes and longitudes of these POIs. Geo locations are returned when querying the Yahoo Maps API with the names of the POIs.

Given geo information of the POIs there may be alternative methods to map a photo to a particular POI including geo based or tag based methods. The geo based mapping relies on matching the photo s geo location to the POI s geo location and the tag based mapping relies on matching the photo s tags to the names of the POIs. Intuitively the geo based mapping may be a more desirable method especially for large and distinctive POIs that are often photographed from afar e.g. the Golden Gate Bridge in San Francisco . Otherwise particular embodiments may associate a photo with the POI appearing in its textual tags even when the photo was actually taken from far away. This may be misleading when computing the visit and transit times of that POI.

If a photo has geo information particular embodiments may associate a geo located photo p to a POI l Lwhenever l is the POI closest to p and p was taken within distance of l. For example may be set to 100 meters. Unfortunately not all photos have associated geo information. Thus if a photo does not have geo information particular embodiments may apply tag based matching as a secondary measure. Given a photo tag and the name of a POI particular embodiments may compute the similarity between the two based on their trigram set similarity. Particular embodiments thus associate a photo p to a l Lwhenever l has the highest similarity with any tag of p among all the POIs in L. Particular embodiments may require that the similarity satisfy a threshold requirement.

The overall POI association process according to particular embodiments is depicted in ALGORITHM 1. It augments the previously identified individual photo streams Swith associated POI information to produce the POI photo stream S.

Particular embodiments may construct timed paths among the POIs step . In particular embodiments each timed path may include one or more POIs and the visit time for each POI and the transit time for each pair of POIs. The visit time for a POI may be the average time a tourist may spend visiting the POI. The transit time for a pair of POIs may be the average time it takes a tourist to travel from one POI to the other POI.

A timed path may be represented graphically. illustrates four example timed paths . For each timed path the nodes represent the POIs and each node is associated with an average visit time. Two nodes i.e. two POIs may be connected with an edge which is associated with an average transit time.

From step for a given tourist i.e. user trip and destination e.g. city all the photos may be arranged according to their photo taken time to form a photo stream. However the information provided by such photo streams may not be readily useful as within a photo stream successive i.e. adjacent photos may have been taken on different days and thus their corresponding POIs may have been visited by the user on different days. To address this issue particular embodiments may segment each photo stream into sub streams using a simple heuristic the photo stream may be split whenever the time difference between two successive photos tt tt is greater than some threshold . For example based on experiments may be set to 8 hours. Consequently if a photo stream contains two successive photos that are more than apart the photo stream is segmented into two sub streams. In particular embodiments each sub stream containing only photos from a single POI or containing less than number of photos e.g. 3 may be discarded as such sub streams cannot reliably contribute to the computation of visit and transit times. The remaining sub streams may then be used to construct the timed paths.

In constructing timed paths particular embodiments may rely on the notion of a timed visit defined as follows.

DEFINITION 1 Timed Visit . Let l Lbe a POI of a city c. A timed visit at l is the triplet l t t where tis the start time at l tis the end time at l and t t.

Particular embodiments may construct timed visits at l from maximal subsequences of photos associated with l in a photo stream or a photo sub stream. The photo taken time stamp of the first photo associated with l in the subsequence determines t while that of the last photo associated with l in the subsequence determines t. A timed visit implies a lower bound on the actual time spent by the particular user at that POI since the start and end times represent the earliest time and the latest time that a photo was taken at the POI and not the actual times of arrival at and departure from the POI.

DEFINITION 2 Timed Path . A sequence of timed visits TP l t t . . . l t t is called a timed path for city c whenever t

In particular embodiments timed paths are induced by the sequence of timed visits derived from a photo stream or sub stream. Transit times imply an upper bound on the time it took for the particular user to move from one POI to another POI. The following ALGORITHM 2 illustrates the generation of timed paths according to particular embodiments.

Given a start POI at a destination an end POI at the destination and a time constraint i.e. the total time to be spent at the destination particular embodiments may automatically construct an itinerary using the timed paths step . The start POI end POI and time constraint may be specified by a traveler or there may be default start POI end POI and time constraint for a particular destination. Given the set of timed paths the goal in particular embodiments is to aggregate the actions of many individual travelers into coherent itineraries while taking into consideration POI popularity. To this effect particular embodiments may define a full undirected graph G V L E L L on which the following predicates are defined 

In particular embodiments P l L is the popularity of each POI l in L i.e. the number of distinct users who visited l . In particular embodiments POIs visited by less than 10 users may be removed.

In particular embodiments T l L is the visit time at each POI l in L. Different people may stay for different durations at a POI for many reasons some of which transcend the value of the landmark itself e.g. they may stop for a meal there . Moreover a single user may visit a POI multiple times each with a different visit time. Particular embodiments may take the longest visit of each user u at a POI as u s visit time and set T l L to be the visit time closest to for example the 75th percentile among all users. This heuristic may overcome much of the noise and compensates for the fact that the visit times measured are only lower bounds on the real visit times.

In particular embodiments E e E is the median or average transit time between each pair of LPOIs in L. Each timed path may contribute multiple transit times between the same pair of points. The median or average then is calculated over the set of all transit times collected from all timed paths. In particular embodiments edges with a single or no transit in the data may be assigned a transit time of infinity. More specifically in particular embodiments the transmit time between each pair of POIs may be calculated using a two step process. First for each pair of POIs and each traveler the median or average transmit time between the two POIs may be calculated for the individual traveler. Note that a traveler may travel between the same two POIs multiple times. Second for each pair of POIs the median or average transmit time between the two POIs may be calculated for all the travelers. For each pair of POIs the final median or average transmit time obtained from the two step calculation may be used as the transmit time between the two POIs.

In particular embodiments V l L is the prize or value that an itinerary gets from visiting each POI l in L which may be a function of the popularity and visit duration of l. The dependency on the visit duration is required in particular embodiments to prevent bias towards POIs with short visit durations. Particular embodiments may set the prize to be the product of the popularity and the visit duration.

Note that while theoretically transit times should obey the triangle inequality this may not be the case with the transit times empirically collected. To overcome this difficulty and enforce the triangle inequality particular embodiments may apply metric completion on G. The drawback of metric completion in some cases is that an erroneous short transit duration at one edge can propagate to many other edges. Filtering nodes may reduce the effect of this drawback. To further reduce it particular embodiments may ignore transit times of edges for which fewer than a certain number of transitions X were recorded.

In particular embodiments an itinerary is a path in the graph G where a node i.e. POI in the path may be visited more than once. Let I be an itinerary its prize V I may be defined as the sum of prizes of the unique set of POIs i.e. a POI s prize is counted only once even if it is visited multiple times along the path i.e. the itinerary . The time T I of the itinerary is the sum of visit times to the unique set of POIs along the path plus the transit times along all edges on the path including those that are traversed more than once. The intuition behind counting prize and visit time only once for POIs visited multiple times is that one might pass through a POI several times always paying the transit time but spending visit time there to view the place only once. However since Gsatisfies the triangle inequality particular embodiments may assume without loss of generality that an itinerary is a simple path. Under this assumption T I becomes the sum of visit times of its nodes plus the transit times of its edges.

Given the definitions above particular embodiments may formulate the Itinerary Mining Problem IMP as follows.

Instance A graph G L E with edge costs transit times T e e E obeying the triangle inequality time budget B node prizes V l l L node costs visit times T l l L and two nodes s t L.

The Itinerary Mining Problem is NP Hard which may be proved by a reduction from the Hamiltonian Path problem. Note that IMP is closely related to the well studied NP Hard Orienteering problem. In the Orienteering problem there are only edge costs no node costs and its classic formulation is over undirected graphs. A common extension of the Orienteering problem specifies a time window for visiting each node. A node v then contributes to the prize collected by a path only if the path reaches v within its time window. Time windows help model recommended visit times of POIs. In this regard there is an incomparable approximation ratio of

Typically the above algorithms all have large time complexity in practice O n or worse. In a different approach a quasi polynomial recursive greedy approximation algorithm may be used for Orienteering whose approximation ratio is log k 1 where k is the length of the optimal path in terms of nodes. This approximation ratio is appealing in the present context as a reasonable itinerary is expected to visit only a relatively few POIs each day. By imposing an upper bound on k the time complexity of the algorithm may be reduced to O 2 nA log B . Moreover the algorithm is highly extensible.

As mentioned above the major difference between IMP and the Orienteering problem is that IMP includes node costs. Hence particular embodiments may reduce IMP to the directed Orienteering problem by adding T l to the cost of each edge entering l. The idea of the recursive greedy algorithm is to guess the middle node v of the path and the amount of prize collected by the path in the first half i.e. up to node v . The algorithm then determines how much budget has to be invested in the first half to collect the guessed prize and calls itself recursively on both halves of the path. The second call is not allowed to use the nodes that belong to the first half of the path returned by the first call.

An extension of the recursive greedy algorithm for Orienteering RG QP allows it to produce multi day or more specifically multi part itineraries. The idea is to supply the algorithm with multiple triplets comprised of start point i.e. start POI end point i.e. end POI and time allowance i.e. time constraint . Each triplet represents a part and corresponds to the parameters s t and B of the IMP formulation above. Typically the end point of triplet j would be the start point of triplet j 1 representing the location where a tourist may spend a night. In a multi day stay in a city those may all be the tourist s hotel. In particular embodiments a multi day itinerary is considered valid if it is the concatenation of sub itineraries that connect the source and destination nodes of the triplets while respecting the corresponding time allowance.

A limitation of this approach for automatically constructing itineraries for road trips as opposed to multi day city stays may be the need to specify as input to the algorithm the layover points . Particular embodiments may either mine recommended layover spots from user data or to have the algorithm reach eligible layovers at certain intervals e.g. every 9 10 trip hours .

Although has been described with respect to photographs as a specific example of geo temporally tagged rich media objects the same concept may be applied to any kind of geo temporally tagged rich media objects. A set of such objects may be obtained from any suitable sources whether public or private.

Particular embodiments may be implemented in a network environment. illustrates an example network environment . Network environment includes a network coupling one or more servers and one or more clients to each other. In particular embodiments network is an intranet an extranet a virtual private network VPN a local area network LAN a wireless LAN WLAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN a communications network a satellite network a portion of the Internet or another network or a combination of two or more such networks . The present disclosure contemplates any suitable network .

One or more links couple servers or clients to network . In particular embodiments one or more links each includes one or more wired wireless or optical links . In particular embodiments one or more links each includes an intranet an extranet a VPN a LAN a WLAN a WAN a MAN a communications network a satellite network a portion of the Internet or another link or a combination of two or more such links . The present disclosure contemplates any suitable links coupling servers and clients to network .

In particular embodiments each server may be a unitary server or may be a distributed server spanning multiple computers or multiple datacenters. Servers may be of various types such as for example and without limitation web server news server mail server message server advertising server file server application server exchange server database server or proxy server. In particular embodiments each server may include hardware software or embedded logic components or a combination of two or more such components for carrying out the appropriate functionalities implemented or supported by server . For example a web server is generally capable of hosting websites containing web pages or particular elements of web pages. More specifically a web server may host HTML files or other file types or may dynamically create or constitute files upon a request and communicate them to clients in response to HTTP or other requests from clients . A mail server is generally capable of providing electronic mail services to various clients . A database server is generally capable of providing an interface for managing data stored in one or more data stores.

In particular embodiments each client may be an electronic device including hardware software or embedded logic components or a combination of two or more such components and capable of carrying out the appropriate functionalities implemented or supported by client . For example and without limitation a client may be a desktop computer system a notebook computer system a netbook computer system a handheld electronic device or a mobile telephone. A client may enable an network user at client to access network . A client may have a web browser such as Microsoft Internet Explorer or Mozilla Firefox and may have one or more add ons plug ins or other extensions such as Google Toolbar or Yahoo Toolbar. A client may enable its user to communicate with other users at other clients . The present disclosure contemplates any suitable clients .

In particular embodiments one or more data storages may be communicatively linked to one or more servers via one or more links . In particular embodiments data storages may be used to store various types of information. In particular embodiments the information stored in data storages may be organized according to specific data structures. Particular embodiments may provide interfaces that enable servers or clients to manage e.g. retrieve modify add or delete the information stored in data storage . In particular embodiments the photos may be stored in data storage .

Particular embodiments may be implemented on one or more computer systems. illustrates an example computer system . In particular embodiments one or more computer systems perform one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. In particular embodiments one or more computer systems provide functionality described or illustrated herein. In particular embodiments software running on one or more computer systems performs one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein or provides functionality described or illustrated herein. Particular embodiments include one or more portions of one or more computer systems .

This disclosure contemplates any suitable number of computer systems . This disclosure contemplates computer system taking any suitable physical form. As example and not by way of limitation computer system may be an embedded computer system a system on chip SOC a single board computer system SBC such as for example a computer on module COM or system on module SOM a desktop computer system a laptop or notebook computer system an interactive kiosk a mainframe a mesh of computer systems a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a server or a combination of two or more of these. Where appropriate computer system may include one or more computer systems be unitary or distributed span multiple locations span multiple machines or reside in a cloud which may include one or more cloud components in one or more networks. Where appropriate one or more computer systems may perform without substantial spatial or temporal limitation one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. As an example and not by way of limitation one or more computer systems may perform in real time or in batch mode one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. One or more computer systems may perform at different times or at different locations one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein where appropriate.

In particular embodiments computer system includes a processor memory storage an input output I O interface a communication interface and a bus . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular computer system having a particular number of particular components in a particular arrangement this disclosure contemplates any suitable computer system having any suitable number of any suitable components in any suitable arrangement.

In particular embodiments processor includes hardware for executing instructions such as those making up a computer program. As an example and not by way of limitation to execute instructions processor may retrieve or fetch the instructions from an internal register an internal cache memory or storage decode and execute them and then write one or more results to an internal register an internal cache memory or storage . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal caches for data instructions or addresses. The present disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal caches where appropriate. As an example and not by way of limitation processor may include one or more instruction caches one or more data caches and one or more translation lookaside buffers TLBs . Instructions in the instruction caches may be copies of instructions in memory or storage and the instruction caches may speed up retrieval of those instructions by processor . Data in the data caches may be copies of data in memory or storage for instructions executing at processor to operate on the results of previous instructions executed at processor for access by subsequent instructions executing at processor or for writing to memory or storage or other suitable data. The data caches may speed up read or write operations by processor . The TLBs may speed up virtual address translation for processor . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal registers for data instructions or addresses. The present disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal registers where appropriate. Where appropriate processor may include one or more arithmetic logic units ALUs be a multi core processor or include one or more processors . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular processor this disclosure contemplates any suitable processor.

In particular embodiments memory includes main memory for storing instructions for processor to execute or data for processor to operate on. As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may load instructions from storage or another source such as for example another computer system to memory . Processor may then load the instructions from memory to an internal register or internal cache. To execute the instructions processor may retrieve the instructions from the internal register or internal cache and decode them. During or after execution of the instructions processor may write one or more results which may be intermediate or final results to the internal register or internal cache. Processor may then write one or more of those results to memory . In particular embodiments processor executes only instructions in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere and operates only on data in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere . One or more memory buses which may each include an address bus and a data bus may couple processor to memory . Bus may include one or more memory buses as described below. In particular embodiments one or more memory management units MMUs reside between processor and memory and facilitate accesses to memory requested by processor . In particular embodiments memory includes random access memory RAM . This RAM may be volatile memory where appropriate Where appropriate this RAM may be dynamic RAM DRAM or static RAM SRAM . Moreover where appropriate this RAM may be single ported or multi ported RAM. The present disclosure contemplates any suitable RAM. Memory may include one or more memories where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular memory this disclosure contemplates any suitable memory.

In particular embodiments storage includes mass storage for data or instructions. As an example and not by way of limitation storage may include an HDD a floppy disk drive flash memory an optical disc a magneto optical disc magnetic tape or a Universal Serial Bus USB drive or a combination of two or more of these. Storage may include removable or non removable or fixed media where appropriate. Storage may be internal or external to computer system where appropriate. In particular embodiments storage is non volatile solid state memory. In particular embodiments storage includes read only memory ROM . Where appropriate this ROM may be mask programmed ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable PROM EPROM electrically erasable PROM EEPROM electrically alterable ROM EAROM or flash memory or a combination of two or more of these. This disclosure contemplates mass storage taking any suitable physical form. Storage may include one or more storage control units facilitating communication between processor and storage where appropriate. Where appropriate storage may include one or more storages . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular storage this disclosure contemplates any suitable storage.

In particular embodiments I O interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication between computer system and one or more I O devices. Computer system may include one or more of these I O devices where appropriate. One or more of these I O devices may enable communication between a person and computer system . As an example and not by way of limitation an I O device may include a keyboard keypad microphone monitor mouse printer scanner speaker still camera stylus tablet touchscreen trackball video camera another suitable I O device or a combination of two or more of these. An I O device may include one or more sensors. This disclosure contemplates any suitable I O devices and any suitable I O interfaces for them. Where appropriate I O interface may include one or more device or software drivers enabling processor to drive one or more of these I O devices. I O interface may include one or more I O interfaces where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular I O interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable I O interface.

In particular embodiments communication interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication such as for example packet based communication between computer system and one or more other computer systems or one or more networks. As an example and not by way of limitation communication interface may include a network interface controller NIC or network adapter for communicating with an Ethernet or other wire based network or a wireless NIC WNIC or wireless adapter for communicating with a wireless network such as a WI FI network. This disclosure contemplates any suitable network and any suitable communication interface for it. As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may communicate with an ad hoc network a personal area network PAN a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN or one or more portions of the Internet or a combination of two or more of these. One or more portions of one or more of these networks may be wired or wireless. As an example computer system may communicate with a wireless PAN WPAN such as for example a BLUETOOTH WPAN a WI FI network a WI MAX network a cellular telephone network such as for example a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM network or other suitable wireless network or a combination of two or more of these. Computer system may include any suitable communication interface for any of these networks where appropriate. Communication interface may include one or more communication interfaces where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular communication interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable communication interface.

In particular embodiments bus includes hardware software or both coupling components of computer system to each other. As an example and not by way of limitation bus may include an Accelerated Graphics Port AGP or other graphics bus an Enhanced Industry Standard Architecture EISA bus a front side bus FSB a HYPERTRANSPORT HT interconnect an Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus an INFINIBAND interconnect a low pin count LPC bus a memory bus a Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus a PCI Express PCI X bus a serial advanced technology attachment SATA bus a Video Electronics Standards Association local VLB bus or another suitable bus or a combination of two or more of these. Bus may include one or more buses where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular bus this disclosure contemplates any suitable bus or interconnect.

Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium encompasses one or more non transitory tangible computer readable storage media possessing structure. As an example and not by way of limitation a computer readable storage medium may include a semiconductor based or other integrated circuit IC such as for example a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific IC ASIC a hard disk an HDD a hybrid hard drive HHD an optical disc an optical disc drive ODD a magneto optical disc a magneto optical drive a floppy disk a floppy disk drive FDD magnetic tape a holographic storage medium a solid state drive SSD a RAM drive a SECURE DIGITAL card a SECURE DIGITAL drive or another suitable computer readable storage medium or a combination of two or more of these where appropriate. Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium excludes any medium that is not eligible for patent protection under 35 U.S.C. 101. Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium excludes transitory forms of signal transmission such as a propagating electrical or electromagnetic signal per se to the extent that they are not eligible for patent protection under 35 U.S.C. 101.

This disclosure contemplates one or more computer readable storage media implementing any suitable storage. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements one or more portions of processor such as for example one or more internal registers or caches one or more portions of memory one or more portions of storage or a combination of these where appropriate. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements RAM or ROM. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements volatile or persistent memory. In particular embodiments one or more computer readable storage media embody software. Herein reference to software may encompass one or more applications bytecode one or more computer programs one or more executables one or more instructions logic machine code one or more scripts or source code and vice versa where appropriate. In particular embodiments software includes one or more application programming interfaces APIs . This disclosure contemplates any suitable software written or otherwise expressed in any suitable programming language or combination of programming languages. In particular embodiments software is expressed as source code or object code. In particular embodiments software is expressed in a higher level programming language such as for example C Perl or a suitable extension thereof. In particular embodiments software is expressed in a lower level programming language such as assembly language or machine code . In particular embodiments software is expressed in JAVA. In particular embodiments software is expressed in Hyper Text Markup Language HTML Extensible Markup Language XML or other suitable markup language.

The present disclosure encompasses all changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications to the example embodiments herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. Similarly where appropriate the appended claims encompass all changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications to the example embodiments herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend.

