---

title: Rich personalized communication context
abstract: A method for displaying context information on a user device, the method includes: identifying a triggering event associated with a contact; identifying a user associated with the user device; identifying a personalized configuration profile is based on at least one of an attribute of the contact attribute or an attribute of the user; identifying the context information associated with the personalized configuration profile; and retrieving the context information for displaying on the user device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09430757&OS=09430757&RS=09430757
owner: GENESYS TELECOMMUNICATIONS LABORATORIES, INC.
number: 09430757
owner_city: Daly City
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130313
---
Embodiments of the present invention are directed to systems and methods for providing a rich personalized communication context for engaging with another entity.

Traditionally user to user communication solutions have generally lacked rich personalized communication context. For example in the case of telephony communication in a contact center automatic number identification and more advanced services such as Telnic .tel domain enable the display of limited customer information such as a contact s name phone number address etc. to the agent who is engaged in an interaction with a customer. However the type of data displayed to the servicing agent as well as the source of the data and the viewing layout of the agent s display is often fixed and not customizable based on the communication context and the current role of the communicating parties. Existing solutions to enrich communication experience generally focus on the caller by for example exposing additional contact information of the callee or on the callee by for example providing screen pops to contact center agents. These solutions are also often restricted to a particular media type mainly voice calls.

What is desired is a system and method for a user whether as the initiating or receiving party in any communication context including both enterprise and non enterprise environments to access context information that may be tailored to the communication media used the role of each of the communicating parties the time of the communication and or other context criteria in both live and offline interactions.

According to one embodiment a method for displaying context information on a user device the method may include identifying a triggering event associated with a contact identifying a user associated with the user device identifying a personalized configuration profile is based on at least one of an attribute of the contact attribute or an attribute of the user identifying the context information associated with the personalized configuration profile and retrieving the context information for displaying on the user device.

The contact may be associated with a pre stored record including a plurality of attributes of the contact wherein the pre stored record is accessible to the user device.

The attribute of the contact may include any one of a name a photograph an address a telephone number an email address or a business value.

The attribute of the user may include any one of an identity of the user a role of the user an identification of the user device a geolocation of the user or a confidentiality clearance level.

The detection of the attribute of the contact may be prompted by an incoming communication from the contact or outgoing communication to the contact including voice call voicemail electronic mail chat or SMS.

The personalized configuration profile may include selecting from one or more personalized configuration profiles based on a configuration rule associated with at least one of an attribute of the contact or an attribute of the user.

The configuration rule may be further associated with one or more items including a time parameter a date parameter 

The context information excludes any information having a confidentiality level exceeding the confidentiality clearance level of the user.

The user device may be a dedicated device for displaying the context information and may be different from a device used to interact with the contact.

According to one embodiment of the present invention a system for displaying context information on a user device the system including a processor and a memory wherein the memory has stored thereon instructions that when executed by the processor cause the processor to identify a triggering event associated with a contact identify a user associated with the user device identify a personalized configuration profile based on at least one of an attribute of the contact or an attribute of the user identify the context information associated with the personalized configuration profile and retrieve the context information for displaying on the user device.

The triggering event may include detection of the attribute of the contact prompted by an incoming communication from the contact or outgoing communication to the contact including voice call voicemail electronic mail chat or SMS.

These and other features aspects and advantages of the present invention will be more fully understood when considered with respect to the following detailed description appended claims and accompanying drawings. Of course the actual scope of the invention is defined by the appended claims.

In the following detailed description only certain exemplary embodiments of the present invention are shown and described by way of illustration. As those skilled in the art would recognize the invention may be implemented in many different forms and should not be construed as being limited to the embodiments set forth herein. Like reference numerals designate like elements throughout the specification.

In general terms embodiments of the present invention are directed to a system and method for providing a user customized context rich information pertaining to the party he she is communicating with. The user may be a private user or a business enterprise user. The user may customize personalize the selection and or organization of information displayed as well as the media that the data is displayed upon according to an embodiment of the present invention. In an aspect the information may be presented on the user s device in the form of a customizable dashboard or screen pop. In an illustrative example when a senior management officer e.g. a chief executive officer CEO receives a phone call from a client a personalized dashboard may appear on the officer s device to display for example client contact information such as name of the caller name and type of the client organization position of caller within the organization etc. a summary of the client s relevant public financial data a summary of the business relations with the client including the past dealings nature and length of past dealings sales made or services rendered to the client other relevant information such as regional sales data as well as any personal notes about the client such as upsell potential of the client and or the like. Such information may provide a rich backdrop which the officer may use to effectively engage the client and further the business interests of the officer s organization. In this example the officer may be able to customize the content provided by the dashboard to suit the particular client and create other customizations for other clients or group of clients as may be appropriate. Each customization may be stored in the system as a display profile also referred to as a personalized configuration profile and may be invoked when interacting with the corresponding client s .

According to one embodiment of the present invention the dashboard may be invoked when the device senses a known contact also referred to as a sense or trigger event . For live interactions a trigger may include for example incoming interaction such as a voice call email short message system SMS chat or the like from the contact or user initiated outgoing interactions with the contact. In an off line interaction scenario a trigger may include for example access to archived electronic records of interactions with the contact and or other electronic records that contain a reference to the contact such as documents emails webpages or the like . However according to one embodiment the records may also be in print form in which case a trigger event may occur when the user employs a device such as for example an agent desktop or a smart phone to manually input or select from a list the contact identification. In one embodiment the user may use a device such as a smart phone mobile tablet or PC scanner or the like to digitally capture e.g. scan or take a picture of a tangible document containing a reference to the contact and employ an automatic process such as optical character recognition OCR and or facial recognition to identify the contact and thus invoke a custom dashboard.

According to one embodiment the information provided by the dashboard screen pop may be customized by the user and stored in the system as a display profile personalized configuration profile. In one aspect a user may create more than one profile each customized for use in a particular context. For instance a user may create a different display profile for each of the business roles that he she serves. As an example a supervisor who occasionally also acts as a technical assistance specialist may have separate profiles that he she may use based on the function being served. A user may employ different profiles depending on the type of interaction he she is having with a contact. For example separate display profiles may be used for each of inbound outbound and offline interactions. In one aspect a user may create different display profiles for each of his her display devices. For example the display profile associated with a smartphone might be customized to show less information than that associated with a desktop computer. According to some embodiments time and geographical location may also influence the need for multiple profiles. For example end of fiscal quarter may trigger a sales profile and an interaction occurring in a public location may prompt a public profile that hides sensitive or confidential information from view. According to one embodiment the system may define a standard palette of profiles templates from which the user may choose and further customize as may be necessary.

According to one embodiment the system may automatically display the appropriate profile according to one or more configuration display rules that may be defined based on for example the triggering event the display device used and or circumstances such as time of the trigger event and location of the user. According to one aspect once a dashboard is automatically selected and displayed the user may have the option of selecting a different profile if he she deems fit. According to another embodiment upon detecting a trigger event the system may prompt the user to select a profile from a list of available profiles.

According to an exemplary embodiment the context information screen pop dashboard may be displayed on a device that a user is actively using to interact with the contact or the outside world hereinafter referred to as an interacting device . For example if the user is employing a desktop computer to browse the World Wide Web read emails and or engage in online chat the context information may be displayed on the same computer screen or if user is employing a smartphone or other mobile device the context information may appear on the same mobile device. In another embodiment the dashboard may appear on a dedicated or non dedicated device irrespective of whether it is used as an interacting device or not. For example if the triggering interaction occurs through a desktop computer or a desk phone the dashboard may appear on a smartphone or other device that is designated as the dedicated dashboard device. In one aspect a user who has multiple devices such as a desktop computer smartphone or mobile tablet etc. capable of displaying dashboards may be able to switch from a designated device to another preferred display device for showing the dashboard. In such a case if the switched to device is associated with a particular display profile the system may accordingly update the display profile. In another embodiment upon a triggering event the user may be prompted to select his her device of choice for displaying the customer information in which case the system may automatically select the appropriate display profile for displaying the context information on that device.

According to one embodiment of the present invention information that is displayed by the dashboard may be designated as private or public by the user. Private data may only be viewable by the user and other authorized people while public information may be generally accessible by all users who wish to view the context information. For example most financial data about a client may be made public while personal notes about how to engage a client at the next sales call may be kept private and only viewable by the author user.

According to one aspect of the present invention each piece of context information may be associated with a confidentiality level. Accordingly a user may be granted a confidentiality clearance level permitting the user to access confidential information according to his her clearance level. For example a high level employee such as a vice president of sales or a CEO may assume a higher clearance level than a low level knowledge worker. According to one embodiment the dashboard may adopt a color coding scheme to visually mark confidential information and identify its level of confidentiality. In one aspect the same color scheme may be employed to identify the clearance level of users. In addition to filtering access to information confidentiality classification may for example help inform a user of what data to share with others. For example in a conference call with a client to discuss current business dealings each of the multiple users in attendance may have his her own personalized dashboard displaying relevant client information which may be color coded to indicate the content s level of confidentiality. Additionally all attendees may be able to view the clearance level of all other attendees. In this example the lowest confidentiality clearance level may define the appropriate threshold or cut off point for subjects of discussion.

In addition to concurrent access to context information by multiple users the system may also support concurrent update of contact data by multiple users. For example in the case of a passive user such as contact center administrator monitoring a live interaction between another user e.g. a knowledge worker and a contact any additions to the interaction data such as the agent s disposition notes can be readily pushed to the passive user s display device as updates.

According to one embodiment a user may transfer the context information accessible through his her dashboard to another party. In one aspect a user may select the receiving party s clearance level and any content requiring higher clearance may automatically be stripped before delivery. In one embodiment if the receiving party is an existing user with a known clearance level the system may redact information without the need for the sending user to select the receiving party s clearance level.

The embodiments of the present invention described below may be deployed in an enterprise setting for example a contact center supporting full dashboard capability and or may be available to private users who may access all or a subset of the capabilities described herein through connectivity with back end enterprises components. Those of skill in the art will appreciate however that all or a subset of the components and functionalities described herein may be implemented in a standalone device such a mobile phone or tablet.

According to some exemplary embodiments the contact center includes resources e.g. personnel computers and telecommunication equipment to enable delivery of services via telephone or other communication mechanisms. Such services may vary depending on the type of contact center and may range from customer service to help desk emergency response telemarketing order taking and the like.

Customers potential customers or other external entities desiring to receive services from the contact center may initiate inbound interactions with the contact center via their client devices collectively referenced as . Each of the client devices may be a communication device conventional in the art such as for example a telephone wireless phone smart phone personal computer electronic tablet and or the like. Customers operating the client devices may initiate manage and respond to telephone calls emails chats text messaging web browsing sessions and other multi media transactions. In this regard the client devices may be equipped with a web browser or other like application for accessing information over the World Wide Web.

Inbound and outbound interactions from and to the client devices may traverse a telephone cellular and or data communication network depending on the type of device that is being used. For example the communications network may include a private or public switched telephone network PSTN local area network LAN private wide area network WAN and or public wide area network such as for example the Internet. The communications network may also include a wireless carrier network including a code division multiple access CDMA network global system for mobile communications GSM network and or any 3G or 4G network conventional in the art.

According to one exemplary embodiment the contact center includes a switch media gateway coupled to the communications network for receiving and transmitting calls between customers and the contact center. The switch media gateway may include a telephony switch configured to function as a central switch for agent level routing within the center. In this regard the switch may include an automatic call distributor a private branch exchange PBX an IP based software switch and or any other switch configured to receive Internet sourced calls and or telephone network sourced calls. According to one exemplary embodiment of the invention the switch is coupled to a call server which may for example serve as an adapter or interface between the switch and the remainder of the routing monitoring and other call handling systems of the contact center.

The contact center may also include a multimedia social media server for engaging in media interactions other than voice interactions with the client devices and or web servers . The media interactions may be related for example to email vmail voice mail through email chat video text messaging web social media screen sharing and the like. The web servers may include for example social interaction site hosts for a variety of known social interaction sites to which a customer may subscribe such as for example Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Pinterest and the like. The web servers may also provide web pages for the enterprise that is being supported by the contact center. Customers may browse the web pages and get information about the enterprise s products and services. The web pages may also provide a mechanism for contacting the contact center via for example web chat voice call email web real time communication WebRTC or the like.

According to some exemplary embodiments of the invention the switch is coupled to an interactive voice response IVR server . The IVR server is configured for example with an IVR script for querying customers on their needs. For example a contact center for a bank may tell callers via the IVR script to press 1 if they wish to get an account balance. If this is the case through continued interaction with the IVR customers may complete service without needing to speak with an agent.

If the incoming interaction henceforth referred to as incoming customer activity is to be routed to an agent the call server will interact with a routing server for finding the most appropriate agent for processing the incoming activity. The call server may be configured to process PSTN calls VoIP calls and the like. For example the call server may include a session initiation protocol SIP server for processing SIP calls. According to some exemplary embodiments the call server may for example extract data about the customer interaction such as the caller s telephone number often known as the automatic number identification ANI number or the customer s internet protocol IP address or email address.

In some embodiments the call server may also query a customer database which stores information about existing clients such as contact information service level agreement SLA requirements nature of previous customer contacts and actions taken by contact center to resolve any customer issues and the like. The database may be managed by any database management system conventional in the art such as Oracle IBM DB2 Microsoft SQL server Microsoft Access PostgreSQL MySQL FoxPro and SQLite and may be stored in a mass storage device . The call server may query the customer information from the customer database via an ANI or any other information collected by the IVR . The information may then be relayed to the user device of the agent who is processing the call.

In one example while an agent is being located and until such agent becomes available the call server may place an incoming customer activity in for example a customer activity queue. The activity queue may be implemented via any data structure conventional in the art such as for example a linked list array and or the like. The data structure may be maintained for example in buffer memory provided by the call server .

Once an appropriate agent is available to handle a customer activity the activity may be removed from the customer activity queue and transferred to a corresponding user device collectively referenced as . Collected information about the customer and or the customer s historical information from the customer database may also be provided to the user device for aiding the agent in better servicing the call. In this regard each user device may include a telephone adapted for regular telephone calls VoIP calls and the like. The user device may also include a computer for communicating with one or more servers of the contact center and performing data processing associated with contact center operations and for interfacing with customers via a variety of communication mechanisms such as chat instant messaging voice calls and the like.

The selection of an appropriate agent for routing an inbound or outbound customer activity may be based for example on a routing strategy employed by the routing server and based on information about agent availability skills preferences and other routing parameters provided for example by a statistics server .

According to some exemplary embodiments the media servers may be configured to detect user presence on different websites including social media sites and may also be configured to monitor and track interactions on those websites.

The contact center may also include a reporting server configured to generate reports from data aggregated by the statistics server . Such reports may include near real time reports or historical reports concerning the state of resources such as for example average waiting time abandonment rate agent occupancy and the like. The reports may be generated automatically or in response to specific requests from a requestor e.g. agent administrator contact center application and or the like .

According to some exemplary embodiments of the invention the routing server is enhanced with functionality for managing back office offline activities that are assigned to the agents. Such activities may include for example responding to emails responding to letters attending training seminars or any other activity that does not entail real time communication with a customer. Once assigned to an agent an activity may appear in the agent s workbin collectively referenced as as a task to be completed by the agent. The agent s workbin may be implemented via any data structure conventional in the art such as for example a linked list array and or the like. The workbin may be maintained for example in buffer memory of each user device .

According to some exemplary embodiments in addition to storing agent preference data the mass storage device also stores data related to contact center operation such as for example information related to agents customers customer activities and the like. The mass storage device may take form of a hard disk or disk array as is conventional in the art.

According to some exemplary embodiments the system also includes an outgoing contact server OCS for scheduling initiating and or managing outgoing interactions. For example the OCS may store an outgoing contact list and may interface with the routing server to enable an agent to partake in an outgoing activity to for example upsell current customers solicit new businesses seek donations for charitable organizations or reach out to customers who have requested technical assistance. According to some embodiments the OCS may further interact with the IVR for placing outgoing calls.

According to an exemplary embodiment the system also includes a contact view server CVS for displaying context rich content related to a customer on a user device . The user device may be any device that is connected to the system via for example a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN or internet and may for example be a desktop computer or a mobile device e.g. smart phone or tablet . According to one embodiment the contact view server monitors incoming and outgoing interactions between a user and an external entity e.g. a customer and triggers the display of an appropriate dashboard screen pop on the user s device . The user may in an enterprise setting be for example an agent an administrator or a high level management officer e.g. CEO and in a non enterprise setting be a private user who is employing the functionality of the present invention.

The contact server may also scan any document or email that a user receives or views on any of his her devices that are connected to the system for any reference to a known contact and launch the dashboard if one is found. The contact view server may also retrieve relevant customer data from various infobases to display via the dashboard. An infobase may include without limitation an electronic repository that stores dynamic reference information that is primarily free format or semi structured and may store for example text and or multimedia information which is full text indexed and multi user editable. The infobase may also include traditional databases.

The various servers of may each include one or more processors executing computer program instructions and interacting with other system components for performing the various functionalities described herein. The computer program instructions are stored in a memory implemented using a standard memory device such as for example a random access memory RAM . The computer program instructions may also be stored in other non transitory computer readable media such as for example a CD ROM flash drive or the like. Also although the functionality of each of the servers is described as being provided by the particular server a person of skill in the art will recognize that the functionality of various servers may be combined or integrated into a single server or the functionality of a particular server may be distributed across one or more other servers without departing from the scope of the embodiments of the present invention.

In order to display an appropriate dashboard configuration and populate it with the necessary content the contact view server may draw upon a number of local infobases including for example a contact information database a service history infobase a interaction and dialogue history infobase and the like. According to one embodiment the local infobases may be stored on the mass storage device and be operated by the CVS . According to an embodiment a universal contact server UCS and or a contact center s context services CS may also be employed to store information in and maintain the local infobases.

The CVS may also retrieve some of the displayed information from external repositories such as third party databases and or third party customer relationship management CRM interfaces. As is commonly understood in the art a CRM may be implemented for managing a company s interactions with customers clients and sales prospects. A CRM may involve organizing automating and synchronizing business processes such as sales marketing customer service and technical support activities with the goal of maintaining and expanding the current pool of clients.

According to an embodiment once a triggering event is detected the contact view server may retrieve the identity of the user who is assigned to interact with the client from the routing server and retrieve an appropriate dashboard configuration from the profile infobase . The display profile infobase may contain personalized configuration profile data for a user s one or more personalized display profiles and or a preset standard palette of profiles which a user may opt to use as his her profile s or as templates for customizing his her own personal profiles. The display profile infobase may also contain a user s clearance level. In one embodiment the user clearance levels may be stored on the contact view server . According to one embodiment the rules engine may store the display rules according to which a profile is to be selected for display on a user device . The display rules which may be partly or entirely defined by the user may be based on a number of parameters including for example the triggering event the identification of the display device used and or circumstances such as time of the trigger event and location of the user.

According to an embodiment once a dashboard configuration has been identified the contact view server may populate the dashboard with content retrieved from local and third party infobases. In one aspect the contact information database may provide customer contact information e.g. names addresses phone number emails etc. and other contextual information e.g. relevant news pieces and or other information found on the web or links thereto . In one embodiment contextual information may be inserted manually by a user after each new interaction or when new information about the client becomes available. Manual data entry may be limited for example to a particular user or a subset of users. According to one embodiment contextual information may be automatically gathered and stored. For example by browsing the web or social media networks such as Facebook Twitter Pinterest etc. the system may obtain up to date information on for example the number of Twitter followers or Facebook friends associated with a given contact. Such information may be automatically collected using a scheduled or event driven process according to one embodiment of the invention. In one aspect certain information may also be gathered in real time in response to a user request to display context information such as information about a contact s presence in social networks or current number of twitter followers . According to one embodiment contact data may be time stamped indicating when the data was added or when it became effective and obsolete data as determined by preset criteria may be removed or marked as such.

According to one embodiment a dashboard may be able to provide a view a contacting client s historical data as well as real time data on currently ongoing interaction between the client and one or more users. For example the service history infobase may in the case of a customer service department contain information about outstanding service requests by the customer previous trouble tickets issued for the client dispositions by the technical support staff etc. Other data such as information on issued or requested licenses products sold payments received etc. may be stored in separate databases e.g. license and or sale databases or included in the service history database . Further the interaction data infobase may provide information about any past interaction the client has had with any user and or any currently ongoing also referred to as active or live interaction. For example a supervisor may monitor the interaction e.g. a phone conversation a live chat session etc. between a knowledge worker and a customer through his her dashboard. In one embodiment the contact view server may interact with the IVR allowing the user s dashboard to display in real time a caller s responses to IVR questions.

According to one embodiment of the present invention in addition to the above mentioned infobases the contact view server may obtain contextual information from other related infobases RIBs containing related information. For example an RIB may include a business database which may contain for example sale marketing and client financial data or a CRM which may contain for example information about the business value of a particular customer short and long business strategy for dealing with the client or the like.

According to one embodiment the contact view server may also receive information from third party infobases and or CRMs such as the Oracle Siebel CRM or PeopleSoft CRM or the Microsoft Dynamic CRM all of which may manage their own infobases. A third party may for example be a social media network such as Facebook Twitter Pinterest or the like.

According to some exemplary embodiments of the present invention for a private user employing the dashboard functionality outside of an enterprise setting the CIB and RIB may exemplify either dedicated user operated and maintained solutions or services provided by a third party.

According to some embodiments customer related information accessible by the CVS may have an associated confidentiality level which may restrict what a user can and cannot view. According to one embodiment the confidentiality level of a record may be automatically assigned by the system according to a predefined rule. In one embodiment the confidentiality level may be manually assigned by a system user. According to an exemplary embodiment when a contact view server retrieves information to display on a dashboard the confidentiality level of the data may be checked against the clearance level of the user and data with confidentiality level not exceeding the user s clearance level is selected and displayed on the user s device .

Modules and may be implemented via computer program instructions that are stored in memory of the contact view server and executed by a processor. A person of skill in the art should recognize that all or portions of the modules may also be implemented via firmware e.g. ASIC hardware or a combination of software firmware and or hardware. Furthermore although the modules are depicted separately the function of the two modules may be merged.

Historical and active contact data may be sourced from various contact infobases CIB such as the contact information database the service history infobase the interaction infobase as well as related infobases and third party infobases . An index file may be used to facilitate speedy retrieval of historical data.

The contact view server may employ for example a Java remote method invocation RMI API to facilitate communication with other servers and CIBs . Other APIs such as the external server protocol ESP may also be employed as is common in multimedia deployments. The contact view server may also use Restful APIs i.e. services implemented using the principles of representational state transfer REST to render particular instances of a dashboard upon a trigger event or to enable personalization and management of custom display profiles.

The process starts and in step a trigger event contact sense is identified. The trigger event may be detected when for example a live or offline interaction prompts a query to the UCS or contact view server for contact information which yields a known contact. According to an embodiment contact records may be stored in the contact information database . In a live interaction scenario a contact sense may be triggered by for example an incoming interaction such as a voice call voice mail email SMS chat or the like from the contact or user initiated outgoing interactions with the contact. In an offline interaction scenario a contact sense may be triggered by for example access to archived electronic records of interactions with the contact and or documents emails webpages or the like that contain a reference to the contact. According to one embodiment the records may be in printed form in which case a trigger event may occur when the user employs a device such as for example the agent desktop or a smart phone to manually input or select from a list the contact identification. In one embodiment the user may use a device such as a smart phone mobile tablet or PC scanner or the like to scan or take a picture of a tangible document containing a reference to the contact and employ an automatic process such as optical character recognition OCR and or facial recognition to identify the contact and thus prompt a trigger event.

In the case of a live interaction e.g. incoming call or email even if the contact is unknown i.e. a query to the UCS or CVS for the contact s information does not yield a matching record a trigger event may still be recognized and the display rules may call for the invocation of for example a default display profile or an unknown contact profile in step .

In step the contact view server identifies the one or more viewing users and their active display devices e.g. user device . The viewing user may be an active user such as a knowledge worker who is engaged in an interaction with a contact or a passive user such as a supervisor who is monitoring an interaction with the contact. There may be more than one active or passive viewing user as may be the case in a conference call with a client and multiple participants. According to an embodiment the contact view server may determine the identity of any passive users based in part by defined rules as provided by the rules engine . For example in a contact center setting an escalation rule may establish that if a particular e.g. important customer contacts the organization a dashboard screen pop should be displayed to the agent who is assigned to the interaction as well as his her supervisor and or a sales manager or the like.

In step the contact view server may identify the appropriate dashboard configuration for each of the viewing users. For each viewing user the contact view server may use a number of query terms including for example the identity of the contact the identity of the user the device being used to interact with the contact the current time the geo location of the user and or the like to craft a query to the rules engine for any dashboard configuration rules. The location of the user may either be detected automatically by the system e.g. via a global positioning system or manually input to the system by the user. According to one example embodiment in addition to or in lieu of the above the contact view server query may include the confidentiality clearance level of the user and or a pointer to any device that may be designated by the system or the user as the dedicated device for dashboard display. The information provided by the rules engine may in turn be used to query the display profile infobase to retrieve the appropriate profile configuration for display on the user device .

For example if the user is a vice president of sales and timestamp of the trigger event indicates that it is near the end of the quarter a profile rule may invoke the configuration of an end of quarter sales profile. Further if the user location is indicative of the user being outside of the organization s premises a rule may call for the display of a limited dashboard which hides sensitive information from view. As a further example in an interaction with a high level officer from an important client organization a profile display rule may invoke a dashboard that is tailored to that particular client. According to an embodiment the queried rule may also call for the display of a default dashboard which may for example be a customized profile so designated by the user or may be a predefined system default.

In step the contact view server retrieves dashboard content for each of the one or more viewing users from a host of local and third party sources. According to an embodiment sources of profile content may include for example the contact information database for basic contact information such as name address phone number email address or the like the service history infobase for information on past or pending services interaction data infobase for information on past and present interactions with the contact other local related infobases such as sales or marketing databases CRM or the like and third party infobases . The content retrieved for each dashboard will be in accordance with the profile configuration identified in step . In step for each of the one or more users the contact view server pushes the retrieved information to the user s dashboard for display.

According to an embodiment in step the contact view server may check the confidentiality level of the data retrieved in step and only display content that is within the viewing user s clearance level. In another aspect the confidentiality check may occur at step to exclude information not within a user s clearance level from retrieval.

The user may also be able to customize the dashboard by deleting certain content from the dashboard view or adding new content by for example toggling an add button according to one embodiment of the invention. The user may be able to add content from any local or third party content source including for example the contact information database service history infobase interaction data infobase related infobases e.g. sales and marketing databases third party CRM and or the like. According to an embodiment the user may be able to organize the information on the dashboard in any manner he she may desire. Once a user is satisfied with the content and presentation of information on the dashboard the user may be able to save the configuration by toggling a save button which may prompt the contact view server to store the configuration in the display profile infobase .

According to an embodiment the user may also be able to switch between existing profiles by for example toggling a dropdown menu which may display a list of profiles retrievable from the display profile infobase that are available to the user.

According to an embodiment the user may also be able to share a dashboard configuration with another user by toggling a send view to button . Toggling the button may prompt the user to choose one or more users to send the personalized profile to. The receiving user may be able to view personalize and save the shared profile as he she desires. In one aspect toggling the send view to button may allow the user to send particular information to the dashboard of another user.

While the present invention has been described in connection with certain exemplary embodiments it is to be understood that the invention is not limited to the disclosed embodiments but on the contrary is intended to cover various modifications and equivalent arrangements included within the spirit and scope of the appended claims and equivalents thereof.

