---

title: Fungicidal pyrimidine compounds
abstract: 

url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09462809&OS=09462809&RS=09462809
owner: BASF SE
number: 09462809
owner_city: Ludwigshafen
owner_country: DE
publication_date: 20130312
---
This application is a National Stage application of International Application No. PCT EP2013 054966 filed Mar. 12 2013 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 610 040 filed Mar. 13 2012 the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated herein by reference. This application also claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 to EP Patent Application No. 12159313.1 filed Mar. 13 2012 and EP Patent Application No. 12165108.7 filed Apr. 23 2012 the entire contents of both are hereby incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates to fungicidal pyrimidine compounds to their use and to methods for combating phytopathogenic fungi. The present invention also relates to seeds treated with at least one such compound. Furthermore the invention relates to processes for preparing compounds of formula I.

WO 2011007839 A1 describes 4 3 butynyl aminopyrimidine derivatives which are pest controlling agents for agricultural and horticultural use.

EP 264217 A2 discloses certain aralkylaminopyrimidine derivatives which are useful as insecticides acaricides and fungicides.

The compounds according to the present invention differ from those described in the abovementioned publication in that the central phenyl ring is always substituted by a heteroaryloxy substituent and that the linker between said phenyl ring and the aminopyrimidine moiety is a butynyl derived group as described herein.

In many cases in particular at low application rates the fungicidal activity of known fungicidal compounds is unsatisfactory. Based on this it was an object of the present invention to provide compounds having improved activity and or a broader activity spectrum against phytopathogenic fungi. This objective is achieved by the use of substituted pyrimidine compounds of formula I having good fungicidal activity against phytopathogenic harmful fungi.

The present invention furthermore relates to processes for preparing compounds of formula I. The present invention furthermore relates to intermediates such as compounds of formulae III IIa and IIIa and to processes for preparing them. Accordingly a 4 halopyrimidine compound II wherein Hal is halogen preferably Cl or F can be reacted with a suitable amine compound III wherein X is CRR to obtain a compound I according to the present invention wherein X is CRR as shown in scheme 1.

Generally this reaction is carried out at temperatures of from 0 to 200 C. preferably from 50 to 170 C. preferably in an inert organic solvent and preferably in presence of a base or a catalyst or a combination of a base and a catalyst.

Suitable catalysts are e.g. haldies such as NaF KF LiF NaBr KBr LiBr Nal KI LiI ionic liquids such as imidazolium catalysts transition metal catalysts like palladium rhodium ruthenium iron copper in the form of halides pseudohalides alkoxides carboxylates preferred acetate complexes with dibenzylidene acetone and ligands like phosphine phosphites phosphoramidate ligands. Preferred ligands are bidentate and sterically demanding phosphorous ligands even more preferably the catalysts are selected from 2 2 bis diphenylphosphanyl 1 1 binaphthyl 2 2 Bis diphenylphosphino 1 1 biphenyl 2 4 6 diisopropyl 1 1 biphenyl 2 yldicyclohexylphosphine 2 dicyclohexylphosphino 2 6 dimethoxy 1 1 biphenyl 1 1 bis diphenylphosphino ferrocene 9 9 dimethyl 4 5 bis diphenylphosphino xanthene 1 2 bis diphenylphosphino ethane dppe 1 3 propanediylbis diphenylphosphine 1 4 butanediylbis diphenylphosphine and 1 1 1 2 ethanediyl bis 1 2 methoxyphenyl 1 phenyl diposphine.

Suitable solvents are aromatic hydrocarbons such as toluene o m and p xylene halogenated hydro carbons chlorobenzene dichlorobenzene ethers such as dioxane anisole and THF nitriles such as acetonitrile and propionitrile ketones such as acetone methyl ethyl ketone diethyl ketone and tert. butyl methyl ketone alcohols such as ethanol n propanol isopropanol n butanol and tert. butanol and also DMSO DMF dimethyl acetamide NMP NEP and acetic acid ethyl ester preferably THF DMSO DMF dimethyl acetamide NMP or NEP even more preferably THF DMF or NMP. It is also possible to use mixtures of the solvents mentioned.

Suitable bases are in general inorganic compounds such as alkali metal and alkaline earth metal hydroxides such as lithium hydroxide sodium hydroxide potassium hydroxide and calcium hydroxide alkali metal and alkaline earth metal oxides such as lithium oxide sodium oxide potassium oxide and calcium oxide alkali metal and alkaline earth metal phosphates such as lithium phosphate sodium phosphate potassium phosphate and calcium phosphate alkali metal amides such as lithium amide sodium amide and potassium amide alkali metal and alkaline earth metal hydrides lithium hydride sodium hydride potassium hydride and calcium hydride alkali metal and alkaline earth metal carbonates such as lithium carbonate potassium carbonate and calcium carbonate caesium carbonate moreover organic bases for example tertiary amines such as trimethyl amine TMA triethylamine TEA tributylamine TBA diisopropylethylamine DIPEA and N methyl 2 pyrrolidone NMP pyridine substituted pyridines such as collidine lutidine and 4 dimethylaminopyridine DMAP and also bicyclic amines. Preference is given to sodium hydride potassium hydride lithium carbonate potassium carbonate caesium carbonate TEA TBA and DIPEA in particular DIPEA. The bases are generally employed in equimolar amounts in excess or if appropriate as solvent. The amount of base is typically 1.1 to 5.0 molar equivalents relative to 1 mole of compounds II.

The starting materials are generally reacted with one another in equimolar amounts. In terms of yields it may be advantageous to employ an excess of compounds III based on 1.1 to 2.5 equivalents preferred 1.1 to 1.5 equivalents of compounds II.

The compounds II are known from the literature or are commercially available or they can be prepared for example in analogy to methods described in Heterocycles 2009 78 7 1627 1665 New J. Chem. 1994 18 6 701 8 WO 2005 095357 Science of Synthesis 2004 16 379 572 WO 2008 156726 WO 2006 072831 Organic Reactions Hoboken N.J. United States 2000 56 or Targets in Heterocyclic Systems 2008 12 59 84.

The alkyne amine compounds III are known from the literature or are commercially available or they can be prepared for example in analogy to methods described in WO 2011007839. The compounds III can also be prepared for example in analogy to methods described in scheme 2 wherein PG in compound AD 2 stands for a suitable protection group for an amine for example tert butoxycarbonyl benzyloxy carbonyl benzyl 4 methoxy benzyl acetyl or trichloro acetyl.

According to scheme 2 butyne compounds can be synthesized via a palladium catalyzed crosscoupling of an aryl halide AD 1 with suitable alkynes AD 2 US 20110105562 A1 Tetrahedron 1992 48 15 3239 50 WO 2004043458 A1 the heterocycle Het can be installed before or after the crosscoupling reaction.

Ring opening of a substituted aziridine AD 3 with a metal acetylide wherein M can be for example lithium directly leads to the formation of AD 2 Angewandte Chemie International Edition 2011 50 9 2144 2147 Journal of the American Chemical Society 2010 132 13 4542 4543 Organic Letters 2007 9 24 5127 5130 WO 2006044412 A1 . Nucleophilic addition of a propargyl metal wherein AD 5 wherein M can be for example lithium to an imine AD 4 is another way to prepare the amine compound AD 2 European Journal of Organic Chemistry 2010 8 1587 1592 Synlett 2008 4 578 582 Journal of Organic Chemistry 1999 64 7 2406 2410 Synthetic Communications 1997 27 15 2601 2614 .

Alkohols AD 7 can be used to synthesize amines AD 2. Alcohols AD 7 are commercially available or methods for their preparation are described in the literature.

Conversion of AD 7 to an amine can be achieved in a three step reaction sequence comprising a mesylation with methyanesulfonic acid chloride MsCl in the presence of a base such as triethylamine b treatment of the intermediate methylsulfonate with sodium azide and c subsequent reduction of the alkylazide with a suitable reductant e.g. SnCl as described in Journal of Medicinal Chemistry 2011 54 20 7363 7374 WO 2011098603 A1 Bioorganic Medicinal Chemistry 2011 19 10 3274 3279 followed by protection of the amino group. It is also possible to synthesize such compounds under Mitsunobu conditions as described in Journal of Organic Chemistry 2011 76 14 5661 5669 or Chemistry A European Journal 2011 17 6 1764 1767 or by way of a Gabriel synthesis as described in European Journal of Medicinal Chemistry 2011 46 8 3227 3236 Chemistry A European Journal 2010 16 41 12303 12306 or in WO 2010017047 A1.

Amide compounds AD 8 can be synthesized according to scheme 4. A suitably substituted acetamide can be formylated according to the synthesis described in Bulletin of the Chemical Society of Japan 1994 67 9 2514 21 or in Journal of Organic Chemistry 1983 48 17 2914 20.

A subsequent Corey Fuchs cascade formation of the dibromo alkene with tetrabromomethane and triphenylphosphine U.S. Pat. No. 4 944 795 A rearrangement induced with n butyllithium furnishing the alkyne Organic Letters 2011 13 9 2204 2207 Journal of the Chemical Society Perkin Transactions 1 2002 9 1199 1212 produces the alkyne amide AD 2.

An alternative way to prepare compounds AD 8 wherein PG is hydrogen is described in scheme 5. A propargyl halide is reacted with a metal cyanid wherein the metal M can be for example sodium or potassium which is subsequently hydrolysed under basic aqueous conditions to give the alkyne.

Generally this reaction is carried out at temperatures of from 0 to 200 C. preferably from 50 to 170 C. in an inert organic solvent preferably in the presence of a base or a catalyst or a combination of a base and a catalyst in a solvent.

Suitable catalysts are e.g. halides such as NaF KF LiF NaBr KBr LiBr Nal KI LiI ionic liquids such as imidazolium catalysts transition metal catalysts like palladium rhodium ruthenium iron copper in the form of halides pseudohalides alkoxides carboxylates preferred acetate complexes with dibenzylidene acetone and ligands like phosphine phosphites phosphoramidate ligands. Preferred ligands are bidentate and sterically demanding phosphorous ligands even more preferably the catalysts are selected from 2 2 bis diphenyl phosphanyl 1 1 binaphthyl 2 2 bis diphenylphosphino 1 1 biphenyl 2 4 6 diisopropyl 1 1 biphenyl 2 yldicyclohexylphosphine 2 dicyclohexylphosphino 2 6 dimethoxy 1 1 biphenyl 1 1 bis diphenylphosphino ferrocene 9 9 dimethyl 4 5 bis diphenylphosphino xanthene 1 2 bis diphenylphosphino ethane dppe 1 3 propanediylbis diphenylphosphine 1 4 butanediylbis diphenylphosphine and 1 1 1 2 ethanediyl bis 1 2 methoxyphenyl 1 phenyl diposphine.

Suitable solvents are aromatic hydrocarbons such as toluene o m and p xylene halogenated hydrocarbons such as chlorobenzene dichlorobenzene ethers such as dioxane anisole and THF nitriles such as acetonitrile and propionitrile ketones such as acetone methyl ethyl ketone diethyl ketone and tert. butyl methyl ketone alcohols such as ethanol n propanol isopropanol n butanol and tert. butanol and also DMSO DMF dimethyl acetamide NMP NEP and acetic acid ethyl ester. Preferably THF DMSO DMF dimethyl acetamide NMP or NEP are used even more preferably THF DMF or NMP are used. It is also possible to use mixtures of the solvents mentioned.

Suitable bases and their amounts are as described for the reaction with a phenethyl amine compound III wherein X is CRR as described above. The starting materials are generally reacted with one another in equimolar amounts. In terms of yields it may be advantageous to employ an excess of compounds III based on 1.1 to 2.5 equivalents preferred 1.1 to 1.5 equivalents of compounds II.

Alternatively amide compounds I wherein X is C O can be synthesized by reacting 4 amino pyrimidine compounds IIa available by reaction of a chloropyrimidine II with excess of ammonia in analogy to methods described in WO 2011 147066 WO 2006 135719 US 2005 0245530 A1 J. Chem. Soc. 1951 3439 44 Helv. Chim. Act. 1951 34 835 40 with compounds of the formula IIIa in which Z is hydrogen or C C alkyl which are commercially available or which can be prepared as described above preferably in the presence of Al CH 1 to 3 equivalents as stoichiometric reagent preferably in an inert organic solvent such as toluene in analogy to US 2010 0063063 A1 WO 2005 011601 WO 2006 074884 as outlined in scheme 10.

Compounds I wherein X is C S can be prepared for example in analogy to methods described in US 20100022538 A1 J. Med. Chem. 2011 54 9 3241 3250 J. Org. Chem. 2011 76 6 1546 1553 Org. Lett. 2010 12 23 5570 5572.

Compounds I wherein X is C NR can be prepared from compounds I wherein X is C O in analogy to Bioorg. Med. Chem. 2008 16 8 4600 4616 J. Med. Chem. 2004 47 3 663 672 Eur. J. Org. Chem. 2004 5 1025 1032 J. Med. Chem. 1987 30 4 720 1.

Compounds I wherein X is C NOR can be prepared from compounds I wherein X is C O in analogy to WO 2007 075598 or from compounds I wherein X is C S according to WO 2008 039520 and O zbekiston Kimyo Jurnali 2004 4 3 6.

Compounds I and intermediates wherein R is hydrogen can be converted by conventional processes such as alkylation. Examples of suitable alkylating agents include alkyl halides such as alkyl chloride alkyl bromide or alkyl iodide examples being methyl chloride methyl bromide or methyl iodide or dialkyl sulfates such as dimethyl sulfate or diethyl sulfate. The reaction with the alkylating agent is carried out advantageously in the presence of a solvent. Solvents used for these reactions are depending on temperature range aliphatic cycloaliphatic or aromatic hydrocarbons such as hexane cyclohexane toluene xylene chlorinated aliphatic and aromatic hydrocarbons such as DCM chlorobenzene open chain dialkyl ethers such as diethyl ether di n propyl ether MTBE cyclic ethers such as THF 1 4 dioxane glycol ethers such as dimethyl glycol ether and also DMSO DMF dimethyl acetamide NMP NEP and acetic acid ethyl ester preferably DMF DMSO NMP or NEP or mixtures of these solvents.

Compounds II wherein Rand Rin each case constitute together with two ring member carbon atoms of the pyrimidine ring one of the following heterocyclic groups as defined in line 1 to line 26 in table A.2 wherein 5 and 6 indicate the point of attachment to the pyrimidine ring each respectively corresponding to the positions of either substituent Ror R can be prepared according to commonly known procedures such as those given below or in analogy to those cited references or are commercially available.

Compounds II wherein the meaning of Rand Rcorresponds to line 1 of table A.2 can be prepared as described in EP 326329 A2 US 20050187231 A1 WO 2007071963 A2 Tetrahedron 2004 60 25 5373 5382 Bioorganic Medicinal Chemistry Letters 2009 19 6 1715 1717 or in WO 2010025451 A2.

Compounds II wherein the meaning of Rand Rcorresponds to line 3 of table A.2 can be prepared as described in European Journal of Medicinal Chemistry 2011 46 9 3887 3899 WO 2011104183 A1 or in Organic Process Research Development 2011 15 4 918 924.

Compounds II wherein the meaning of Rand Rcorresponds to line 4 of table A.2 can be prepared as described in WO 2011131741 A1 WO 2010101949 A1 or in Journal of Organic Chemistry 1979 44 3 435 40.

Compounds II wherein the meaning of Rand Rcorresponds to line 5 or 20 of table A.2 can be prepared as described in Organic Process Research Development 2011 15 4 918 924 or in Tetrahedron 1998 54 33 9903 9910.

Compounds II wherein the meaning of Rand Rcorresponds to line 6 of table A.2 can be prepared as described in WO 2010026262 A1 or in WO 2007092681 A2.

Compounds II wherein the meaning of Rand Rcorresponds to line 8 of table A.2 can be prepared as described in WO 2010038060 A1 Bioorganic Medicinal Chemistry Letters 2010 20 7 2330 2334 CN 101544642 A or in Journal of the American Chemical Society 1956 78 225 8.

Compounds II wherein the meaning of Rand Rcorresponds to line 11 of table A.2 can be prepared as described in US 20110028496 A1.

Compounds II wherein the meaning of Rand Rcorresponds to line 12 of table A.2 can be prepared as described in WO 2010014930 US 20110028496 A1 or in WO 2008057402 A2.

Compounds II wherein the meaning of Rand Rcorresponds to line 14 of table A.2 can be prepared as described in Australian Journal of Chemistry 1990 43 1 47 53 or in WO 2009013545 A2.

Compounds II wherein the meaning of Rand Rcorresponds to line 24 of table A.2 can be prepared as described in US 20090005359 A1 or in US 20070281949 A1.

Compounds II wherein the meaning of Rand Rcorresponds to line 25 of table A.2 can be prepared as described in WO 2007013964 A1.

Compounds II wherein the meaning of Rand Rcorresponds to line 26 of table A.2 can be prepared as described in Journal of Medicinal Chemistry 1988 31 2 454 61 or in WO 2006046135 A2.

If individual compounds I cannot be obtained by the routes described above they can be prepared by derivatization of other compounds I. The N oxides may be prepared from the compounds I according to conventional oxidation methods e.g. by treating compounds I with an organic peracid such as metachloroperbenzoic acid cf. WO 03 64572 or J. Med. Chem. 1995 38 11 1892 1903 or with inorganic oxidizing agents such as hydrogen peroxide cf. J. Heterocyc. Chem. 1981 18 7 1305 1308 or oxone cf. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2001 123 25 5962 5973 . The oxidation may lead to pure mono N oxides or to a mixture of different N oxides which can be separated by conventional methods such as chromatography.

If the synthesis yields mixtures of isomers a separation is generally not necessarily required since in some cases the individual isomers can be interconverted during work up for use or during application e.g. under the action of light acids or bases . Such conversions may also take place after use e.g. in the treatment of plants in the treated plant or in the harmful fungus to be controlled.

The reaction mixtures are worked up in a customary manner for example by mixing with water separating the phases and if appropriate chromatic purification of the crude products. In some cases the intermediates and end products are obtained in the form of colorless or slightly viscous oils which can be freed from volatile components or purified under reduced pressure and at moderately elevated temperatures. If the intermediates and end products are obtained as solids purification can also be carried out by recrystallization or digestion.

The compounds of the present invention are useful for combating harmful fungi. Therefore the present invention furthermore relates to a method for combating harmful fungi which process comprises treating the fungi or the materials plants the soil or seeds to be protected against fungal attack with an effective amount of at least one compound of formula I or of an N oxide or an agriculturally acceptable salt thereof.

Furthermore the present invention also relates to seed comprising a compound of formula I or an N oxide or an agriculturally acceptable salt thereof in an amount of from 0.1 g to 10 kg per 100 kg of seed.

Agriculturally useful salts of the compounds I encompass especially the salts of those cations or the acid addition salts of those acids whose cations and anions respectively have no adverse effect on the fungicidal action of the compounds I. Suitable cations are thus in particular the ions of the alkali metals preferably sodium and potassium of the alkaline earth metals preferably calcium magnesium and barium of the transition metals preferably manganese copper zinc and iron and also the ammonium ion which if desired may carry one to four C C alkyl substituents and or one phenyl or benzyl substituent preferably diisopropylammonium tetramethylammonium tetrabutylammonium trimethylbenzylammonium furthermore phosphonium ions sulfonium ions preferably tri C C alkyl sulfonium and sulfoxonium ions preferably tri C C alkyl sulfoxonium.

Anions of useful acid addition salts are primarily chloride bromide fluoride hydrogensulfate sulfate dihydrogenphosphate hydrogenphosphate phosphate nitrate bicarbonate carbonate hexafluorosilicate hexafluorophosphate benzoate and the anions of C C alkanoic acids preferably formate acetate propionate and butyrate. They can be formed by reacting a compound I with an acid of the corresponding anion preferably of hydrochloric acid hydrobromic acid sulfuric acid phosphoric acid or nitric acid.

Depending on the substitution pattern the compounds of formula I and their N oxides may have one or more centers of chirality in which case they are present as pure enantiomers or pure diastereomers or as enantiomer or diastereomer mixtures. Both the pure enantiomers or diastereomers and their mixtures are subject matter of the present invention.

Compounds I can be present in different crystal modifications whose biological activity may differ. They also form part of the subject matter of the present invention. The compounds of formula I can be present in atropisomers arising from restricted rotation about a single bond of asymmetric groups. They also form part of the subject matter of the present invention.

In respect of the variables the embodiments of the intermediates correspond to the embodiments of the compounds of formula I. The term compounds I refers to compounds of formula I. Likewise the term compounds IIa refers to compounds of formula IIa.

The compounds of formula I can be present in atropisomers arising from restricted rotation about a single bond of asymmetric groups. They also form part of the subject matter of the present invention.

In the definitions of the variables given above collective terms are used which are generally representative for the substituents in question. The term C C indicates the number of carbon atoms possible in each case in the substituent or substituent moiety in question.

The term C C alkyl refers to a straight chained or branched saturated hydrocarbon group having 1 to 4 carbon atoms for example methyl ethyl propyl 1 methylethyl butyl 1 methylpropyl 2 methylpropyl and 1 1 dimethylethyl. Likewise the term C C alkyl refers to a straight chained or branched saturated hydrocarbon group having 1 to 6 carbon atoms.

The term C C haloalkyl refers to a straight chained or branched alkyl group having 1 to 4 carbon atoms as defined above wherein some or all of the hydrogen atoms in these groups may be replaced by halogen atoms as mentioned above for example chloromethyl bromomethyl dichloromethyl trichloromethyl fluoromethyl difluoromethyl trifluoromethyl chlorofluoromethyl dichlorofluoromethyl chlorodifluoromethyl 1 chloroethyl 1 bromoethyl 1 fluoroethyl 2 fluoroethyl 2 2 difluoroethyl 2 2 2 trifluoroethyl 2 chloro 2 fluoroethyl 2 chloro 2 2 difluoroethyl 2 2 dichloro 2 fluoroethyl 2 2 2 trichloroethyl and pentafluoroethyl 2 fluoropropyl 3 fluoropropyl 2 2 difluoropropyl 2 3 difluoropropyl 2 chloropropyl 3 chloropropyl 2 3 dichloropropyl 2 bromopropyl 3 bromopropyl 3 3 3 trifluoropropyl 3 3 3 trichloropropyl CH CF CF CF CF CF 1 fluoromethyl 2 fluoroethyl 1 chloromethyl 2 chloroethyl 1 bromomethyl 2 bromoethyl 4 fluorobutyl 4 chlorobutyl 4 bromobutyl or nonafluorobutyl. Likewise the term C C haloalkyl refers to a straight chained or branched alkyl group having 1 to 6 carbon atoms.

The term C C alkoxy refers to a straight chain or branched alkyl group having 1 to 4 carbon atoms as defined above which is bonded via an oxygen at any position in the alkyl group for example methoxy ethoxy n propoxy 1 methylethoxy butoxy 1 methylpropoxy 2 methylpropoxy or 1 1 dimethylethoxy. Likewise the term C C alkoxy refers to a straight chain or branched alkyl group having 1 to 6 carbon atoms.

The term C C hydroxyalkyl refers to a straight chained or branched alkyl group having 2 to 4 carbon atoms as defined above wherein one hydrogen atom in these groups may be replaced by one hydroxy group for example hydroxymethyl 

The term C C haloalkoxy refers to a C C alkoxy group as defined above wherein some or all of the hydrogen atoms may be replaced by halogen atoms as mentioned above for example OCHF OCHF OCF OCHCl OCHCl OCCl chlorofluoromethoxy dichlorofluoromethoxy chlorodifluoromethoxy 2 fluoroethoxy 2 chloroethoxy 2 bromoethoxy 2 iodoethoxy 2 2 difluoroethoxy 2 2 2 trifluoroethoxy 2 chloro 2 fluoroethoxy 2 chloro 2 2 difluoroethoxy 2 2 dichloro 2 fluoroethoxy 2 2 2 trichloroethoxy OCF 2 fluoropropoxy 3 fluoropropoxy 2 2 difluoropropoxy 2 3 difluoropropoxy 2 chloropropoxy 3 chloropropoxy 2 3 dichloropropoxy 2 bromopropoxy 3 bromopropoxy 3 3 3 trifluoropropoxy 3 3 3 trichloropropoxy OCH CF OCF CF 1 CHF 2 fluoroethoxy 1 CHCl 2 chloroethoxy 1 CHBr 2 bromoethoxy 4 fluorobutoxy 4 chlorobutoxy 4 bromobutoxy or nonafluorobutoxy. Likewise the term C C haloalkoxy refers to a C C alkoxy group as defined above wherein some or all of the hydrogen atoms may be replaced by halogen atoms as mentioned above.

The term C C alkoxy C C alkyl refers to alkyl having 1 to 4 carbon atoms as defined above wherein one hydrogen atom of the alkyl radical is replaced by a C C alkoxy group as defined above . Likewise the term C C alkoxy C C alkyl refers to alkyl having 1 to 4 carbon atoms as defined above wherein one hydrogen atom of the alkyl radical is replaced by a C C alkoxy group as defined above .

The term C C haloalkoxy C C alkyl refers to alkyl having 1 to 4 carbon atoms as defined above wherein one hydrogen atom of the alkyl radical is replaced by a C C haloalkoxy group as defined above . Likewise the term C C haloalkoxy C C alkyl refers to alkyl having 1 to 4 carbon atoms as defined above wherein one hydrogen atom of the alkyl radical is replaced by a C C alkoxy group as defined above .

The term C C alkylthio as used herein refers to straight chain or branched alkyl groups having 1 to 4 carbon atoms as defined above bonded via a sulfur atom at any position in the alkyl group for example methylthio ethylthio propylthio isopropylthio and n butylthio. Likewise the term C C alkylthio as used herein refers to straight chain or branched alkyl groups having 1 to 6 carbon atoms as defined above bonded via a sulfur atom. Accordingly the terms C C haloalkylthio and C C haloalkylthio as used herein refer to straight chain or branched haloalkyl groups having 1 to 4 or 1 to 6 carbon atoms as defined above bonded through a sulfur atom at any position in the haloalkyl group.

The terms C C alkylsulfinyl or C C alkylsulfinyl refer to straight chain or branched alkyl groups having 1 to 4 or 1 to 6 carbon atoms as defined above bonded through a S O moiety at any position in the alkyl group for example methylsulfinyl and ethylsulfinyl and the like. Accordingly the terms C C haloalkylsulfinyl and C C haloalkylsulfinyl respectively refer to straight chain or branched haloalkyl groups having 1 to 4 and 1 to 6 carbon atoms as defined above respectively bonded through a S O moiety at any position in the haloalkyl group.

The terms C C alkylsulfonyl and C C alkylsulfonyl respectively refer to straight chain or branched alkyl groups having 1 to 4 and 1 to 6 carbon atoms as defined above respectively bonded through a S O moiety at any position in the alkyl group for example methylsulfonyl. Accordingly the terms C C haloalkylsulfonyl and C C haloalkylsulfonyl respectively refer to straight chain or branched haloalkyl groups having 1 to 4 and 1 to 6 carbon atoms as defined above respectively bonded through a S O moiety at any position in the haloalkyl group.

The term C C alkylamino refers to an amino radical carrying one C C alkyl group as defined above as substituent for example methylamino ethylamino propylamino 1 methylethylamino butylamino 1 methylpropylamino 2 methylpropylamino 1 1 di methylethylamino and the like. Likewise the term C C alkylamino refers to an amino radical carrying one C C alkyl group as defined above as substituent.

The term di C C alkyl amino refers to an amino radical carrying two identical or different C C alkyl groups as defined above as substituents for example dimethylamino diethylamino di n propylamino diisopropylamino N ethyl N methylamino N n propyl N methylamino N isopropyl N methylamino N n butyl N methylamino N n pentyl N methylamino N 2 butyl N methylamino N isobutyl N methylamino and the like. Likewise the term di C C alkyl amino refers to an amino radical carrying two identical or different C C alkyl groups as defined above as substituents.

The term C C alkoxy carbonyl refers to a C C alkoxy radical as defined above which is attached via a carbonyl group.

The term di C C alkyl aminocarbonyl refers to a di C C alkylamino radical as defined above which is attached via a carbonyl group.

The term phenoxy and refers to a phenyl radical which is attached via an oxygen atom. Likewise the term phenoxy C C alkyl and refers to a phenoxy radical which is attached via a C C alkyl group as defined above .

The term C C alkenyl refers to a straight chain or branched unsaturated hydrocarbon radical having 2 to 4 carbon atoms and a double bond in any position such as ethenyl 1 propenyl 2 propenyl allyl 1 methylethenyl 1 butenyl 2 butenyl 3 butenyl 1 methyl 1 propenyl 2 methyl 1 propenyl 1 methyl 2 propenyl 2 methyl 2 propenyl. Likewise the term C C alkenyl refers to a straight chain or branched unsaturated hydrocarbon radical having 2 to 6 carbon atoms and a double bond in any position.

The term C C alkynyl refers to a straight chain or branched unsaturated hydrocarbon radical having 2 to 4 carbon atoms and containing at least one triple bond such as ethynyl 1 propynyl 2 propynyl 1 butynyl 2 butynyl 3 butynyl 1 methyl 2 propynyl. Likewise the term C C alkynyl refers to a straight chain or branched unsaturated hydrocarbon radical having 2 to 6 carbon atoms and at least one triple bond.

The term C C cycloalkyl refers to monocyclic saturated hydrocarbon radicals having 3 to 8 carbon ring members such as cyclopropyl CH cyclobutyl cyclopentyl cyclohexyl cycloheptyl or cyclooctyl.

The term C C cycloalkyl C C alkyl refers to a cycloalkyl radical having 3 to 8 carbon atoms as defined above which is bonded via a C C alkyl group as defined above .

The term C C cycloalkyloxy refers to a cycloalkyl radical having 3 to 8 carbon atoms as defined above which is bonded via an oxygen.

The term saturated or partially unsaturated 3 4 5 6 or 7 membered carbocycle is to be understood as meaning both saturated or partially unsaturated carbocycles having 3 4 5 6 or 7 ring members. Examples include cyclopropyl cyclopentyl cyclopentenyl cyclopentadienyl cyclohexyl cyclohexenyl cyclohexadienyl cycloheptyl cycloheptenyl cycloheptadienyl and the like.

The term saturated or partially unsaturated 3 4 5 6 or 7 membered heterocycle wherein the ring member atoms of the heterocycle include besides carbon atoms 1 2 3 or 4 heteroatoms selected from the group of N O and S is to be understood as meaning both saturated and partially unsaturated heterocycles for example 

The term 5 or 6 membered heteroaryl wherein the ring member atoms of the heteroaryl include besides carbon atoms 1 2 3 or 4 heteroatoms selected from the group of N O and S refers to for example 

The term two radicals Rthat are bound to adjacent ring member atoms form together with said ring member atoms a fused cycle refers to a condensed bicyclic ring system wherein 5 or 6 membered heteroaryl carries a fused on 5 6 or 7 membered carbocyclic or heterocyclic ring it being possible that these rings are saturated or partially saturated or aromatic.

The term one or two CHgroups of the abovementioned cycles may be respectively replaced by one or two C O or C S groups refers to an exchange of carbon atoms from a saturated or partially unsaturated 3 4 5 6 or 7 membered carbocycle or a saturated or partially unsaturated 3 4 5 6 or 7 membered heterocycle resulting in cycles such as cyclopropanone cyclopentanone cyclopropanethione cyclopentanethione 5 oxazolone cyclohexane 1 4 dione cyclohexane 1 4 dithione cyclohex 2 ene 1 4 dione or cyclohex 2 ene 1 4 dithione.

As regards the fungicidal activity of the compounds I preference is given to those compounds I wherein the substituents and variables e.g. R R R R X R R R R R R R R R R R n and Het have independently of each other or more preferably in combination the following meanings and the groups mentioned herein for a substituent or for a combination of substituents are furthermore independently of the combination in which they are mentioned a particularly preferred embodiment of the substituent or of the combination of substituents in question 

One embodiment of the present invention relates to compounds I wherein R Rand Rindependently of each other are preferably selected from the group consisting of hydrogen halogen CN C C alkyl C C haloalkyl C C alkoxy C C haloalkoxy C C alkylthio C C haloalkylthio C C alkoxy C C alkyl C C alkoxy C C alkoxy C C alkenyl C C alkynyl C C cycloalkyl C C cycloalkyloxy C C alkoxy carbonyl.

A further embodiment relates to compounds I wherein R Rand Rindependently of each other are preferably selected from the group consisting of hydrogen halogen CN C C alkyl C C haloalkyl C C alkoxy C C haloalkoxy C C alkoxy C C alkyl C C alkoxy C C alkoxy and C C alkoxy carbonyl.

A further embodiment relates to compounds I wherein R Rand Rindependently of each other are halogen CN C C alkyl C C haloalkyl C C alkoxy C C haloalkoxy C C alkoxy C C alkyl C C alkoxy C C alkoxy and C C alkoxy carbonyl and it being possible that one or two of R Ror Rcan in addition be hydrogen.

Further preferred embodiments relate to compounds I wherein R Rand Rindependently of each other are preferably selected from the group consisting of hydrogen Cl F CH CHCH OCH OCF CHOCH CN OCHOCH CF CHFCH COOCHand COOCHCH.

Further preferred embodiments relate to compounds I wherein R Rand Rindependently of each other are preferably selected from the group consisting of Cl F CH CHCH OCH OCF CHOCH CN OCHOCH CF CHFCH COOCHand COOCHCH.

Further preferred embodiments relate to compounds I wherein R Rand Rindependently of each other are hydrogen Cl CH OCH CN or COOCH.

Further preferred embodiments relate to compounds I wherein R Rand Rindependently of each other are Cl CH OCH CN or COOCH.

In another preferred embodiment of the invention Ris hydrogen halogen C C alkyl C C haloalkyl C C alkoxy or C C haloalkoxy.

In a further preferred embodiment Rand Rindependently of each other are hydrogen halogen OH CN C C alkyl C C alkenyl C C haloalkyl C C alkoxy or C C alkoxy carbonyl or Rand Rtogether with two ring member carbon atoms to which they are attached form a fused 5 or 6 membered saturated partially unsaturated or aromatic carbocycle or heterocycle wherein the ring member atoms of the fused heterocycle include besides carbon atoms 1 2 or 3 heteroatoms selected from the group of N O and S and wherein the fused carbocycle or heterocycle is unsubstituted or carries 1 2 3 or 4 identical or different radicals selected from halogen CN C C alkyl C C alkoxy C C haloalkyl and C C haloalkoxy.

In still another preferred embodiment Rand Rindependently of each other are hydrogen halogen OH CN C C alkyl C C alkenyl C C haloalkyl C C alkoxy or C C alkoxy carbonyl or Rand Rtogether with two ring member carbon atoms to which they are attached form a fused 5 or 6 membered aromatic carbocycle or heterocycle wherein the ring member atoms of the fused heterocycle include besides carbon atoms 1 2 or 3 heteroatoms selected from the group of N O and S and wherein the fused carbocycle or heterocycle is unsubstituted or carries 1 2 3 or 4 identical or different radicals selected from halogen CN C C alkyl C C alkoxy C C haloalkyl and C C haloalkoxy.

Further preferred embodiments relate to compounds I wherein R Rand Rin each case are one of the following combinations in line A.1 1 to line A.1 1190 in table A.1 wherein Me stands for CHand Et stands for CHCH.

Further preferred embodiments relate to compounds I wherein Rand Rin each case constitute together with two ring member carbon atoms of the pyrimidine ring one of the following heterocyclic groups as defined in line A.2 1 to line A.2 26 in table A wherein 5 and 6 indicate the point of attachment to the pyrimidine ring each respectively corresponding to the positions of either substituent Ror R.

In the compounds I according to the invention R in radical Rpreferably is hydrogen NH C C alkyl C C alkoxy.

In the compounds I according to the invention R in radical Rpreferably is hydrogen NH C C alkyl C C alkoxy.

In the compounds I according to the invention R in radical Rpreferably is hydrogen NH C C alkyl C C alkoxy.

In the compounds I according to the invention R is preferably selected from the group consisting of hydrogen C C alkyl C C alkoxy C C alkoxy C C alkyl C C alkenyl C C alkynyl CN CHCN or CH O C O R wherein R is hydrogen C C alkyl C C alkoxy more preferably R is selected from the group consisting of hydrogen C C alkyl C C alkoxy C C alkyl C C alkenyl and C C alkynyl in another preferred embodiment R is hydrogen C C alkyl C C alkenyl or C C alkynyl most preferably R is hydrogen or C C alkyl more preferably R is hydrogen a more preferred embodiment relates to compounds I wherein R is CH.

In the compounds I according to the invention X is preferably a divalent group CRR wherein Rand Rindependently of each other are hydrogen CN C C hydroxyalkyl C C alkyl C C alkenyl C C alkynyl or C C cycloalkyl in another preferred embodiment X is CH CH CH CH CHCH C CH CHCN C O C S CH C O C C alkoxy CH C O NH C O N C C alkyl and CH C O OH . Another preferred embodiment of the invention relates to compounds I wherein X is CH C O CH CH C CH CHCN CH C O OCH or CH C O OCHCH more preferably X is CH or CH CH in particular CH more preferably X is C O .

In the compounds I according to the invention Rand Rindependently of each other are preferably selected from the group consisting of hydrogen CN C C alkyl C C haloalkyl C C alkoxy C C haloalkoxy and C C cycloalkyl more preferably Rand Rindependently of each other are hydrogen CN CH CHCH F Cl or OCH another more preferred embodiment relates to compounds I wherein Rand Rindependently of each other are hydrogen or C C alkyl another more preferred embodiment relates to compounds I wherein Rand Rindependently of each other are hydrogen or CH more preferably Rand Rare hydrogen.

Further preferred embodiments relate to compounds I wherein R X Rand Rin each case are one of the following combinations B 1 to B 84 in table B 

In the compounds I according to the invention Rare independently selected from halogen CN NO C C alkyl C C haloalkyl C C alkoxy C C haloalkoxy C C alkoxy C C alkyl and C C alkoxy carbonyl more preferably Rare independently selected from halogen CN C C alkyl C C haloalkyl C C alkoxy and C C alkoxy carbonyl in another preferred embodiment Rare independently selected from halogen and C C alkoxy most preferably Rare independently selected from halogen CN CH CFand OCH. A particularly preferred embodiment relates to compounds I wherein Ris F. Another particularly preferred embodiment relates to compounds I wherein Ris CH. A further particularly preferred embodiment relates to compounds I wherein Ris CF. In yet another particularly preferred embodiment Ris OCH. In still a further embodiment Ris attached to the phenyl ring adjacent in ortho position to the alkyne group. A further embodiment relates to compounds I wherein Ris attached in meta position to the alkyne group.

A further embodiment relates to compounds I wherein n is preferably 4. In the compounds I according to the invention Het is preferably selected from the group consisting of pyrimidin 2 yl pyrimidin 3 yl pyrimidin 4 yl pyridin 2 yl pyridin 3 yl pyridin 4 yl thiazol 2 yl thiazol 4 yl thiazol 5 yl isothiazol 3 yl isothiazol 4 yl isothiazol 5 yl pyrazin 2 yl pyridazin 3 yl 1 3 5 triazin 2 yl and 1 2 4 triazin 3 yl more preferably Het is selected from pyrimidin 2 yl pyrimidin 3 yl pyrimidin 4 yl pyridin 2 yl pyridin 3 yl pyridin 4 yl thiazol 2 yl pyrazin 2 yl pyridazin 3 yl 1 3 5 triazin 2 yl and 1 2 4 triazin 3 yl more preferably Het is selected from pyrimidin 2 yl pyrimidin 3 yl pyrimidin 4 yl pyridin 2 yl pyridin 3 yl pyridin 4 yl preferably Het is pyrimidin 2 yl pyridin 2 yl pyridin 3 yl pyridin 4 yl thiazol 2 yl.

In a further preferred embodiment Het is a pyridinyl or pyrimidinyl ring wherein the moiety O Het is bound in para or meta position to the phenyl ring and wherein the pyridinyl or pyrimidinyl are unsubstituted or carry 1 or 2 groups R wherein Ris halogen C C alkyl C C haloalkyl C C alkoxy or C C alkoxy carbonyl.

According to one embodiment Het is unsubstituted a further preferred embodiment relates to compounds I wherein Het is unsubstituted or substituted by 1 radical R another preferred embodiment relates to compounds I wherein Het is unsubstituted or substituted by 1 or 2 independently selected radicals R yet another preferred embodiment relates to compounds I wherein Het is unsubstituted or substituted by 1 2 or 3 independently selected radicals R another preferred embodiment relates to compounds I wherein Het is unsubstituted or substituted by 1 2 3 or 4 independently selected radicals R.

In the compounds I according to the invention Rare preferably independently selected from halogen CN C C alkyl C C haloalkyl C C alkoxy C C haloalkoxy C C alkenyl C C alkynyl C O R C NOR R C C cycloalkyl phenyl and phenoxy. In another preferred embodiment Rare independently selected from halogen C C alkyl C C haloalkyl C C alkoxy and C C alkoxy carbonyl. A further preferred embodiment relates to compounds I wherein Rare independently selected from F Cl CN CH OCH CF OCFand COOCH most preferably Rare independently selected from Cl CN and CF.

Preferred embodiments of the invention relate to compounds I in which the group Het is one of the following radicals H 1 to H 38 in table H 

A skilled person will readily understand that the preferences given in connection with compounds of formula I also apply for formulae I.A or I.B as defined herein.

According to a further embodiment the present invention relates to compounds of the formula I wherein 

The compounds I and the compositions according to the invention respectively are suitable as fungicides. They are distinguished by an outstanding effectiveness against a broad spectrum of phytopathogenic fungi including soil borne fungi which derive especially from the classes of the Plasmodiophoromycetes Peronosporomycetes syn. Oomycetes Chytridiomycetes Zygomycetes Ascomycetes Basidiomycetes and Deuteromycetes syn. Fungi imperfecti . Some are systemically effective and they can be used in crop protection as foliar fungicides fungicides for seed dressing and soil fungicides. Moreover they are suitable for controlling harmful fungi which inter alia occur in wood or roots of plants.

The compounds I and the compositions according to the invention are particularly important in the control of a multitude of phytopathogenic fungi on various cultivated plants such as cereals e.g. wheat rye barley triticale oats or rice beet e.g. sugar beet or fodder beet fruits such as pomes stone fruits or soft fruits e.g. apples pears plums peaches almonds cherries strawberries raspberries blackberries or gooseberries leguminous plants such as lentils peas alfalfa or soybeans oil plants such as rape mustard olives sunflowers coconut cocoa beans castor oil plants oil palms ground nuts or soybeans cucurbits such as squashes cucumber or melons fiber plants such as cotton flax hemp or jute citrus fruit such as oranges lemons grapefruits or mandarins vegetables such as spinach lettuce asparagus cabbages carrots onions tomatoes potatoes cucurbits or paprika lauraceous plants such as avocados cinnamon or camphor energy and raw material plants such as corn soybean rape sugar cane or oil palm corn tobacco nuts coffee tea bananas vines table grapes and grape juice grape vines hop turf sweet leaf also called Stevia natural rubber plants or ornamental and forestry plants such as flowers shrubs broad leaved trees or evergreens e.g. conifers and on the plant propagation material such as seeds and the crop material of these plants. Preferably compounds I and compositions thereof respectively are used for controlling a multitude of fungi on field crops such as potatoes sugar beets tobacco wheat rye barley oats rice corn cotton soybeans rape legumes sunflowers coffee or sugar cane fruits vines ornamentals or vegetables such as cucumbers tomatoes beans or squashes.

The term plant propagation material is to be understood to denote all the generative parts of the plant such as seeds and vegetative plant material such as cuttings and tubers e.g. potatoes which can be used for the multiplication of the plant. This includes seeds roots fruits tubers bulbs rhizomes shoots sprouts and other parts of plants including seedlings and young plants which are to be transplanted after germination or after emergence from soil. These young plants may also be protected before transplantation by a total or partial treatment by immersion or pouring.

Preferably treatment of plant propagation materials with compounds I and compositions thereof respectively is used for controlling a multitude of fungi on cereals such as wheat rye barley and oats rice corn cotton and soybeans.

The term cultivated plants is to be understood as including plants which have been modified by breeding mutagenesis or genetic engineering including but not limiting to agricultural biotech products on the market or in development cf. http cera gmc.org see GM crop database therein . Genetically modified plants are plants which genetic material has been so modified by the use of recombinant DNA techniques that under natural circumstances cannot readily be obtained by cross breeding mutations or natural recombination. Typically one or more genes have been integrated into the genetic material of a genetically modified plant in order to improve certain properties of the plant. Such genetic modifications also include but are not limited to targeted post translational modification of protein s oligo or polypeptides e.g. by glycosylation or polymer additions such as prenylated acetylated or farnesylated moieties or PEG moieties. Plants that have been modified by breeding mutagenesis or genetic engineering e.g. have been rendered tolerant to applications of specific classes of herbicides such as auxin herbicides such as dicamba or 2 4 D bleacher herbicides such as hydroxylphenylpyruvate dioxygenase HPPD inhibitors or phytoene desaturase PDS inhibitors acetolactate synthase ALS inhibitors such as sulfonyl ureas or imidazolinones enolpyruvylshikimate 3 phosphate synthase EPSPS inhibitors such as glyphosate glutamine synthetase GS inhibitors such as glufosinate protoporphyrinogen IX oxidase inhibitors lipid biosynthesis inhibitors such as acetyl CoA carboxylase ACCase inhibitors or oxynil i. e. bromoxynil or ioxynil herbicides as a result of conventional methods of breeding or genetic engineering. Furthermore plants have been made resistant to multiple classes of herbicides through multiple genetic modifications such as resistance to both glyphosate and glufosinate or to both glyphosate and a herbicide from another class such as ALS inhibitors HPPD inhibitors auxin herbicides or ACCase inhibitors. These herbicide resistance technologies are e.g. described in Pest Managem. Sci. 61 2005 246 61 2005 258 61 2005 277 61 2005 269 61 2005 286 64 2008 326 64 2008 332 Weed Sci. 57 2009 108 Austral. J. Agricult. Res. 58 2007 708 Science 316 2007 1185 and references quoted therein. Several cultivated plants have been rendered tolerant to herbicides by conventional methods of breeding mutagenesis e.g. Clearfield summer rape Canola BASF SE Germany being tolerant to imidazolinones e.g. imazamox or ExpressSun sunflowers DuPont USA being tolerant to sulfonyl ureas e.g. tribenuron. Genetic engineering methods have been used to render cultivated plants such as soybean cotton corn beets and rape tolerant to herbicides such as glyphosate and glufosinate some of which are commercially available under the trade names RoundupReady glyphosate tolerant Monsanto U.S.A. Cultivance imidazolinone tolerant BASF SE Germany and LibertyLink glufosinate tolerant Bayer CropScience Germany .

Furthermore plants are also covered that are by the use of recombinant DNA techniques capable to synthesize one or more insecticidal proteins especially those known from the bacterial genus particularly from such as endotoxins e.g. CryIA b CryIA c CryIF CryIF a2 CryIIA b CryIIIA CryIIIB b1 or Cry9c vegetative insecticidal proteins VIP e.g. VIP1 VIP2 VIP3 or VIP3A insecticidal proteins of bacteria colonizing nematodes e.g. spp. or spp. toxins produced by animals such as scorpion toxins arachnid toxins wasp toxins or other insect specific neurotoxins toxins produced by fungi such Streptomycetes toxins plant lectins such as pea or barley lectins agglutinins proteinase inhibitors such as trypsin inhibitors serine protease inhibitors patatin cystatin or papain inhibitors ribosome inactivating proteins RIP such as ricin maize RIP abrin luffin saporin or bryodin steroid metabolism enzymes such as 3 hydroxysteroid oxidase ecdysteroid IDP glycosyl transferase cholesterol oxidases ecdysone inhibitors or HMG CoA reductase ion channel blockers such as blockers of sodium or calcium channels juvenile hormone esterase diuretic hormone receptors helicokinin receptors stilben synthase bibenzyl synthase chitinases or glucanases. In the context of the present invention these insecticidal proteins or toxins are to be understood expressly also as pre toxins hybrid proteins truncated or otherwise modified proteins. Hybrid proteins are characterized by a new combination of protein domains see e.g. WO 02 015701 . Further examples of such toxins or genetically modified plants capable of synthesizing such toxins are disclosed e.g. in EP A 374 753 WO 93 007278 WO 95 34656 EP A 427 529 EP A 451 878 WO 03 18810 und WO 03 52073. The methods for producing such genetically modified plants are generally known to the person skilled in the art and are described e.g. in the publications mentioned above. These insecticidal proteins contained in the genetically modified plants impart to the plants producing these proteins tolerance to harmful pests from all taxonomic groups of athropods especially to beetles Coeloptera two winged insects Diptera and moths Lepidoptera and to nematodes Nematoda . Genetically modified plants capable to synthesize one or more insecticidal proteins are e.g. described in the publications mentioned above and some of which are commercially available such as YieldGard corn cultivars producing the Cry1Ab toxin YieldGard Plus corn cultivars producing Cry1Ab and Cry3Bb1 toxins Starlink corn cultivars producing the Cry9c toxin Herculex RW corn cultivars producing Cry34Ab1 Cry35Ab1 and the enzyme Phosphinothricin N Acetyltransferase PAT NuCOTN 33B cotton cultivars producing the Cry1Ac toxin Bollgard I cotton cultivars producing the Cry1Ac toxin Bollgard II cotton cultivars producing Cry1Ac and Cry2Ab2 toxins VIPCOT cotton cultivars producing a VIP toxin NewLeaf potato cultivars producing the Cry3A toxin Bt Xtra NatureGard KnockOut BiteGard Protecta Bt11 e.g. Agrisure CB and Bt176 from Syngenta Seeds SAS France corn cultivars producing the Cry1Ab toxin and PAT enzyme MIR604 from Syngenta Seeds SAS France corn cultivars producing a modified version of the Cry3A toxin c.f. WO 03 018810 MON 863 from Monsanto Europe S.A. Belgium corn cultivars producing the Cry3Bb1 toxin IPC 531 from Monsanto Europe S.A. Belgium cotton cultivars producing a modified version of the Cry1Ac toxin and 1507 from Pioneer Overseas Corporation Belgium corn cultivars producing the Cry1F toxin and PAT enzyme . Furthermore plants are also covered that are by the use of recombinant DNA techniques capable to synthesize one or more proteins to increase the resistance or tolerance of those plants to bacterial viral or fungal pathogens. Examples of such proteins are the so called pathogenesis related proteins PR proteins see e.g. EP A 392 225 plant disease resistance genes e.g. potato cultivars which express resistance genes acting against derived from the mexican wild potato or T4 lysozym e.g. potato cultivars capable of synthesizing these proteins with increased resistance against bacteria such as . The methods for producing such genetically modified plants are generally known to the person skilled in the art and are described e.g. in the publications mentioned above.

Furthermore plants are also covered that are by the use of recombinant DNA techniques capable to synthesize one or more proteins to increase the productivity e.g. bio mass production grain yield starch content oil content or protein content tolerance to drought salinity or other growth limiting environmental factors or tolerance to pests and fungal bacterial or viral pathogens of those plants.

Furthermore plants are also covered that contain by the use of recombinant DNA techniques a modified amount of substances of content or new substances of content specifically to improve human or animal nutrition e.g. oil crops that produce health promoting long chain omega 3 fatty acids or unsaturated omega 9 fatty acids e.g. Nexera rape DOW Agro Sciences Canada .

Furthermore plants are also covered that contain by the use of recombinant DNA techniques a modified amount of substances of content or new substances of content specifically to improve raw material production e.g. potatoes that produce increased amounts of amylopectin e.g. Amflora potato BASF SE Germany .

The compounds I and compositions thereof respectively are particularly suitable for controlling the following plant diseases 

The term plant health is to be understood to denote a condition of the plant and or its products which is determined by several indicators alone or in combination with each other such as yield e.g. increased biomass and or increased content of valuable ingredients plant vigor e.g. improved plant growth and or greener leaves greening effect quality e.g. improved content or composition of certain ingredients and tolerance to abiotic and or biotic stress. The above identified indicators for the health condition of a plant may be interdependent or may result from each other.

The compounds of formula I can be present in different crystal modifications whose biological activity may differ. They are likewise subject matter of the present invention.

The compounds I are employed as such or in form of compositions by treating the fungi or the plants plant propagation materials such as seeds soil surfaces materials or rooms to be protected from fungal attack with a fungicidally effective amount of the active substances. The application can be carried out both before and after the infection of the plants plant propagation materials such as seeds soil surfaces materials or rooms by the fungi.

Plant propagation materials may be treated with compounds I as such or a composition comprising at least one compound I prophylactically either at or before planting or transplanting. The invention also relates to agrochemical compositions comprising an auxiliary and at least one compound I according to the invention.

An agrochemical composition comprises a fungicidally effective amount of a compound I. The term effective amount denotes an amount of the composition or of the compounds I which is sufficient for controlling harmful fungi on cultivated plants or in the protection of materials and which does not result in a substantial damage to the treated plants. Such an amount can vary in a broad range and is dependent on various factors such as the fungal species to be controlled the treated cultivated plant or material the climatic conditions and the specific compound I used.

The compounds I their N oxides and salts can be converted into customary types of agrochemical compositions e.g. solutions emulsions suspensions dusts powders pastes granules pressings capsules and mixtures thereof. Examples for composition types are suspensions e.g. SC OD FS emulsifiable concentrates e.g. EC emulsions e.g. EW EO ES ME capsules e.g. CS ZC pastes pastilles wettable powders or dusts e.g. WP SP WS DP DS pressings e.g. BR TB DT granules e.g. WG SG GR FG GG MG insecticidal articles e.g. LN as well as gel formulations for the treatment of plant propagation materials such as seeds e.g. GF . These and further compositions types are defined in the Catalogue of pesticide formulation types and international coding system Technical Monograph No. 2 6Ed. May 2008 CropLife International.

The compositions are prepared in a known manner such as described by Mollet and Grubemann Formulation technology Wiley VCH Weinheim 2001 or Knowles New developments in crop protection product formulation Agrow Reports DS243 T F Informa London 2005.

Suitable auxiliaries are solvents liquid carriers solid carriers or fillers surfactants dispersants emulsifiers wetters adjuvants solubilizers penetration enhancers protective colloids adhesion agents thickeners humectants repellents attractants feeding stimulants compatibilizers bactericides anti freezing agents anti foaming agents colorants tackifiers and binders.

Suitable solvents and liquid carriers are water and organic solvents such as mineral oil fractions of medium to high boiling point e.g. kerosene diesel oil oils of vegetable or animal origin aliphatic cyclic and aromatic hydrocarbons e.g. toluene paraffin tetrahydronaphthalene alkylated naphthalenes alcohols e.g. ethanol propanol butanol benzylalcohol cyclohexanol glycols DMSO ketones e.g. cyclohexanone esters e.g. lactates carbonates fatty acid esters gamma butyrolactone fatty acids phosphonates amines amides e.g. N methylpyrrolidone fatty acid dimethylamides and mixtures thereof.

Suitable solid carriers or fillers are mineral earths e.g. silicates silica gels talc kaolins limestone lime chalk clays dolomite diatomaceous earth bentonite calcium sulfate magnesium sulfate magnesium oxide polysaccharides e.g. cellulose starch fertilizers e.g. ammonium sulfate ammonium phosphate ammonium nitrate ureas products of vegetable origin e.g. cereal meal tree bark meal wood meal nutshell meal and mixtures thereof.

Suitable surfactants are surface active compounds such as anionic cationic nonionic and amphoteric surfactants block polymers polyelectrolytes and mixtures thereof. Such surfactants can be used as emulsifier dispersant solubilizer wetter penetration enhancer protective colloid or adjuvant. Examples of surfactants are listed in McCutcheon s Vol. 1 Emulsifiers Detergents McCutcheon s Directories Glen Rock USA 2008 International Ed. or North American Ed. .

Suitable anionic surfactants are alkali alkaline earth or ammonium salts of sulfonates sulfates phosphates carboxylates and mixtures thereof. Examples of sulfonates are alkylarylsulfonates diphenylsulfonates alpha olefin sulfonates lignine sulfonates sulfonates of fatty acids and oils sulfonates of ethoxylated alkylphenols sulfonates of alkoxylated arylphenols sulfonates of condensed naphthalenes sulfonates of dodecyl and tridecylbenzenes sulfonates of naphthalenes and alkylnaphthalenes sulfosuccinates or sulfosuccinamates. Examples of sulfates are sulfates of fatty acids and oils of ethoxylated alkylphenols of alcohols of ethoxylated alcohols or of fatty acid esters. Examples of phosphates are phosphate esters. Examples of carboxylates are alkyl carboxylates and carboxylated alcohol or alkylphenol ethoxylates.

Suitable nonionic surfactants are alkoxylates N substituted fatty acid amides amine oxides esters sugar based surfactants polymeric surfactants and mixtures thereof. Examples of alkoxylates are compounds such as alcohols alkylphenols amines amides arylphenols fatty acids or fatty acid esters which have been alkoxylated with 1 to 50 equivalents. Ethylene oxide and or propylene oxide may be employed for the alkoxylation preferably ethylene oxide. Examples of N substituted fatty acid amides are fatty acid glucamides or fatty acid alkanolamides. Examples of esters are fatty acid esters glycerol esters or monoglycerides. Examples of sugar based surfactants are sorbitans ethoxylated sorbitans sucrose and glucose esters or alkylpolyglucosides. Examples of polymeric surfactants are home or copolymers of vinylpyrrolidone vinylalcohols or vinylacetate.

Suitable cationic surfactants are quaternary surfactants for example quaternary ammonium compounds with one or two hydrophobic groups or salts of long chain primary amines. Suitable amphoteric surfactants are alkylbetains and imidazolines. Suitable block polymers are block polymers of the A B or A B A type comprising blocks of polyethylene oxide and polypropylene oxide or of the A B C type comprising alkanol polyethylene oxide and polypropylene oxide.

Suitable polyelectrolytes are polyacids or polybases. Examples of polyacids are alkali salts of polyacrylic acid or polyacid comb polymers. Examples of polybases are polyvinylamines or polyethyleneamines.

Suitable adjuvants are compounds which have a neglectable or even no pesticidal activity themselves and which improve the biological performance of the compound I on the target. Examples are surfactants mineral or vegetable oils and other auxilaries. Further examples are listed by Knowles Adjuvants and additives Agrow Reports DS256 T F Informa UK 2006 chapter 5.

Suitable thickeners are polysaccharides e.g. xanthan gum carboxymethylcellulose anorganic clays organically modified or unmodified polycarboxylates and silicates.

Suitable bactericides are bronopol and isothiazolinone derivatives such as alkylisothiazolinones and benzisothiazolinones.

Suitable colorants e.g. in red blue or green are pigments of low water solubility and water soluble dyes. Examples are inorganic colorants e.g. iron oxide titan oxide iron hexacyanoferrate and organic colorants e.g. alizarin azo and phthalocyanine colorants .

Suitable tackifiers or binders are polyvinylpyrrolidons polyvinylacetates polyvinyl alcohols polyacrylates biological or synthetic waxes and cellulose ethers.

10 60 wt of a compound I and 5 15 wt wetting agent e.g. alcohol alkoxylates are dissolved in water and or in a water soluble solvent e.g. alcohols ad 100 wt . The active substance dissolves upon dilution with water.

5 25 wt of a compound I and 1 10 wt dispersant e.g. polyvinylpyrrolidone are dissolved in organic solvent e.g. cyclohexanone ad 100 wt . Dilution with water gives a dispersion.

15 70 wt of a compound I and 5 10 wt emulsifiers e.g. calcium dodecylbenzenesulfonate and castor oil ethoxylate are dissolved in water insoluble organic solvent e.g. aromatic hydrocarbon ad 100 wt . Dilution with water gives an emulsion.

5 40 wt of a compound I and 1 10 wt emulsifiers e.g. calcium dodecylbenzenesulfonate and castor oil ethoxylate are dissolved in 20 40 wt water insoluble organic solvent e.g. aromatic hydrocarbon . This mixture is introduced into water ad 100 wt by means of an emulsifying machine and made into a homogeneous emulsion. Dilution with water gives an emulsion.

In an agitated ball mill 20 60 wt of a compound I are comminuted with addition of 2 10 wt dispersants and wetting agents e.g. sodium lignosulfonate and alcohol ethoxylate 0.1 2 wt thickener e.g. xanthan gum and water ad 100 wt to give a fine active substance suspension. Dilution with water gives a stable suspension of the active substance. For FS type composition up to 40 wt binder e.g. polyvinylalcohol is added.

50 80 wt of a compound I are ground finely with addition of dispersants and wetting agents e.g. sodium lignosulfonate and alcohol ethoxylate ad 100 wt and prepared as water dispersible or water soluble granules by means of technical appliances e.g. extrusion spray tower fluidized bed . Dilution with water gives a stable dispersion or solution of the active substance.

50 80 wt of a compound I are ground in a rotor stator mill with addition of 1 5 wt dispersants e.g. sodium lignosulfonate 1 3 wt wetting agents e.g. alcohol ethoxylate and solid carrier e.g. silica gel ad 100 wt . Dilution with water gives a stable dispersion or solution of the active substance.

In an agitated ball mill 5 25 wt of a compound I are comminuted with addition of 3 10 wt dispersants e.g. sodium lignosulfonate 1 5 wt thickener e.g. carboxymethylcellulose and water ad 100 wt to give a fine suspension of the active substance. Dilution with water gives a stable suspension of the active substance.

5 20 wt of a compound I are added to 5 30 wt organic solvent blend e.g. fatty acid dimethylamide and cyclohexanone 10 25 wt surfactant blend e.g. alcohol ethoxylate and arylphenol ethoxylate and water ad 100 . This mixture is stirred for 1 h to produce spontaneously a thermodynamically stable microemulsion.

An oil phase comprising 5 50 wt of a compound I 0 40 wt water insoluble organic solvent e.g. aromatic hydrocarbon 2 15 wt acrylic monomers e.g. methylmethacrylate methacrylic acid and a di or triacrylate are dispersed into an aqueous solution of a protective colloid e.g. polyvinyl alcohol . Radical polymerization initiated by a radical initiator results in the formation of poly meth acrylate microcapsules. Alternatively an oil phase comprising 5 50 wt of a compound I according to the invention 0 40 wt water insoluble organic solvent e.g. aromatic hydrocarbon and an isocyanate monomer e.g. diphenylmethene 4 4 diisocyanatae are dispersed into an aqueous solution of a protective colloid e.g. polyvinyl alcohol . The addition of a polyamine e.g. hexamethylenediamine results in the formation of polyurea microcapsules. The monomers amount to 1 10 wt . The wt relate to the total CS composition.

1 10 wt of a compound I are ground finely and mixed intimately with solid carrier e.g. finely divided kaolin ad 100 wt .

0.5 30 wt of a compound I is ground finely and associated with solid carrier e.g. silicate ad 100 wt . Granulation is achieved by extrusion spray drying or fluidized bed.

The compositions types i to xiii may optionally comprise further auxiliaries such as 0.1 1 wt bactericides 5 15 wt anti freezing agents 0.1 1 wt anti foaming agents and 0.1 1 wt colorants.

The agrochemical compositions generally comprise between 0.01 and 95 preferably between 0.1 and 90 and in particular between 0.5 and 75 by weight of active substance. The active substances are employed in a purity of from 90 to 100 preferably from 95 to 100 according to NMR spectrum .

Solutions for seed treatment LS Suspoemulsions SE flowable concentrates FS powders for dry treatment DS water dispersible powders for slurry treatment WS water soluble powders SS emulsions ES emulsifiable concentrates EC and gels GF are usually employed for the purposes of treatment of plant propagation materials particularly seeds. The compositions in question give after two to tenfold dilution active substance concentrations of from 0.01 to 60 by weight preferably from 0.1 to 40 in the ready to use preparations. Application can be carried out before or during sowing. Methods for applying compound I and compositions thereof respectively on to plant propagation material especially seeds include dressing coating pelleting dusting soaking and in furrow application methods of the propagation material. Preferably compound I or the compositions thereof respectively are applied on to the plant propagation material by a method such that germination is not induced e.g. by seed dressing pelleting coating and dusting.

When employed in plant protection the amounts of active substances applied are depending on the kind of effect desired from 0.001 to 2 kg per ha preferably from 0.005 to 2 kg per ha more preferably from 0.05 to 0.9 kg per ha and in particular from 0.1 to 0.75 kg per ha.

In treatment of plant propagation materials such as seeds e.g. by dusting coating or drenching seed amounts of active substance of from 0.1 to 1000 g preferably from 1 to 1000 g more preferably from 1 to 100 g and most preferably from 5 to 100 g per 100 kilogram of plant propagation material preferably seeds are generally required.

When used in the protection of materials or stored products the amount of active substance applied depends on the kind of application area and on the desired effect. Amounts customarily applied in the protection of materials are 0.001 g to 2 kg preferably 0.005 g to 1 kg of active substance per cubic meter of treated material.

Various types of oils wetters adjuvants fertilizer or micronutrients and further pesticides e.g. herbicides insecticides fungicides growth regulators safeners may be added to the active substances or the compositions comprising them as premix or if appropriate not until immediately prior to use tank mix . These agents can be admixed with the compositions according to the invention in a weight ratio of 1 100 to 100 1 preferably 1 10 to 10 1.

The user applies the composition according to the invention usually from a predosage device a knapsack sprayer a spray tank a spray plane or an irrigation system. Usually the agrochemical composition is made up with water buffer and or further auxiliaries to the desired application concentration and the ready to use spray liquor or the agrochemical composition according to the invention is thus obtained. Usually 20 to 2000 liters preferably 50 to 400 liters of the ready to use spray liquor are applied per hectare of agricultural useful area.

According to one embodiment individual components of the composition according to the invention such as parts of a kit or parts of a binary or ternary mixture may be mixed by the user himself in a spray tank and further auxiliaries may be added if appropriate.

Mixing the compounds I or the compositions comprising them in the use form as fungicides with other fungicides results in many cases in an expansion of the fungicidal spectrum of activity being obtained or in a prevention of fungicide resistance development. Furthermore in many cases synergistic effects are obtained.

The following list of active substances in conjunction with which the compounds I can be used is intended to illustrate the possible combinations but does not limit them 

abscisic acid amidochlor ancymidol 6 benzylaminopurine brassinolide butralin chlormequat chlormequat chloride choline chloride cyclanilide daminozide dikegulac dimethipin 2 6 dimethylpuridine ethephon flumetralin flurprimidol fluthiacet forchlorfenuron gibberellic acid inabenfide indole 3 acetic acid maleic hydrazide mefluidide mepiquat mepiquat chloride naphthaleneacetic acid N 6 benzyladenine paclobutrazol prohexadione prohexadione calcium prohydrojasmon thidiazuron triapenthenol tributyl phosphorotrithioate 2 3 5 tri iodobenzoic acid trinexapac ethyl and uniconazole 

The present invention furthermore relates to agrochemical compositions comprising a mixture of at least one compound I component 1 and at least one further active substance useful for plant protection e.g. selected from the groups A to O component 2 in particular one further fungicide e.g. one or more fungicide from the groups A to L as described above and if desired one suitable solvent or solid carrier. Those mixtures are of particular interest since many of them at the same application rate show higher efficiencies against harmful fungi. Furthermore combating harmful fungi with a mixture of compounds I and at least one fungicide from groups A to L as described above is more efficient than combating those fungi with individual compounds I or individual fungicides from groups A to L . By applying compounds I together with at least one active substance from groups A to O a synergistic effect can be obtained i.e. more then simple addition of the individual effects is obtained synergistic mixtures .

This can be obtained by applying the compounds I and at least one further active substance simultaneously either jointly e.g. as tank mix or separately or in succession wherein the time interval between the individual applications is selected to ensure that the active substance applied first still occurs at the site of action in a sufficient amount at the time of application of the further active substance s . The order of application is not essential for working of the present invention.

In binary mixtures i.e. compositions according to the invention comprising one compound I component 1 and one further active substance component 2 e.g. one active substance from groups A to O the weight ratio of component 1 and component 2 generally depends from the properties of the active substances used usually it is in the range of from 1 100 to 100 1 regularly in the range of from 1 50 to 50 1 preferably in the range of from 1 20 to 20 1 more preferably in the range of from 1 10 to 10 1 and in particular in the range of from 1 3 to 3 1. In ternary mixtures i.e. compositions according to the invention comprising one compound I component 1 and a first further active substance component 2 and a second further active substance component 3 e.g. two active substances from groups A to O the weight ratio of component 1 and component 2 depends from the properties of the active substances used preferably it is in the range of from 1 50 to 50 1 and particularly in the range of from 1 10 to 10 1 and the weight ratio of component 1 and component 3 preferably is in the range of from 1 50 to 50 1 and particularly in the range of from 1 10 to 10 1.

Preference is also given to mixtures comprising a compound I component 1 and at least one active substance selected from group A component 2 and particularly selected from azoxystrobin dimoxystrobin fluoxastrobin kresoxim methyl orysastrobin picoxystrobin pyraclostrobin trifloxystrobin famoxadone fenamidone benzovindiflupyr bixafen boscalid fluopyram fluxapyroxad isopyrazam penflufen penthiopyrad sedaxane ametoctradin cyazofamid fluazinam fentin salts such as fentin acetate.

Preference is given to mixtures comprising a compound of formula I component 1 and at least one active substance selected from group B component 2 and particularly selected from cyproconazole difenoconazole epoxiconazole fluquinconazole flusilazole flutriafol metconazole myclobutanil penconazole propiconazole prothioconazole triadimefon triadimenol tebuconazole tetraconazole triticonazole prochloraz fenarimol triforine dodemorph fenpropimorph tridemorph fenpropidin spiroxamine fenhexamid.

Preference is given to mixtures comprising a compound of formula I component 1 and at least one active substance selected from group C component 2 and particularly selected from metalaxyl metalaxyl M mefenoxam ofurace.

Preference is given to mixtures comprising a compound of formula I component 1 and at least one active substance selected from group D component 2 and particularly selected from benomyl carbendazim thiophanate methyl ethaboxam fluopicolide zoxamide metrafenone pyriofenone.

Preference is also given to mixtures comprising a compound I component 1 and at least one active substance selected from group E component 2 and particularly selected from cyprodinil mepanipyrim pyrimethanil.

Preference is also given to mixtures comprising a compound I component 1 and at least one active substance selected from group F component 2 and particularly selected from iprodione fludioxonil vinclozolin quinoxyfen.

Preference is also given to mixtures comprising a compound I component 1 and at least one active substance selected from group G component 2 and particularly selected from dimethomorph flumorph iprovalicarb benthiavalicarb mandipropamid propamocarb.

Preference is also given to mixtures comprising a compound I component 1 and at least one active substance selected from group H component 2 and particularly selected from copper acetate copper hydroxide copper oxychloride copper sulfate sulfur mancozeb metiram propineb thiram captafol folpet chlorothalonil dichlofluanid dithianon.

Preference is also given to mixtures comprising a compound I component 1 and at least one active substance selected from group I component 2 and particularly selected from carpropamid and fenoxanil.

Preference is also given to mixtures comprising a compound I component 1 and at least one active substance selected from group J component 2 and particularly selected from acibenzolar S methyl probenazole tiadinil fosetyl fosetyl aluminium HPOand salts thereof.

Preference is also given to mixtures comprising a compound I component 1 and at least one active substance selected from group K component 2 and particularly selected from cymoxanil proquinazid and N methyl 2 1 5 methyl 3 trifluoromethyl 1H pyrazol 1 yl acetyl piperidin 4 yl N 1R 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthalen 1 yl 4 thiazolecarboxamide.

Preference is also given to mixtures comprising a compound I component 1 and at least one active substance selected from group L component 2 and particularly selected from strain NRRL No. B 21661 strain NRRL No. B 30087 and

Accordingly the present invention furthermore relates to compositions comprising one compound I component 1 and one further active substance component 2 which further active substance is selected from the column Component 2 of the lines C 1 to C 381 of Table C.

A further embodiment relates to the compositions C 1 to C 381 listed in Table C where a row of Table C corresponds in each case to a fungicidal composition comprising one of the in the present specification individualized compounds of formula I component 1 and the respective further active substance from groups A to O component 2 stated in the row in question. Preferably the compositions described comprise the active substances in synergistically effective amounts.

The active substances referred to as component 2 their preparation and their activity against harmful fungi is known cf. http www.alanwood.net pesticides these substances are commercially available. The compounds described by IUPAC nomenclature their preparation and their fungicidal activity are also known cf. Can. J. Plant Sci. 48 6 587 94 1968 EP A 141 317 EP A 152 031 EP A 226 917 EP A 243 970 EP A 256 503 EP A 428 941 EP A 532 022 EP A 1 028 125 EP A 1 035 122 EP A 1 201 648 EP A 1 122 244 JP 2002316902 DE 19650197 DE 10021412 DE 102005009458 U.S. Pat. No. 3 296 272 U.S. Pat. No. 3 325 503 WO 98 46608 WO 99 14187 WO 99 24413 WO 99 27783 WO 00 29404 WO 00 46148 WO 00 65913 WO 01 54501 WO 01 56358 WO 02 22583 WO 02 40431 WO 03 10149 WO 03 11853 WO 03 14103 WO 03 16286 WO 03 53145 WO 03 61388 WO 03 66609 WO 03 74491 WO 04 49804 WO 04 83193 WO 05 120234 WO 05 123689 WO 05 123690 WO 05 63721 WO 05 87772 WO 05 87773 WO 06 15866 WO 06 87325 WO 06 87343 WO 07 82098 WO 07 90624 WO 11 028657 WO2012 168188 WO 2007 006670 PCT EP2012 065650 and PCT EP2012 065651 .

The mixtures of active substances can be prepared as compositions comprising besides the active ingredients at least one inert ingredient by usual means e.g. by the means given for the compositions of compounds I.

Concerning usual ingredients of such compositions reference is made to the explanations given for the compositions containing compounds I.

The mixtures of active substances according to the present invention are suitable as fungicides as are the compounds of formula I. They are distinguished by an outstanding effectiveness against a broad spectrum of phytopathogenic fungi especially from the classes of the Ascomycetes Basidiomycetes Deuteromycetes and Peronosporomycetes syn. Oomycetes . In addition it is referred to the explanations regarding the fungicidal activity of the compounds and the compositions containing compounds I respectively.

With appropriate modification of the starting materials the procedures given in the synthesis examples below were used to obtain further compounds I. The compounds produced in this manner are listed in Table I below including corresponding physical data. 4 Chloro 6 ethyl 5 pyrimidinecarboxylic acid ethyl ester was synthesized according to a procedure given in U.S. Pat. No. 5 439 911 A. 4 Chloro 6 methyl 5 pyrimidinecarboxylic acid methyl ester was prepared as described in EP 606011 A1.

To a solution of 4 iodophenol 200 g 910 mmol in N N dimethylformamide 1 L was slowly added sodium hydride 47 g 1.2 mol . The reaction was stirred for 30 min at room temperature then 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylpyridine 165 g 910 mmol was added and the solution was stirred at 110 C. for 4 h and 12 h at room temperature. The reaction solution was poured into water and extracted with methyl tert butylether 3 . The combined organic layers were washed successively with water lithium chloride solution and 10 sodium hydroxide solution. The combined organic phases were then dried over sodium sulfate and the solvent was removed in vacuo to afford 91 303 g 830 mmol yield of 2 4 iodophenoxy 4 trifluoromethyl pyridine.

To a solution of 2 4 iodophenoxy 4 trifluoromethyl pyridine 102 g 279 mmol in tetrahydrofuran 500 mL was added triethylamine 84 g 838 mmol copper I iodide 0.53 g 3 mmol and Pd PPh Cl 2 g 3 mmol followed by pent 4 yn 2 ol 28 g 335 mmol . The reaction was stirred at room temperature for 1 h and was then filtered over celite followed by rinsing with methyl tert butylether. Water and methyl tert butylether were then added to the filtrate. The organic layer was separated and concentrated in vacuo to provide 93 g of crude 5 4 4 trifluoromethyl 2 pyridyl oxy phenyl pent 4 yn 2 ol. This material was redissolved in dichloromethane 1 L and triethylamine 58 g 576 mmol . The reaction solution was cooled to 5 C. and methyanesulfonyl chloride 42 g 288 mmol was added. The solution was allowed to warm to room temperature overnight. The reaction solution was poured into water and extracted with dichloromethane. The combined organic layers were dried over sodium sulfate and the solvent was then removed in vacuo to afford 121 g of the crude mesylate. The crude product was redissolved in N N dimethylformamide 600 mL to which sodium azide was added 94 g 1.4 mol . The reaction solution was heated to 80 C. for 2 h then cooled to room temperature. Water and methyl tert butylether were added the organic layers were combined and concentrated in vacuo to provide 91 g of the crude azide product. The azide was dissolved in methanol 700 mL to which was added tin II chloride HO 118 g 523 mmol . The reaction was stirred at room temperature overnight and was then concentrated. To the residue was added 10 sodium hydroxide solution and the crude product was extracted with dichloromethane before it was dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated in vacuo. The residue was filtered over a silica gel plug to provide 96 of the desired product.

To a solution of 5 4 4 trifluoromethyl 2 pyridyl oxy phenyl pent 4 yn 2 amine 268 mg 0.84 mmol in N N dimethylformamide 5 mL was added diisopropylethylamine 216 mg 1.7 mmol . The solution was stirred for 5 min at room temperature at which time 4 6 dichloro 5 methoxypyrimidine 150 mg 0.84 mmol was added. The reaction mixture was stirred at 80 C. overnight then allowed to cool to room temperature. It was concentrated in vacuo and filtered over a plug of silica gel to provide 215 mg 0.47 mmol 55 of the brown oily product.

The spray solutions were prepared in several steps The stock solution were prepared a mixture of acetone and or dimethylsulfoxide and the wetting agent emulsifier Wettol which is based on ethoxylated alkylphenoles in a relation volume solvent emulsifier of 99 to 1 was added to 25 mg of the compound to give a total of 5 ml. Water was then added to total volume of 100 ml.

This stock solution was diluted with the described solvent emulsifier water mixture to the given concentration.

After the final cultivation period the extent of fungal attack on the leaves was visually assessed as diseased leaf area.

Young seedlings of tomato plants were grown in pots. These plants were sprayed to run off with an aqueous suspension containing the concentration of active ingredient or their mixture mentioned in the table below. The next day the treated plants were inoculated with an aqueous suspension of sporangia of . After inoculation the trial plants were immediately transferred to a humid chamber. After 6 days at 18 to 20 C. and a relative humidity close to 100 the extent of fungal attack on the leaves was visually assessed as diseased leaf area.

In this test the plants which had been treated with 250 ppm of the active compound I 5 I 11 I 14 I 20 I 23 I 27 I 31 I 34 I 35 I 37 I 44 I 47 I 48 I 50 I 56 I 59 I 65 I 66 I 67 I 70 I 71 I 79 I 81 or I 82 showed a diseased leaf area of at most 20 whereas the untreated plants showed 84 diseased leaf area.

Leaves of pot grown wheat seedling were sprayed to run off with an aqueous suspension of the active compound or their mixture prepared as described. The plants were allowed to air dry. At the following day the plants were inoculated with an aqueous spore suspension of Then the trial plants were immediately transferred to a humid chamber at 18 to 22 C. and a relative humidity close to 100 . After 4 days the plants were transferred to a chamber with 18 to 22 C. and a relative humidity close to 70 . After 4 weeks the extent of fungal attack on the leaves was visually assessed as diseased leaf area.

In this test the plants which had been treated with 250 ppm of the active compound I 1 I 3 I 4 I 5 I 7 I 8 I 9 I 10 I 13 I 14 I 15 I 16 I 17 I 18 I 19 I 20 I 21 I 22 I 23 I 24 I 25 I 26 I 27 I 28 I 29 I 30 I 31 I 32 I 33 I 34 I 35 I 36 I 37 I 38 I 40 I 42 I 43 I 44 I 45 I 46 I 47 I 48 I 49 I 50 I 51 I 52 I 53 I 54 I 55 I 56 I 57 I 58 I 59 I 60 I 61 I 62 I 63 I 64 I 69 I 72 I 74 I 75 or I 76 showed a diseased leaf area of at most 20 whereas the untreated plants showed 92 diseased leaf area.

The first two developed leaves of pot grown wheat seedling were sprayed to run off with an aqueous suspension containing the concentration of active ingredient or their mixture as described below. The next day the plants were inoculated with spores of . To ensure the success the artificial inoculation the plants were transferred to a humid chamber without light and a relative humidity of 95 to 99 and 20 to 24 C. for 24 h. Then the trial plants were cultivated for 6 days in a greenhouse chamber at 20 to 24 C. and a relative humidity between 65 and 70 . The extent of fungal attack on the leaves was visually assessed as diseased leaf area.

In this test the plants which had been treated with 250 ppm of the active compound I 1 I 3 I 4 I 5 I 6 I 8 I 9 I 11 I 12 I 13 I 14 I 15 I 17 I 19 I 20 I 21 I 23 I 24 I 25 I 26 I 27 I 28 I 29 I 34 I 45 I 46 I 47 I 48 I 49 I 50 I 51 I 52 I 54 I 56 I 57 I 58 I 59 I 60 I 62 I 64 I 69 or I 73 showed a diseased leaf area of at most 20 whereas the untreated plants showed 86 diseased leaf area.

Leaves of pot grown soy bean seedlings were sprayed to run off with an aqueous suspension containing the concentration of active ingredient or their mixture as described below. The plants were allowed to air dry. The trial plants were cultivated for 1 day in a greenhouse chamber at 23 to 27 C. and a relative humidity between 60 and 80 . Then the plants were inoculated with spores of To ensure the success the artificial inoculation the plants were transferred to a humid chamber with a relative humidity of about 95 and 20 to 24 C. for 24 h. The trial plants were cultivated for fourteen days in a greenhouse chamber at 23 to 27 C. and a relative humidity between 60 and 80 . The extent of fungal attack on the leaves was visually assessed as diseased leaf area.

In this test the plants which had been treated with 250 ppm of the active compound I 2 I 4 I 9 I 10 I 18 I 20 I 22 I 27 I 29 I 30 I 31 I 31 I 33 I 36 I 37 I 39 I 42 I 43 I 46 I 48 I 49 I 50 I 51 I 52 I 55 I 56 I 58 I 59 I 62 I 64 I 65 I 66 I 67 I 68 I 69 I 71 I 73 I 77 I 80 or I 82 showed a diseased leaf area of at most 15 whereas the untreated plants showed 94 diseased leaf area.

Young seedlings of green pepper were grown in pots to the 4 to 5 leaf stage. These plants were sprayed to run off with an aqueous suspension containing the concentration of active ingredient or their mixture mentioned in the table below. The next day the plants were inoculated with a aqueous biomalt solution containing the spore suspension of . Then the plants were immediately transferred to a humid chamber and kept for 5 days at 22 to 24 C. and a relative humidity close to 100 .

In this test the plants which had been treated with 250 ppm of the active compound I 2 I 18 I 22 I 27 I 29 I 33 I 35 I 36 I 39 I 41 I 42 I 43 I 60 or I 74 showed a diseased leaf area of at most 15 whereas the untreated plants showed 95 diseased leaf area.

Young seedlings of tomato plants were grown in pots. These plants were sprayed to run off with an aqueous suspension containing the concentration of active ingredient or their mixture mentioned in the table below. After seven days the treated plants were inoculated with an aqueous suspension of sporangia of . After inoculation the trial plants were immediately transferred to a humid chamber and kept for 6 days at 18 to 20 C. and a relative humidity close to 100 .

In this test the plants which had been treated with 250 ppm of the active compound I 27 I 29 I 35 I 37 I 44 I 45 I 47 I 48 I 49 I 50 I 56 I 59 I 65 I 66 I 67 I 70 or I 78 showed a diseased leaf area of at most 20 whereas the untreated plants showed 67 diseased leaf area.

