---

title: Method of forming a single common laser resonator cavity and an optically segmented composite gain medium
abstract: A compact solid state laser that generates multiple wavelengths and multiple beams that are parallel, i.e., bore-sighted relative to each other, is disclosed. Each of the multiple laser beams can be at a different wavelength, pulse energy, pulse length, repetition rate and average power. Each of the laser beams can be turned on or off independently. The laser is comprised of an optically segmented gain section, common laser resonator with common surface segmented cavity mirrors, optically segmented pump laser, and different intra-cavity elements in each laser segment.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08488638&OS=08488638&RS=08488638
owner: The United States of America as Represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 08488638
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130103
---
This is a divisional patent application of copending application Ser. No. 13 053 422 filed Mar. 22 2011 entitled Compact Multi Wavelength and Multi Beam Laser. The aforementioned application is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

The invention described herein may be manufactured used sold imported and or licensed by or for the Government of the United States of America.

This invention relates in general to lasers and more particularly to multi wavelength and multi beam lasers.

Specific laser applications such as laser designation laser range finding laser illumination and laser marking and pulsed illuminators for active imaging require separate laser devices each optimized for the corresponding use. Each laser device typically comes with its own housing electronics and power supply batteries. Although a multi wavelength multipurpose laser could be constructed by integrating these laser devices into a single system the use of many separate sets of housing electronics and power supplies would result in a system that is complex heavy and bulky. In addition such integration approach would require using multiple telescopes one for every laser in the system or the combining of outputs of all lasers into a single beam to be transmitted through a single telescope. Both of these methods would require careful bore sighting of all of the beams relative to each other and maintaining such alignment over a large military spec temperature range and vibration and shock exposure. The need for such beam combiner and or multiple telescopes would further add to the complexity weight and size of the multi wavelength laser system. These deficiencies would make a multi wavelength laser system that is comprised of separate individual lasers too large and complex to be useful. This is particularly true when a laser system needs to be hand held rifle mounted or be mounted in a small unmanned air vehicles UAVs and unmanned ground vehicles GUVs .

U.S. Pat. No. 5 675 595 relates to a composite multiple wavelength laser material and multiple wavelength laser for use therewith U.S. Pat. No. 4 494 235 relates to a multiple wavelength laser and U.S. Pat. No. 5 331 649 relates to a multiple wavelength laser system. These patents do not teach generating multiple beams with different wavelengths pulse energies pulse repetition rates. Further they are not known to teach control of the output energy and power of each laser independently.

In one aspect a compact multi wavelength and multi beam laser is disclosed. Such a multi wavelength and multi beam laser comprises an optically segmented composite gain medium a single common laser resonator defined by a first common surface mirror and a second common surface mirror at least one of said common surface mirrors being configured as a common surface segmented mirror a segmented laser diode pump and a set of intra cavity optical components uniquely configured per each laser beam of said multi beam laser arranged within the single laser resonator.

In another aspect an optically segmented composite gain medium is disclosed. Each segment of the composite gain medium functions as an optical waveguide for a respective pump light of a segmented laser diode pump array. Such an optically segmented composite gain medium comprises a plurality of gain medium sections each gain medium section being based on a selected gain material to function as an optical waveguide for the respective pump light and separation regions defined by a region separating adjacent regions of said plurality of gain medium sections for optical isolation based on a material of lower refractive index. The lower index material forms each separation region.

Yet in another aspect a method of forming a single common laser resonator cavity is disclosed based on the optically segmented composite gain medium. Such a method comprises disposing two common surface mirrors that are based on an optically flat reflector such that a common surface mirror is commonly shared by all of the laser segments formed by the separate gain segments of the optically segmented composite gain medium and other optical components arranged in each laser segment and angle aligning said two common surface mirrors relative to each other to form the single common laser resonator cavity an optical propagation axis through the resonator cavity being defined perpendicular to the mirrors. Each of the mirrors are flat within 1 20 of optical wavelength across the entire mirror surface.

An exemplary embodiment of a single laser is disclosed that generates emission in multiple beams multiple wavelengths and temporal characteristics required for the various applications enumerated above. All of the beams are generated in a single laser resonant cavity and are inherently bore sighted relative to each other removing the need to individually align the output angles of the separate beams. The relative bore sighting of the individual beams also makes it possible to use a single telescope to transmit all of the laser beams without the use of beam combiner. Other aspects of the exemplary laser embodiment are that each of the multiple laser beams can be at a vastly different from UV to mid infrared wavelength pulse energy pulse length repetition rate and average power. The power and or pulse energy of each laser beam can be separately controlled and turned on or off independently. Particularly for some applications such as eye safe range finding at 1550 nm residual emission from the other lasers operating at other wavelengths could preclude eye safe operation of the range finder. Such characteristics of the disclosed multi wavelength and multi beam laser system are made possible by using an exemplary laser embodiment comprised of an optically segmented gain section an optically segmented pump laser and common surface segmented cavity mirrors.

The configuration of such an exemplary embodiment of a multi wavelength multi beam laser is shown in . shows an exemplary side view configuration of the pertinent elements with a respective corresponding frontal view shown below selected elements. The disclosed exemplary multi wavelength multi beam laser embodiment is comprised of the following elements 

An exemplary gain medium with optically segmented composite structure is shown in . It is comprised of several gain medium sections e.g. and separated by material of lower refractive index the lower index material forming a separation isolation region . The refractive index step between the gain material and the lower refractive index region causes all light below the critical angle to be reflected at the boundary. This allows each gain section e.g. to function as an optical waveguide for the pump light e.g. pump light injected into each section is wave guided along the section e.g. or without coupling into the adjoining gain sections isolating the pump light in that section from that in the other sections. The divergence angle of the pump light propagating in the waveguide is assumed to be smaller than the critical reflection angle defined by the refractive index difference between the gain medium e.g. or and the lower refractive index material .

As an example the composite structure e.g. can be made of slabs or rods of Nd YAG Yb YAG Nd YVO Nd YLF Er Yb doped glass Er YAG separated by lower index epoxy or bonding glass resulting in a quasi monolithic composite gain structure. With this approach each section e.g. or can be made of a different gain material. The multi segment gain structure can also be made using a monolithic Nd YAG ceramic material in which the higher index Nd doped sections are surrounded by lower index un doped YAG. Alternatively another exemplary embodiment of a monolithic structure e.g. could be Er Yb doped phosphate silica glass rods surrounded by lower refractive index silica glass. The end faces of both the quasi monolithic and monolithic composite structures can be end polished and optically coated as a single piece simplifying the assembly. In addition this technique will result in end facets that are optically flat across all of the gain sections so that a common surface laser cavity mirror as explained below can be directly deposited on the composite gain structure. In another aspect an exemplary multi segment gain medium structure e.g. can also be fabricated by attaching the individual rods to each other or surrounding mechanical support using by small spacers and allowing the remaining surfaces to be surrounded by air. The small spacers are preferably made out of low index material to prevent pump light leakage out of each gain section or are sufficiently short that the leakage is negligibly small.

An exemplary embodiment of a single common laser resonator cavity is defined by two common surface mirrors e.g. as shown in and

The exemplary laser resonator is formed by two flat mirrors e.g. for precisely angle aligned relative to each other to form an optical resonator. An optical propagation axis for the laser light inside the resonator cavity is defined by the mirrors e.g. and is perpendicular to them. The common surface terminology refers to the fact that both mirrors e.g. constitute an optically flat reflector that is common or shared by all of the laser segments formed by the separate gain segments e.g. and other optical components e.g. combinations of intracavity optical components and or of as shown arranged in each laser segment. The mirrors are typically flat within 1 20 of optical wavelength across the entire mirror surface. Since the flat mirror laser resonator is common to all laser segments e.g. all of the laser beams propagate along the same optical axis in the laser and exit the laser cavity at same angle ensuring that all of the multiple laser output beams are bore sighted relative to each other. One of the common surface mirrors first mirror in or can be on a separate substrate as shown in or alternatively at least the first mirror can be deposited directly on the end facet of a monolithic or semi monolithic multi segment gain structure as shown in

One or both of the first and second common surface laser resonator mirrors can have separate sections or segments as shown in where such a mirror is comprised of e.g. four separate segments .

The reflectivity and spectral characteristics of each mirror segment or can be individually optimized for each corresponding laser segment of the multi wavelength laser. All of the mirror segments e.g. are deposited on an optically flat surface of the mirror substrate e.g. so reflections from all segments will be co aligned in angle. This feature assures that a laser resonant cavity will be optimally aligned for all of the lasers simultaneously. For a typical laser resonator defined by two flat mirrors this requires a mirror angular alignment accuracy of approximately 100 micro radians a precision that can be achieved with well established laser fabrication procedures.

An exemplary embodiment of a segmented laser diode pump array is comprised of several electrically isolated pump sections e.g. that can be activated individually. Each section in the segmented laser diode array such as a 4 section array shown in consists of a diode bar or a multi bar stack with all laser diodes mounted on a single common heat sink. All diode bars or diode stacks in an array section or are electrically isolated from those in other sections. This feature makes it possible to control the power output from each pump array section individually by controlling currents I I I Iflowing through each of the four sections respectively. By this means each corresponding laser segment in the multi wavelength laser of or can be activated separately.

If only one pump array segment is activated the other pump array sections are in off so that the corresponding laser segments of the multi wavelength laser are not activated and do not generate any laser emission. If the various gain section are made of different gain medium each section might require different pump wavelength. To accommodate this need each segment e.g. in the pump array can be made with different semiconductor laser diode composition so that each the emission wavelength of each is optimum for the corresponding laser segment in the multi wavelength laser.

Multiple laser segments are arranged within the multi wavelength single laser resonator as shown e.g. in and . Each laser segment e.g. or can be configured with a selected combination of pump laser wavelength and power gain medium common surface mirror reflectivity intra cavity optical elements e.g. . The specific combination of these components an exemplary configuration of intra cavity optical elements being referenced as is chosen to generate a desired laser emission wavelength pulse energy average power and temporal characteristics of pulse repletion frequency and pulse length. The intra cavity optical elements comprising an exemplary configuration of intra cavity optical elements can include but are not limited to a Q switch which can be either a saturable absorber such as Cr YAG for passive Q switching or an electro optical crystal such as LiNbOfor active Q switching a polarizer for defining the polarization state of the laser emission a non linear crystal for frequency conversion such as a KTP crystal for frequency doubling of 1064 nm emission or a KTP crystal for a Optical Parametric Oscillator OPO for converting 1064 nm emission to 1560 nm eye safe emission wavelength or 3.3 m mid IR emission spectrally selective filters to define the laser emission wavelength apertures to select spatial modes of the laser.

It is obvious that many modifications and variations of the present invention are possible in light of the above teachings. It is therefore to be understood that within the scope of the appended claims the invention may be practiced otherwise than as described.

