---

title: Device, system, and method of automatic financial-instrument management
abstract: Devices, systems, and methods of automatic Financial-Instrument (FI) management. In some embodiments, a system includes, a memory having stored thereon financial-instrument-based (FI-based) management instructions; and a processor to execute the FI-based management instructions resulting in a FI-based management application, wherein the FI-based management application may receive portfolio data corresponding to a plurality of financial-instrument portfolios associated with a plurality of clients, wherein the FI-based management application may automatically identify one or more portfolios of the plurality of portfolios satisfying at least one criterion, wherein, for each identified portfolio, the FI-based management application may receive client-specific management data corresponding to a client associated with the identified portfolio, wherein the client-specific management data includes at least client-specific destination information defining at least one destination, and wherein, for each identified portfolio, the FI-based management application may automatically communicate portfolio-related data corresponding to the identified portfolio to the destination defined by the management data.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09275416&OS=09275416&RS=09275416
owner: SUPER DERIVATIVES, INC.
number: 09275416
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130620
---
This application is a Continuation Application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 281 464 filed Oct. 26 2011 which is a Continuation Application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 472 051 filed May 26 2009 which in turn claims the benefit of and priority from U.S. Provisional Patent application 61 056 026 entitled Device system and method of financial instrument based customer relationship management filed May 26 2008 the entire disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference.

Some embodiments relate generally to the field of financial instruments and more particularly to automatic Financial Instrument FI management.

Financial instruments can be categorized by form depending for example on whether they are cash instruments or derivative instruments. Cash instruments are financial instruments whose value is determined directly by markets. Derivative instruments are financial instruments which derive their value from some other instrument or variable. Financial instruments can also be divided into exchange traded derivatives and over the counter OTC derivatives.

Sales and trading of financial instruments are sometimes a very profitable area of investment banking responsible for a large part of revenue for many financial institutions such as banks or brokers.

In the process of market making traders trading desk will buy and sell financial products with the goal of making an incremental amount of money on each trade.

A sales force e.g. a Bank s or broker s sales force may call on clients such as institutional and high net worth investors or corporations who need to hedge their risks to suggest possible trades and take orders. The term Structuring may relate to the creation of complex financial products which embed derivatives and as such typically may offer much greater margins and returns than underlying cash securities. Bank broker Sales and structuring desks commonly referred to as Sales may then communicate their clients orders to the appropriate trading desks who can price and execute trades or structure new products that fit a specific need.

Customer Relationship Management CRM is a systematic approach towards using information and ongoing dialogue to build long lasting mutually beneficial customer relationship. CRM may include a collaborative system of business practices implemented across an enterprise to organize the acquisition aggregation and or analysis of customer profiles.

CRM services may allow sharing customer information across the company in order to create a customer centric organization.

Some embodiments include for example devices systems and methods of automatic Financial Instrument FI management for example client specific FI based managements e.g. integrated FI based Client Relationship Management CRM .

Some embodiments include a system including a memory having stored thereon financial instrument based FI based management instructions and a processor to execute the FI based management instructions resulting in a FI based management application wherein the FI based management application is to receive portfolio data corresponding to a plurality of financial instrument FI portfolios associated with a plurality of clients wherein the FI based management application is to automatically identify one or more portfolios of the plurality of portfolios satisfying at least one criterion wherein for each identified portfolio the FI based management application is to receive client specific management data corresponding to a client associated with the identified portfolio wherein the client specific management data includes at least client specific destination information defining at least one destination and wherein for each identified portfolio the FI based management application is to automatically communicate portfolio related data corresponding to the identified portfolio to the destination defined by the client specific management data.

In some embodiments in identifying the one or more portfolios the FI based management application is to automatically identify one or more portfolios including at least one financial instrument having an event satisfying a predefined event based criterion.

In some embodiments the event based criterion relates to at least one of an expiration of the financial instrument or a barrier of the financial instrument.

In some embodiments the FI based management application is to receive trade parameters defining a trade and to automatically identify the one or more identified portfolios based on a criterion related to the trade parameters.

In some embodiments the FI based management application is to automatically generate a client specific trade article corresponding to the trade based on client specific information corresponding to the client associated with the identified portfolio and to automatically communicate the client specific trade article to the destination defined by the client specific management data.

In some embodiments the FI based management application is to determine one or more recommended trades corresponding to the identified portfolio wherein the portfolio related data corresponding to the identified portfolio includes recommendation information relating to the one or more recommended trades.

In some embodiments the recommended trades include at least one trade corresponding to a financial instrument included in the portfolio.

In some embodiments the recommended trades include at least one trade corresponding to a financial instrument to be added to the portfolio.

In some embodiments the FI based management application is to identify one or more portfolios which do not hedge currency exposure and a corresponding interest rate exposure and wherein the recommended trades include a trade to hedge the unhedged exposure.

In some embodiments the FI based management application is to automatically determine a client specific profile corresponding to at least one client of the plurality of clients based on one or more portfolios of the plurality of portfolios associated with the at least one client wherein the FI based management application is to automatically determine one or more client specific parameters of a trade to be offered to the at least one client based on the client profile.

In some embodiments the FI based management application is to receive real time market data corresponding to the plurality of portfolios and to automatically identify the one or more portfolios based on the real time market data.

In some embodiments the FI based management application is to define the criterion based on one or more user defined parameters.

Some embodiments include a system including a memory having stored thereon financial instrument based management instructions and a processor to execute the FI based management instructions resulting in a FI based management application wherein the FI based management application is to receive trade parameters data defining at least one trade with respect to a financial instrument and client specific data corresponding to a plurality of clients wherein the FI based management application is to automatically define at least one recommended client specific trade be offered to at least one respective client of the plurality of clients based on the trade parameters and the client specific data corresponding to the client and wherein the FI based management application is to automatically provide an output corresponding to the recommended client specific transaction.

In some embodiments the client specific data corresponding to each client includes financial data corresponding to the client.

In some embodiments the financial data includes at least one of portfolio data corresponding to one or more portfolios associated with the client and client profile data defining a financial instrument related profile of the client.

In some embodiments the FI based management application is to receive client specific management data corresponding to the client wherein the client specific management data includes at least client specific destination information defining at least one destination wherein the FI based management application is to automatically communicate recommendation information relating to the recommended trade to the destination defined by the client specific management data.

In some embodiments the FI based management application is to automatically generate a client specific trade article corresponding to the recommended trade based on client specific information corresponding to the client and to automatically communicate the client specific trade article to the destination defined by the client specific management data.

Some embodiments include a computer based method including receiving by a computing device portfolio data corresponding to a plurality of FI portfolios associated with a plurality of clients automatically identifying by the computing device one or more portfolios of the plurality of portfolios satisfying at least one criterion for each identified portfolio receiving by the computing device client specific management data corresponding to a client associated with the identified portfolio wherein the client specific management data includes at least client specific destination information defining at least one destination and for each identified portfolio automatically communicating from portfolio related data corresponding to the identified portfolio from the computing device to the destination defined by the client specific management data.

In some embodiments identifying the one or more portfolios includes automatically identifying one or more portfolios including at least one financial instrument having an event satisfying a predefined event based criterion.

In the following detailed description numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of some embodiments. However it will be understood by persons of ordinary skill in the art that some embodiments may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known methods procedures components units and or circuits have not been described in detail so as not to obscure the discussion.

Some portions of the following detailed description are presented in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on data bits or binary digital signals within a computer memory. These algorithmic descriptions and representations may be the techniques used by those skilled in the data processing arts to convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art.

An algorithm is here and generally considered to be a self consistent sequence of acts or operations leading to a desired result. These include physical manipulations of physical quantities. Usually though not necessarily these quantities take the form of electrical or magnetic signals capable of being stored transferred combined compared and otherwise manipulated. It has proven convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to these signals as bits values elements symbols characters terms numbers or the like. It should be understood however that all of these and similar terms are to be associated with the appropriate physical quantities and are merely convenient labels applied to these quantities.

Discussions herein utilizing terms such as for example processing computing calculating determining establishing analyzing checking or the like may refer to operation s and or process es of a computer a computing platform a computing system or other electronic computing device that manipulate and or transform data represented as physical e.g. electronic quantities within the computer s registers and or memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the computer s registers and or memories or other information storage medium that may store instructions to perform operations and or processes.

The terms plurality and a plurality as used herein includes for example multiple or two or more . For example a plurality of items includes two or more items.

Some embodiments may include one or more wired or wireless links may utilize one or more components of wireless communication may utilize one or more methods or protocols of wireless communication or the like. Some embodiments may utilize wired communication and or wireless communication.

Some embodiments may be used in conjunction with various devices and systems for example a Personal Computer PC a desktop computer a mobile computer a laptop computer a notebook computer a tablet computer a server computer a handheld computer a handheld device a Personal Digital Assistant PDA device a handheld PDA device an on board device an off board device a hybrid device a vehicular device a non vehicular device a mobile or portable device a non mobile or non portable device a wireless communication station a wireless communication device a wireless Access Point AP a wired or wireless router a wired or wireless modem a wired or wireless network a Local Area Network LAN a Wireless LAN WLAN a Metropolitan Area Network MAN a Wireless MAN WMAN a Wide Area Network WAN a Wireless WAN WWAN a Personal Area Network PAN a Wireless PAN WPAN devices and or networks operating in accordance with existing IEEE 802.11 802.11a 802.11b 802.11e 802.11g 802.11h 802.11i 802.11n 802.16 802.16d 802.16e standards and or future versions and or derivatives and or Long Term Evolution LTE of the above standards units and or devices which are part of the above networks one way and or two way radio communication systems cellular radio telephone communication systems a cellular telephone a wireless telephone a Personal Communication Systems PCS device a PDA device which incorporates a wireless communication device a mobile or portable Global Positioning System GPS device a device which incorporates a GPS receiver or transceiver or chip a device which incorporates an RFID element or chip a Multiple Input Multiple Output MIMO transceiver or device a Single Input Multiple Output SIMO transceiver or device a Multiple Input Single Output MISO transceiver or device a device having one or more internal antennas and or external antennas a wired or wireless handheld device e.g. BlackBerry Palm Treo a Wireless Application Protocol WAP device or the like.

Some embodiments may be used in conjunction with one or more types of wireless communication signals and or systems for example Radio Frequency RF Infra Red IR Frequency Division Multiplexing FDM Orthogonal FDM OFDM Time Division Multiplexing TDM Time Division Multiple Access TDMA Extended TDMA E TDMA General Packet Radio Service GPRS extended GPRS Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Wideband CDMA WCDMA CDMA 2000 Multi Carrier Modulation MDM Discrete Multi Tone DMT Bluetooth Global Positioning System GPS Wi Fi Wi Max ZigBee Global System for Mobile communication GSM 2G 2.5G 3G 3.5G or the like. Some embodiments may be used in various other devices systems and or networks.

Some demonstrative embodiments are described herein in the context of automatically performing one or more operations for example management operations for example client specific management operations e.g. Customer Relationship Management CRM operations based on a derivative instrument e.g. a stock option. It should be appreciated however that some embodiments may be applied to other financial instruments FIs and or markets and that embodiments are not limited to stock options. Some embodiments may be applied to other options and or option like financial instruments e.g. options on interest rate futures options on commodities and or options on non asset instruments such as options on the weather and the like with variation as may be necessary to adapt for factors unique to a given financial instrument.

Some demonstrative embodiments are described herein in the context of performing one or more client specific management operations e.g. CRM operations. However it should be appreciated that other embodiments may include performing any other suitable management or non management operations e.g. Data Warehousing Data Analysis Data Mining CRM Analytics Business Intelligence BI operations Enterprise Resource Planning ERP operations and the like.

Some demonstrative embodiments may be implemented by for and or with relation to any suitable financial institute e.g. a bank broker and or organization which may be involved with some aspect of financial instrument trading and or processing.

Reference is now made to which schematically illustrates a block diagram of a system in accordance with some demonstrative embodiments.

In some embodiments system includes one or more user stations or devices for example a PC a laptop computer a PDA device and or a terminal that allow one or more users to structure price analyze and or perform one or more operations or transactions also referred to as trades of one or more financial instruments structures or products financial instruments and to automatically perform one or more Financial Instrument FI based management operations e.g. FI based CRM operations corresponding to the transactions e.g. as described herein. The transaction may include a trading transaction between a client and either an institute implementing system e.g. a bank or any other suitable client third party an exchange an electronic communication network ECN or any other suitable marketplace. In such cases the institution may serve an intermediary or broker.

The term financial instrument may refer to any suitable asset class e.g. Foreign Exchange FX Interest Rate Equity Commodities Credit weather energy real estate mortgages and the like and or may involve more than one asset class e.g. cross asset multi asset and the like. The term financial instrument may refer to both cash instruments e.g. securities loans deposits and bonds as well as derivative instruments e.g. forwards swaps futures exchange options and OTC options which derive their value from the value and characteristics of one or more underlying assets. The term financial instrument may also refer to a combination of one or more financial instruments.

Some demonstrative embodiments are described herein in the context of purchasing buying offering a client to buy and or recommending to a client to buy a financial instrument. However it should be appreciated that other embodiments may include performing any one or more suitable transaction related operations with relation to one or more financial instruments for example selling a financial instrument offering a client to sell a financial instrument recommending to a client to sell a financial instrument and or performing any suitable combination of selling and or buying operations with respect to one or more financial instruments e.g. selling a first financial instrument and buying a second financial instrument as part of any suitable strategy.

The user of device may include for example a business analyst a corporate structuring manager a salesperson a trader a risk manager a front office manager a back office a middle office a system administrator and the like.

In some embodiments devices may be implemented using suitable hardware components and or software components for example processors controllers memory units storage units input units output units communication units operating systems applications or the like.

In some embodiments system may include a FI based management application or service hereinafter FI based management application capable of providing to users one or more FI based management services and or capabilities e.g. CRM services as described in detail below.

In some embodiments system may also include an interface to interface between users and one or more elements of system e.g. FI based management application . Interface may optionally interface between users and one or more FI systems and or services . Services may include for example one or more portfolio management systems one or more risk management systems one or more treasury management systems one or more pricing services one or more analysis services one or more structuring services one or more trading systems one or more exchange connectivity systems one or more market data systems one or more market news services and or one or more other suitable FI related services systems and or platforms. Additionally or alternatively interface may interface between users and any suitable CRM modules or systems hereinafter CRM modules .

In some embodiments CRM modules may provide the users of system with any suitable CRM services and or capabilities e.g. including but not limited to one or more of the following CRM capabilities and or services 

In some embodiments FI based management application may be capable of communicating directly or indirectly e.g. via interface and or any other interface with one or more suitable modules of system for example one or more of FI systems CRM modules or systems an archive an E mail service an HTTP service an FTP service an application and or any suitable module capable of providing e.g. automatically input to FI based management application and or receiving output generated by FI based management application e.g. as described herein.

In some embodiments FI based management application may be implemented as part of FI systems services as part of CRM modules and or as part of any other suitable system or module e.g. as part of any suitable server or as a dedicated server.

In some embodiments FI based management application may include a local or remote application executed by any suitable computing system . For example computing system may include a suitable memory having stored thereon FI based management application instructions and a suitable processor to execute instructions resulting in FI based management application . In some embodiments computing system may include a server to provide the functionality of FI based management application to users . In other embodiments computing system may be part of user station . For example instructions may be downloaded and or received by users from another computing system such that FI based management application may be executed locally by users . For example instructions may be received and stored e.g. temporarily in a memory or any suitable short term memory or buffer of user device e.g. prior to being executed by a processor of user device . In other embodiments computing system may include any other suitable computing arrangement and or scheme.

In some embodiments computing system may also execute one or more of FI systems services and or CRM modules . In other embodiments FI based management application may be implemented separately from one or more of FI systems services and or CRM modules .

In some embodiments interface may be implemented as part of FI based management application FI systems services CRM modules and or as part of any other suitable system or module e.g. as part of any suitable server.

In some embodiments interface may be associated with and or included as part of devices . In one example interface may be implemented for example as middleware as part of any suitable application and or as part of a server. Interface may be implemented using any suitable hardware components and or software components for example processors controllers memory units storage units input units output units communication units operating systems applications. In some embodiments interface may include or may be part of a Web based structuring pricing application a web site a web page a stand alone application a plug in an ActiveX control a rich content component e.g. a Flash or Shockwave component or the like.

In some embodiments interface may also interface between users and one or more of FI systems and or services management application a database and or CRM modules e.g. as described below.

In some embodiments interface may be configured to allow users to enter commands to define a financial instrument to define and or structure a trade corresponding to the financial instrument to receive a pricing of the trade to analyze the trade to transact the trade to analyze and generate reports about a portfolio of financial instruments held by the user or a client to analyze any market information such as prices trends risk measures and the like to monitor one or more trades and or portfolios and or to otherwise control and or analyze the user s structuring pricing operations e.g. as described below. In some embodiments users may indirectly interact with one or more of FI systems and or services for example via communication with CRM modules to enter commands to define a financial instrument to define and or structure a trade corresponding to the financial instrument to receive a pricing of the trade to analyze the trade to transact the trade to monitor a trade or a portfolio and or to otherwise control and or analyze the user s structuring pricing operations e.g. as described below.

In some embodiments interface may include one or more of FI systems services and or one or more other FI services .

In some embodiments interface may interface FI systems FI management application database and or CRM modules with one or more other modules and or devices for example a gateway and or an application programming interface API for example to transfer information from FI based management application and or CRM modules to one or more other e.g. internal or external parties users applications and or systems e.g. one or more clients using any suitable communication method e.g. E mail Fax SMS Twitter a website an the like.

In some embodiments FI based management application may be capable of automatically performing one or more FI based management operations for example client specific operations with relation to one or more trades based on client specific information corresponding to one or more clients e.g. as described in detail below.

In some embodiments FI based management application may be capable of automatically providing the users of system with FI based management and or CRM capabilities and or services e.g. as described herein. For example FI based management application may automatically integrate between FI systems and one or more CRM modules to support workflow and or and productivity of sales trade and or management people within a financial institute e.g. a bank or broker as described herein.

In a non limiting example the services provided by FI management application may increase revenue client loyalty sales morale and or overall profitability of the financial institute. Additionally or alternatively the services provided by FI management application may increase management effectiveness and or reduce operating costs and or various types of risks e.g. operational market counterparty and or compliance risks.

In one example application may be implemented e.g. by the financial institute to provide users e.g. a sales person with FI based management and or CRM capabilities e.g. as described herein allowing the sales person for example to easily interact with a client towards addressing the client s needs and or the sales person s institution s goals with respect to one or more financial instruments.

In one implementation application may be used by the sales person to follow a financial product e.g. a trade and or to interact with at least one client for example after offering providing and or selling the financial product to the client based for example on a current and or past portfolio of one or more financial instruments associated with the client a profile associated with the client client specific management information associated with the client expected changes in the portfolio and or market exposures the client s past executed transactions overall financial market trends and or data corresponding to the financial product e.g. as described in detail below.

Additionally or alternatively application may be used by users e.g. the sales person prior to offering providing and or selling the financial product to the client based for example on a current and or past portfolio of one or more financial instruments associated with the client a profile associated with the client clients specific management information associated with the client expected changes in the portfolio and or market exposures the client s past executed transactions overall financial market trends and or data corresponding to the financial product e.g. as described in detail below.

Additionally or alternatively application may perform one or more operations to automatically alert users a client and or a financial institute that one or more predefined rules are satisfied with relation to a financial product held by the client or financial institute e.g. rules relating to an event corresponding to the financial product as described in detail below. For example application may automatically notify and or alerts user e.g. a sales person of one or more events e.g. upcoming expirations approaching or crosses knock in or knock out prices and the like corresponding to portfolios of clients managed by the salesperson e.g. as described below.

In some embodiments interface may be adapted to allow user to interact with CRM modules FI based CRM and or FI services for example to perform one or more operations for example FI based management operations e.g. CRM related operations. In one example interface includes one or more FI based management interface tools for example one or more query interface tools trigger management interface tools and or analysis interface tools and or any other suitable interface tools as described herein to allow the user to interface application for performing one or more FI based management operations for example to define one or more trades to define one or more triggers queries and or other operations corresponding to portfolios and or to otherwise control define and or analyze the FI based CRM operations.

In some embodiments application may be capable of providing the users of system e.g. sales department employees with the capabilities of following the relationship with a client e.g. through one or more stages of a financial instrument selling process for example from first interest identification through order placement and invoice setting and up to monitoring the portfolios of the clients and offering to the clients one or more recommended additional or alternative financial instrument trades.

In some embodiments application may interact with CRM modules for example to receive CRM data from CRM modules to run a query to run an analysis to cause CRM modules to perform one or more operations to generate and or update CRM data and or suitable CRM records maintained by CRM modules to generate one or more CRM alerts or triggers for CRM modules and or to use one or more of the capabilities of CRM modules e.g. as described herein.

In some embodiments FI based management application may be implemented as part of CRM modules e.g. as an application and or service provided by CRM modules or as part of FI module . In other embodiments FI based management application may be implemented independently of CRM modules e.g. as a high level module and or a stand alone service or application.

In some embodiments application may automatically generate modify and or update one or more CRM events alerts or triggers in a suitable format handled by CRM modules e.g. to activate a suitable CRM event alert or trigger based on information received from FI systems and or users e.g. as described in detail below.

In some embodiments system may also include database e.g. associated with interface FI based CRM service CRM modules and or FI systems to maintain for example any suitable client data corresponding to one or more clients of the financial institute and or any suitable portfolio data corresponding to one or more portfolios belonging to the clients. For example for each portfolio the portfolio data may include for example any suitable details of one or more current financial instruments currently included in the portfolio. For example the details corresponding to a financial instrument may include for example an instrument type and any suitable e.g. full contractual definitions of the financial instrument may include for example one or more underlying assets amount strike price expiration date knock in price knock out price and the like. Client data may include one or more client profiles corresponding to one or more clients. Client profile may include for example information that characterizes the trading activity of an institution or an individual in the institution. Client profile may include any suitable client specific profile information corresponding to a client e.g. based on the portfolio of the client historical financial instruments previously included in the portfolio previous financial products offered to the client previous financial products sold to the client a risk limit of the client and the like. In one example client profile may include one or more of the following information and or parameters 

Client profile corresponding to a client may be automatically generated modified and or updated for example by application e.g. based on information received from FI systems CRM modules user interface and or database .

In some embodiments application may include an analysis module capable of performing Client Behavior Analysis to perform for example predictive analysis based for example on the client s record of relevant activities and events the client s record recorded e.g. as part of profile in database FI services CRM modules application and or received from other services and or systems e.g. via gateway and or API . The client s record may include for example information related to transactions previously offered to the client transactions performed or declined by the client various statistics and aggregations related to the client s current and past trading activity such as for example the client s investment or hedging goals underlying asset class or instrument types various post trade expected events related to the client s portfolio such as for example option expiries client data profile data portfolio data and or any other suitable information related to the client and or the activity of the client.

In some embodiments analysis module may be capable of automatically generating predictive data corresponding to the client for example any suitable pattern data representing a behavioral pattern of the client with respect to FI transactions e.g. a percent of first offers accepted by the client a percent of offers declined by the client and the like. Additionally or alternatively analysis module may be capable of automatically generating predictive data corresponding to a selected group of clients for example any suitable pattern data representing a behavioral pattern of the group of clients with respect to one or more FI trades e.g. a group of clients having in their portfolios a one or more specific FIs. Application may be capable of storing in database prediction data including the prediction data generated by analysis module .

In some embodiments tools may include for example an analysis interface tool to allow users to define parameters and or rules to be applied by analysis module for generating prediction data . For example analysis tool may allow defining the type amount and or origin of data to be used by analysis module the analysis to be performed the type and or format of prediction data to be generated and the like.

In some embodiments application may include a trigger module capable of generating one or more triggers based on portfolio data and or FI related information received from FI services . In one example the triggers may include Sales Person Relevant Triggers SRTs which may be deduced by application based on the FI information received from systems e.g. as described below.

In some embodiments the triggers generated by trigger module may include information items which may be provided to the user or the client e.g. a sales person via for example interface and may indicate alert notify and or imply that the user e.g. the sales person should take suitable action e.g. with relation to one or more transactions portfolios and or clients in order to achieve one or more predefined goals including e.g. the sales person s goals the institution s goals and or the client s goals.

In some embodiments trigger module may provide the triggers directly to CRM modules . For example application may generate triggers in a format suitable for CRM modules e.g. in the format of a CRM alert or CRM trigger to activate a suitable CRM event of modules .

In some embodiments trigger module may define the triggers with relation to any one or more suitable parameters corresponding to one or more financial instruments the trigger parameters . For example trigger module may define the triggers with relation to one or more parameters e.g. as defined by user via interface corresponding to one or more client portfolios managed by the sales person e.g. based on client data profiles and or portfolio data as described below.

In some embodiments application may be capable of automatically generating and sending to a user or a client a communication e.g. via gateway and or API and or causing CRM modules to send the communication including any suitable portfolio related information CRM and or FI related information based on the triggers and or prediction data as described herein. In some embodiments application may also include one or more FI services for example one or more CRM related FI services and or one or more client customizable FI services. In one example FI services and or may include a customized trade article service e.g. as described by U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 357 463 filed Jan. 22 2009 entitled Device system and method of generating a customized trade article the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference. For example based on triggers application may automatically generate a customized trade idea and send to the user and or client or cause CRM modules to send to the user and or client a customized trade article e.g. a trade idea e.g. as part of an E mail communication which may be addressed to an E mail associated with the client as may be retrieved from client data and or CRM modules .

In one example trigger may include a client specific trigger e.g. corresponding to a specific client e.g. based on client data . In another example trigger may include a client group trigger e.g. corresponding to a group of clients e.g. based on client data . For example trigger may correspond to a financial instrument e.g. a specific type of option held by a group of the clients. In a further example trigger may include a portfolio specific trigger e.g. corresponding to a specific portfolio e.g. based on portfolio data . In yet a further example trigger may include a portfolio group trigger e.g. corresponding to a group of portfolios of one or more clients e.g. based on client data and or portfolio data .

In some non limiting example triggers may be based on one or more of the following trigger parameters which may be defined e.g. individually and or jointly for one or more clients transaction and or portfolios managed by the sales person 

Triggers may include one or more group triggers e.g. triggers commonly defined for a group of one or more clients transactions and or portfolios and or one or more individual triggers e.g. triggers individually defined for a specific client transaction portfolio and or a specific subset of a client s portfolio.

Application may operate in tandem with CRM modules for example to provide the user of devices e.g. the sales person with triggers in synchronization with and or as part of CRM services provided by CRM modules . For example if trigger requires the sales person to call the client to discuss a current trade in the portfolio of the client and or if trigger requires the sales person to call the client to discuss a possible new trade detected by application then application may cause CRM modules to define a suitable CRM alert to alert the sales person to make the call to the client at a suitable time including any required information explanations and or references e.g. which may be derived by application from services .

Tools may include a trigger definition update tool to allow one or more predefined users of system to interact with trigger module e.g. define and or update the parameters of triggers . In on example trigger definition update tool may allow users e.g. a sales person to define and or update triggers corresponding to clients transactions and or portfolios managed by the sales person. In another example trigger definition update tool may allow a client to define and or update triggers corresponding to one or more portfolios of the client. In one example access to triggers may be selectively restricted to users of system e.g. the sales person and or the client e.g. using a login a password and the like.

In some embodiments tools may include a query interface tool to interface a query module at application . The user may use query tool to initiate any suitable queries with relation to data from systems e.g. to produce any required FI based analysis and or management information. For example the sales person may use tool to perform an operation e.g. similar to the operation of triggers in an ad hoc and or user controlled fashion e.g. as described below with reference to . In some non limiting examples query may result in 

In some embodiments FI based management application may also include a policy manager to manage compliance and or risk policies and or regulations based on FI information received from FI services and or information received from CRM modules . In one example the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive MiFID may define that some transactions may be offered to only some types of clients. For example some transactions may be offered to professional clients and may not be offered to retail clients. In one example policy manager may enforce compliance with regulations e.g. the MiFID to selectively manage offering of a transaction by user e.g. a salesperson to a client for example by determining a status of the client using information from CRM modules database and or FI services . In another example policy manager enforce compliance with predefined risk policies to selectively manage offering of a transaction by user e.g. a salesperson to a client for example by determining whether or not the client satisfies the predefined risk policies based on information from CRM modules database and or FI services .

In some embodiments application may be capable of automatically generating relevant FI based information knowledge and or recommendations corresponding to a client s transactions portfolios and the like and inserting the FI based information knowledge and or recommendations as CRM comments in a format suitable for CRM modules and or database e.g. as described herein.

In some embodiments application may be capable of automatically generating e.g. based on data received from FI systems and or CRM modules a performance analysis report per client including direct and or indirect performance profit and or risk per client. Application may provide the report in a suitable format for CRM modules and or may store the report in database .

In some embodiments application may automatically generate e.g. based on data received from FI systems and or CRM modules a salesperson based performance analysis report e.g. including direct and or indirect performance profit and or risk per client. Application may provide the salesperson based report in a suitable format for CRM modules and or may store the salesperson based report in database . The salesperson based report may be used for example for determining per sales person contribution and or compensation commissions .

In one implementation application may be used by user e.g. the sales person to follow a financial product e.g. a transaction and or to interact with at least one client for example after offering providing and or selling the financial product to the client based for example on a profile of the client and or data corresponding to the financial product. In one example if the sales person has sold an option to a client then the sales person may use trigger tool to define a trigger corresponding to one or more parameters of the option. For example if the option includes a knockout option then the sales person may define trigger to alert the sales person when the price of the option is close to or crosses the knock out. In another example if the sales person has sold a hedge transaction to a client then the sales person may use trigger tool to define a trigger corresponding to one or more parameters of the hedge. For example the sales person may define trigger to alert the sales person upon a predefined change in the underlying exposure and or changes in the coverage of the hedge.

In another implementation application may be used by user e.g. the sales person and or a trader prior to offering providing and or selling the financial product to the client based for example on a profile of the client and or data corresponding to the financial product.

In one example application may monitor services and based on portfolio data corresponding to the client profile corresponding to the client prediction data and or any other suitable data application may generate trigger alerting the sales person to offer a recommend financial product customized to the client. In one example profile corresponding to a client may include a trade hit ratio of the client e.g. a ratio between a number of trades offered to the client and a number of trades which were actually executed by the client. A low hit ratio may imply for example that the offers provided to the client were not suitable for the client and or were too expensive for the client e.g. compared to other offers. Accordingly the sales person may use query tool to query the hit ratio of the client for example in order to customize a price of a trade e.g. to reduce the price of the trade if the hit ratio is low prior to offering the trade to the client.

In another example a trader may provide to application trade parameters defining a trade application may automatically identify one or more potential clients to be offered the trade and based on client specific information corresponding to the identified clients application may automatically communicate details regarding the recommended trade to one or more sales persons in charge of the identified clients.

In another example policy manager may force user e.g. the salesperson to comply with regulations and or risk management policies e.g. prior to offering a transaction to a client by allowing user to offer the transaction for example only if it is determined e.g. based on information from FI services database and or CRM modules that the client complies with regulations risk management and or any other entitlement policies e.g. counterparty credit limit as described above.

In another implementation application may perform one or more operations to automatically alert the client salesperson trader and or the financial institute e.g. based on triggers . For example application may send a message to the client and or financial institute alerting that one or more predefined rules are satisfied with relation to a financial product e.g. when an option expires or move in or out of the money. The message may include a cellular message e.g. a Short Message Service SMS message a Multimedia Message Service MMS message and the like an electronic mail E mail message e.g. in accordance with the Simple Mail Transfer Protocol SMTP the Hyper Text Transfer Protocol HTTP and the like an Instant Message IM an ICQ message an America Online Instant Messenger AIM message a Windows Live Messenger WLM message a QQ message a Skype message an Extensible Messaging and Presence Protocol XMPP message a Mobile Instant Messaging MIM message an Enterprise Instant Messaging EIM message an IVR message and the like and or an other suitable message type or format.

In some embodiments application may allow the user to view and or edit e.g. using tools one or more client s portfolios and or data stored by database and or to access one or more of FI systems e.g. directly within user interface .

In some embodiments application may set up a bi directional API with CRM modules including a first direction from application to CRM modules to allow for example providing triggers and or transferring portfolio data from application to interface e.g. using the CRM services provided by CRM modules and a second direction from modules to application to allow for example transferring queries and or editing parameters of triggers from interface to application e.g. using the CRM services of modules .

In some embodiments application may use query to perform suitable sales data and or reporting operations thereby to allow an individual sales person and or sales management to directly access information residing in one or more of FI systems CRM modules and or database . For example application may allow the individual sales person and or sales management to review the amount the premiums generated the brokerage paid or the sales margin commission for a specific portfolio client or any subset of clients.

In some embodiments application may use query to generate various queries and or reports based on the information from systems possibly in conjunction with CRM related data originated by CRM modules . For example management can use query to receive a report of the average number of trades per each sales person the number of phone calls made per trade the average bank profitability per sales person the overall margin generated based on a specific campaign and the like. Management may use query for example to track various trends and then fit offering and strategy to those trends.

In some embodiments application may provide the financial institution with access to lists of existing potential clients counterparties e.g. corporate treasurers asset managers or hedge funds.

In some embodiments tools may include any suitable communication and or reporting tools to allow the user e.g. the sales person to generate and or send e.g. to the client any suitable report e.g. mark to market which may be directly generated at application and or based on the FI information received by application from services .

In some embodiments application and or modules may be capable of performing any suitable E mail and or chat communications with interface e.g. using any suitable security standards and or encryption.

In some embodiments tools and or user interface may also include any suitable customized trade article tools e.g. as part of FI services and or interface allowing the sales person to send the client any suitable customized and or formatted trade idea e.g. using FI based management application and or modules .

In some embodiments application may be capable of distributing news research market data trade offers and or campaigns e.g. a special structured product to a defined subset of clients.

Reference is also made to which schematically illustrates a method of automatic FI based management in accordance with some embodiments. In some embodiments one or more of the operations of may be performed by one or more elements of system e.g. FI based management application .

As indicated at block the method may include receiving portfolio data corresponding to a plurality of FI portfolios associated with a plurality of clients. For example FI based management application may receive portfolio data corresponding to the plurality of clients.

As indicated at block the method may include automatically identifying one or more portfolios of the plurality of portfolios satisfying at least one criterion. For example FI based management application may automatically identify one or more portfolios of the plurality of portfolios satisfying the at least one criterion.

In one example as indicated at block the method may include receiving parameters defining the criterion. For example FI based management application may define the criterion based on one or more user defined parameters e.g. received via interface . The criterion may be defined for example by a salesperson a trader a management person and the like.

As indicated at block in some embodiments the criterion may include or may be based on an event based trigger e.g. trigger . For example in identifying the one or more portfolios FI based management application may automatically identify one or more of portfolios including at least one financial instrument having an event satisfying a predefined event based criterion as indicated at block .

In one embodiment the event based criterion relates to at least one of an expiration of the financial instrument or a barrier of the financial instrument. In one example trigger may refer to financial instruments having an expiration date within less than a predefined time period e.g. within a day a week and the like. In another example trigger may refer to financial instruments having a barrier which is within a predefined range from a current market spot price of an underlying asset.

The event based criterion may be defined for example by the user of device e.g. via trigger interface tool . For example the user of device may define trigger and FI based management application may automatically identify one or more portfolios satisfying trigger e.g. as described below with reference to .

As indicated at block in some embodiments the criterion may relate to trade parameters defining a trade. For example FI based management application may receive the parameters defining the trade e.g. via interface and in identifying the one or more portfolios FI based management application may automatically identify one or more portfolios for recommending the trade based on the trade parameters as indicated at block .

In one embodiment the user of device may provide FI based management application with trade parameters defining a trade e.g. via interface and FI based management application may automatically identify one or more portfolios to which the trade is to be offered based on the criterion related to the trade parameters e.g. as described below with reference o .

Although some demonstrative embodiments are described herein with relation to a user defined criterion defined by user e.g. a salesperson trader manager and the like in other embodiments the criterion may be defined e.g. automatically by any other suitable element of system . For example FI based management may automatically define the criterion e.g. based on information received from user CRM modules and or FI systems . In another example FI based management application may generate the criteria using predictive data corresponding to a selected group of clients for example any suitable pattern data representing a behavioral pattern of the group of clients with respect to one or more FI trades for example a group of clients having in their portfolios one or more specific FIs e.g. a EUR USD option.

As indicated at block the method may include receiving client specific management data corresponding to a client associated with the identified portfolio. For example FI based management application may receive e.g. from CRM modules suitable client specific management data .

In some embodiments client specific management data may include at least client specific recipient and or destination information destination information defining at least one destination to which information regarding the client or the portfolio of the client is to be communicated for example a sales person in charge of selling trades to the client a trader in charge of performing and or monitoring the trades a manger the client a suitable system or service to process the information regarding the client or the portfolio of the client a suitable database to store the information regarding the client or the portfolio of the client for later use and or any other suitable person or entity. For example destination information corresponding to a client may include any suitable information defining one or more ways of communicating with the destination e.g. an E mail address phone number instant messaging nickname a postal address and the like and or any suitable information defining the contents of the communication e.g. a format of the communication predefined data to be included in the communication and the like. Client specific management data may also include any other suitable information corresponding to the client.

As indicated at block the method may include e.g. for each identified portfolio automatically communicating portfolio related data corresponding to the identified portfolio to the destination defined by the client specific management data. For example the FI based management application may automatically communicate to the destination defined by destination information portfolio related data corresponding to the identified portfolio.

In some embodiments for example if the criterion relates to an event then the portfolio data may include at least information of the event in the identified portfolio.

In some embodiments trigger may refer to one or more events e.g. as described above and FI based management application may automatically identify one or more portfolios including one or more financial instruments satisfying the event defined by trigger and automatically communicate to one or more destinations defined by destination information of the clients associated with the identified portfolios an alert regarding the events. According to these embodiments FI based management application may automatically provide for example alerts to a sales person with respect to portfolios of clients managed by the salesperson. For example trigger may refer to financial instruments having an expiration date within less than one week. Based on trigger FI based management application may automatically monitor portfolio data for example on a continuous basis e.g. daily to identify one or more portfolios having financial instruments expiring within a week. Upon identifying a portfolio FI based management application may receive client specific management date corresponding to the client associated with the identified portfolio. Destination information of the received client specific management date may include communication details of a sales person in charge of the client. Based on destination information FI based management application may automatically communicate a suitable alert to the sales person to alert the salesperson of the upcoming event in the identified portfolio. In one embodiment FI based management application may automatically provide e.g. on a daily basis or any other basis a sales person with a suitable report or list of portfolios having the upcoming event. For example at the beginning of every day week or month FI based management application may automatically monitor portfolio data and FI systems e.g. based on triggers and automatically provide a salesperson with a list of all events related to portfolios of clients managed by the salesperson.

As indicated at block in some embodiments the method may include automatically generating a client specific trade article corresponding to the defined trade based on client specific information corresponding to the client associated with the identified portfolio for example if the criterion relates to a trade as described above. For example FI based management application may automatically generate a client specific trade article based on client data e.g. using FI service and may communicate the client specific trade article to the destination defined by the client specific management data e.g. as described below with reference to .

As indicated at block in some embodiments the method may include automatically determining one or more recommended trades corresponding to a portfolio. For example FI based management application may automatically determine one or more recommended trades to be offered to a client associated with a portfolio e.g. based on client data client profile portfolio data prediction data and or any other suitable data e.g. received from FI systems and or CRM modules . FI based management application may automatically communicate e.g. in accordance with the client specific management information corresponding to the client recommendation information relating to the one or more recommended trades. The recommendation information may include for example one or more parameters defining the recommended trades a trade article corresponding to the recommended trades an analysis of the recommended trades and the like.

In some embodiments FI based management application may be capable of automatically generating a trade recommendation to replace an existing trade the replaced trade in a client s portfolio and or automatically generating a trade recommendation to hedge and or leverage the client s portfolio e.g. as described below.

In some embodiments application may determine event related triggers for existing trades in a portfolio e.g. as described herein. For example application may identify trades which are close to maturity options deep in the money options close to knock out and the like.

In some embodiments application may automatically generate a trade recommendation corresponding to an identified trade. For example the recommendation may include closing the identified trade e.g. if the trade included buying an option then closing the trade may include selling the option or if the trade included selling an option then closing the trade may include buying the option and replacing the closed trade with another trade the replacement trade .

In one embodiment the recommended replacement trade may include a trading strategy similar to the replaced trade. For example based on a spot price at inception denoted S of an underlying asset of the replaced trade and a current spot price denoted S of the underlying asset application may automatically select an option having a strike K A K S S and a trigger T B T S S wherein K denotes the strike of the replaced trade T denotes the trigger of the replaced trade an wherein the values of A and B may be set to the value of 1 or may depend of the remaining time to maturity.

In another embodiment the recommended replacement trade may include a trading strategy different from the trading strategy of the replaced trade e.g. to optimize the client s risk versus cost. In one example application may automatically select the strategy of the replacement trade from a predefined set of strategies based on any suitable criteria.

In one example application may automatically identify that the client portfolio includes a deep in the money option which may be replaced with another option e.g. while allowing the client to receive money for selling the identified option. For example the identified deep in the money option may include a Vanilla Call option with a strike price K and a maturity T and the current spot may be S. application may select a recommended trade to replace the identified option e.g. from a plurality of predefined strategies e.g. including at least the strategies described below.

A first alternative may include buying call options with strike K S 1.02 T years 12 and selling a put option. Application may automatically determine the strike of the put such that the total price is zero. In this case the client will receive money for selling the original in the money call option.

A second alternative may include buying call options with strike K S 1.02 T years 12 and a knock out trigger at T 0.97 S and selling a put option so that the price of the strategy is zero. Application may automatically determine the strike of the put such that the total price is zero. In this case the client will receive money for selling the original in the money call option.

A third alternative may include buying vanilla call options with strike K S 1.02 T years 12 and selling a knock in put option with strike K S 1.02 T years 12 and a trigger T such that the price of the strategy is zero. Application may automatically determine the knock in trigger of the put option such that the total price is zero. In this case the client will receive money for selling the original in the money call option.

In some embodiments application may select between the predefined alternatives e.g. based on the client profile corresponding to the client and or any other suitable criteria.

In one example if the client profile is such that the client only has a mandate to trade forward or structure forwards then application may recommend alternative as it is a structured forward. If the trigger is touched it becomes a simple forward deal and if the trigger is not touched then the client has no liability.

In another example application may select the recommended trade based on the maximum loss of the trade in a variety of scenarios. For example the recommended trade may include the trade having the lowest maximum loss.

In some embodiments application may automatically generate a trade recommendation in response to a request from user . For example user may use interface to define expected cash flows and or other payments to be considered when defining a strategy of the recommendation. Application may use the profile corresponding to the client.

In one example application may analyze the change in the value of the portfolio corresponding to the client versus changes in the value of the assets included in the portfolio e.g. spot price of currencies and commodities parallel shift of the yield curve in interest rates and the like. For each asset application may select e.g. based on the client profile from one or more predefined strategies e.g. similar to and or different from the strategies described above. For example a strategy may include N vanilla options that create similar changes in the value of the portfolio versus spot and have a maturity that is the average of all assets and exposure in the portfolio of that asset.

In another example for each asset application may divide the portfolio to expiration buckets e.g. quarterly and analyze each bucket separately. For example application may examine all cash flows in a specific quarter and summarize them to one effective cash flow and then determine a strategy to hedge the summarized cash flow only. This example may include coupons from debt to pay receive or any commodity energy to be consumed sold. Application may offer a strategy that is composed of the selected strategies for all the buckets and the assets.

In another example application may analyze parameters such as for example delta gamma vega dvega dvol ddelta dvol of the portfolio either weighted by maturity or kept in separate buckets as described above and design strategies that balance the parameters as close as possible to zero for the whole portfolio. In one example application may use a portfolio of vanilla options and solve for the strikes and volume per strike.

As indicated at block in some embodiments the method may include automatically determining one or more client specific parameters of the recommended trades to be offered to a client based on a client profile of the client. For example as indicated at block the method may include determining the client profile.

In some embodiments FI based management application may automatically determine client specific profile corresponding to at least one client of the plurality of clients based on portfolio data of one or more portfolios associated with client e.g. as described below. FI based management application may automatically determine one or more client specific parameters of the trade to be offered to the at least one client based on the client profile.

In some embodiments the client specific parameters include a sales margin. The Sales margin mark up may define an addition or reduction that should be applied to a buy or a sell price proposed to a client for a specific trade compared to a reference price . The reference price may include a bank s best offered price and can be defined for example as the bank s internal transfer price between the trading and sales desk. A salesperson may want to maximize the aggregate margins charged on executed deals for a pre defined period e.g. three months for example by optimizing the charged sales margin per deal. The salesperson may provide application with trade related parameters defining a trade e.g. including the reference price for the trade. Application may automatically determine a client specific minimal margin for the trade based for example on one or more of the following client specific parameters which may be included for example as part of client profile portfolio data and or client data 

In some embodiments application may determine one or more of the client specific parameters listed above and based on the monitored parameters application may automatically adjust the sales margin to be offered to the client e.g. in real time.

In some embodiments FI based management application may automatically combine CRM related data e.g. from CRM modules and or database with FI data e.g. from FI services and or database for example to infer trends. For example FI based management application may automatically identify hedging activities across various subsets of clients and or portfolios and discover patterns that relate to parameters such as for example underlying exposure current holdings risk appetite client size and the like. FI based management application may then provide customized sales and or marketing recommendations as to the optimal hedging investment offers to make to the clients based on those parameters. Cross selling and or up selling may require for the company and its sales people to understand the relationship between different offerings and know which purchase may lead to another one.

In some embodiments the recommended trades may include at least one trade corresponding to a financial instrument already included in the identified portfolio. For example if the identified portfolio includes an option on an underlying asset which is close to expiration then the recommended trades may include a new option on the same underlying asset and having a longer expiration period.

In some embodiments the recommended trades may include at least one trade corresponding to a financial instrument to be added to the portfolio. In one example FI based management application may automatically identify one or more portfolios which do not hedge currency exposure and a corresponding interest rate exposure. FI based management application may automatically determine the recommended trades to include a trade to hedge the unhedged exposure.

In some embodiments determining the recommended trade may include hedging an exposure as indicated at block .

In one example the salesperson may use FI based management application to effectively sell interest rates derivatives IRD structures for hedging. According to this example the sales person may use interface to query application for all clients who have a live foreign exchange FX hedge against a foreign currency e.g. Euro EUR but do not have a hedge against a related EUR interest rate IR risk. Application may automatically provide the salesperson with an IRD strategy for hedging the EUR interest rates exposure and or provide the salesperson with a customized trade idea. For example application may automatically identify one or more portfolios which have not hedged none one two of their currency exposure and an interest rates exposure related to the currency exposure. Application may automatically issue e.g. for all portfolios having only hedged one of the exposure a client specific trade idea for the hedging of the unhedged exposure.

In another example the sales person may use application to query for all clients who currently have a live vanilla option. Application may automatically scan portfolio data e.g. testing both the actual trade as well as meta data e.g. profile data related to the purchase decision e.g. what exposure they are hedging against . Application may automatically determine a possible alternative exotic structure that would for example both provide a more effective solution for the client and at the same time grant the sales person and or the bank with a higher profit margin.

As indicated at block the method may include receiving real time market data corresponding to the plurality of portfolios. For example FI based management application may receive e.g. from FI systems real time market data corresponding to the plurality of portfolios and automatically identify the one or more portfolios based on the real time market data. In one example the real time data may include data relating to an underlying asset e.g. a spot price of an underlying asset and FI based management application may identify the portfolios based on the data relating to an underlying asset e.g. by identifying one or more portfolios including one or more derivative instruments corresponding to the underlying asset having a knock out or knock in price within a predefined range from the spot price e.g. based on trigger .

Reference is also made to which schematically illustrates a method of generating a FI based trigger e.g. a FI based CRM trigger in accordance with some demonstrative embodiments. In some non limiting embodiments one or more operations of the method of may be performed by one or more elements of system e.g. FI based management application to provide a user e.g. users API and or GW with at least one FI based trigger e.g. trigger based on an analysis of portfolio data with relation to FI information received from one or more FI systems e.g. systems CRM information received from CRM modules client data client profile and or prediction data .

As indicated at block the method may include receiving one or more event trigger parameters. For example the user may use tool and or user interface to define one or more trigger parameters which may be provided to application . For example the event parameters may include a time distance from expiration date of a derivative instrument a price distance between a knock in or knock out parameter of a derivative instrument and a spot price of an underlying asset a hedging risk a financial instrument type a type of underlying asst and the like.

As indicated at block the method may include defining a trigger based on the event parameters. For example application may define trigger based on the received event parameters.

As indicated at block the method may also include identifying one or more portfolios including one or more financial instruments satisfying the defined trigger. As indicated at block the method may include monitoring one or more of FI systems and or CRM modules to detect FI and o CRM information corresponding to the defined trigger. For example application may monitor systems to detect information corresponding to trigger e.g. based on the trigger parameters client data profile data prediction data and or portfolio data as described above. In one example FI based management application may monitor FI systems to determine spot prices of underlying assets corresponding to the portfolios of portfolio data and identify one or more of the portfolios including one or more financial instruments satisfying trigger e.g. including derivative instruments having a knock in or knock out price within the price distance as defined by trigger from the monitored spot price.

As indicated at block the method may include providing portfolio related information corresponding to the identified portfolio. For example FI based management application may receive client specific information corresponding to a client associated with an identified portfolio and to communicate to a destination defined by the client specific information portfolio related information corresponding to the identified portfolio.

As indicated at block the method may also include generating a CRM based trigger corresponding to the one or more identified portfolios satisfying the parameters of the defined trigger. For example application may activate a CRM trigger of CRM modules e.g. as described herein.

In one embodiment FI based management application may automatically provide alerts to at least one sales person with respect to portfolios of clients managed by the salesperson. For example an event based trigger may be defined with reference to one or more desired events relating to one or more financial instruments for example financial derivatives having an expiration date within less than one week. Based on event based trigger FI based management application may automatically monitor portfolio data for example on a continuous basis e.g. daily to identify one or more portfolios having financial instruments expiring within a week. Upon identifying such a portfolio FI based management application may receive client specific management date corresponding to the client associated with the identified portfolio. Based on destination information corresponding to the client associated with the identified portfolio FI based management application may automatically communicate a suitable alert to the salesperson to alert the salesperson of the upcoming event in the identified portfolio. In one embodiment FI based management application may automatically provide the salesperson with a suitable report or list of portfolios having the upcoming event e.g. on a daily basis or any other basis.

In another example application may automatically provide alerts to at least one sales person with respect to a client managed by the salesperson regarding for example a financial instrument not currently included in the portfolio of the client or even if the client currently has no portfolio. For example an event based trigger may be defined in association with a client with reference to a financial instrument which is or is not included in the current portfolio of the client for example to alert the salesperson and or client of a client defined event in the financial instrument e.g. that the EUR USD exchange rate has crossed the value of 1.4.

In another example the event based trigger may be defined with reference to one or more other desired events e.g. derivative instruments having a knock in or knock out price within a predefined distance from a current spot price. Based on event based trigger FI based management application may automatically monitor portfolio data and FI systems for example on a continuous basis e.g. daily to identify one or more portfolios having derivative instruments with a knock in or knock out price within the distance as defined by the trigger from the current spot price. Upon identifying such a portfolio FI based management application may receive client specific management date corresponding to the client associated with the identified portfolio. Based on destination information corresponding to the client associated with the identified portfolio FI based management application may automatically communicate a suitable alert to the salesperson to alert the salesperson of the upcoming event in the identified portfolio. In one embodiment FI based management application may automatically provide the sales person with a suitable report or list of portfolios based on the defined event e.g. on a daily basis or any other basis.

Reference is also made to which schematically illustrates a method of automatically recommending a trade based on portfolio data in accordance with some demonstrative embodiments. In some embodiments one or more operations of the method of may be performed by one or more elements of system e.g. FI based management application .

As indicated at block the method may include receiving trade parameters defining a trade. For example a trader may want to conduct with the bank s clients a certain volume e.g. bounded by minimum and maximum of a specific trade under specified terms e.g. price level. The trade may be defined by the trader for example based on risk opportunity analysis of the trader s portfolio. The trader may use interface to provide application with the trade parameters.

As indicated at block the method may include identifying one or more potential clients for the trade based at least on portfolio data associated with the client. For example application may query for the clients who are most likely e.g. above a threshold to conduct the defined trade e.g. based on portfolio data and or profile data FI information from FI systems CRM information from CRM modules prediction data and or client data .

In some embodiments FI based management application may identify the potential clients based on portfolio data corresponding to each client and optionally one or more of the following which may be included for example as part of client data and or client profile 

As indicated at block the method may include generating a customized trade article corresponding to the proposed trade to be provided to the one or more identified clients e.g. based on client specific management information and or client data . For example FI based management application may tailor the generic trade offer for each identified client in the form of a client specific trade article e.g. a term sheet or trade idea in the format preferred by the client e.g. pdf html ppt and the like.

As indicated at block the method may include communicating the customized trade article based on client specific destination information. For example application may automatically communicate the client customized trade article to the client and or a salesperson in charged of the client e.g. based on destination information corresponding to the client.

As indicated at block in some embodiments the method may include opening a suitable CRM tracking record associated with the client to which the trade is recommended. For example application may automatically open a CRM opportunity record in CRM modules to track the communication in a note within the CRM client record.

As indicated at block in some embodiments the method may include generating one or more suitable CRM alerts e.g. to remind a salesperson in charge of the client to follow up within a predefined time period e.g. the next day. For example application may automatically generate the suitable CRM alerts for CRM modules .

According to one example a trader may want to write sell a large quantity of an option e.g. 1 000 000 000 EUR notional amount of an option e.g. to one or more clients. The option may include for example an option for buying a Call EUR Put US dollar USD at a strike price SP of 1.400 and having a knock out trigger of 1.35 and an expiration date of 1 year from today current spot price of EUR USD is 1.4 . Such Knock out option entitles the holder to buy an agreed amount Notional of EUR on expiry for 1.4 USD per EUR provided the exchange rate never hits or crosses the barrier of 1.35. Such option may be cheaper e.g. market price of 2.9 of the notional than a plain vanilla option with the same strike of 1.4 which has a market price of 5.8 of the notional the knock out option may provide a conditional protection against stronger EUR weaker USD and or the knock out option may provide protection in a weaker EUR stronger USD. On the other hand such option may knock out and the holder will lose his protection which may still buy new protection at better prices and or the holder of the option has to pay a premium which is paid up front.

According to this example application may receive historical data relating to the EUR to USD exchange rate e.g. over the past 3 years and one or more of the following client specific criterions relating to a potential client A e.g. based on client data portfolio data prediction data and or profile corresponding to client A 

Based on analyzing the above inputs application may automatically determine for example that client A should be offered 100 million of the above knock out option at a price of 3.5 which may be slightly above the market . Application may for example automatically generate a trade article customized to the preferences of client A e.g. based on client management information corresponding to client A and may automatically communicate the trade article to a salesperson in charge of the client e.g. based on destination information corresponding to the client.

Reference is also made to which schematically illustrates a method of performing a FI based query in accordance with some demonstrative embodiments. In some non limiting embodiments one or more operations of the method of may be performed by one or more elements of system e.g. FI based management application to query one or more FI systems e.g. systems CRM modules e.g. CRM modules and or databases e.g. database for information requested by a user e.g. user .

As indicated at block the method may include receiving a query request from the user. For example application may receive a query request from user . For example the user may use tool and or interface to define one or more query parameters of the request which may be provided to application e.g. via interface . The query parameters may be based for example on client data profiles and or portfolio data .

As indicated at block the method may also include querying one or more of the FI systems CRM modules and or database to receive information based on the query request. For example application may query one or more of services for FI information corresponding to the query request and or database e.g. to receive client data profiles and or portfolio data corresponding to the query request.

As indicated at block the method may also include providing the queried information to the user. For example application may provide the queried information to the user e.g. via interface . In addition the query may be stored by system for further use for example as part of prediction data and or profiles .

As indicated at block the method may include receiving from the user a selection of one or more results of the query. For example user may use interface to select one or more results of the query provided by application . For example the salesperson may select based on the query results one or more clients to which the salesperson would like to offer a new trade.

As indicated at block the method may include automatically generating one or more customized trade articles based on the selection. For example application may automatically generate one or more customized trade articles based on client specific management information and or client data corresponding to the selected clients.

In some embodiments one or more operations of the method of may be performed to allow a salesperson or sales manager to maximize the aggregate profits charged on executed deals for a pre defined period e.g. 3 months through the retention and increase in average deal size of his best clients . The salesperson may use interface to instruct application to rank the clients managed by the salesperson. The salesperson may then select a subset of one or more of the clients where he would like to invest more sales and support resources promotions and the like. Application may rank the clients for example according to one or more of the following parameters which may be included for example as part of client data and or client profile 

Referring back to in some embodiments application may automatically provide enhanced customer profitability analysis. For example application may be able to complement and enhance traditional profitability assessment techniques with an analysis of current portfolio and exposures targets of the client e.g. as described herein.

In some embodiments application may automatically provide an analysis of customer wallet share and or overall potential. For example based on the investment potential and or hedging needs of a client the application may estimate the business potential of the client for the bank vs. the actual conducted business. A difference may be accounted to competition and or to sub optimal activity from the customer s perspective.

In some embodiments application may automatically provide client specific risk analysis. For example application may analyze various risk profiles of a customer e.g. counterparty exposure to the bank market risk to the bank or market risk for the client. The analysis can be based on both current and past transactions and holdings e.g. which may be received from FI services CRM modules and or database as described herein. This client specific risk analysis may be relied on for marketing and or sales activities and or decisions e.g. in a parallel and complementary manner to customer profitability analysis. For example a company may provide some promotion to its top 10 clients in an index that combines for example past year profitability to the bank expected profits for next year based on holdings and exposures targets and or counterparty exposure to the bank.

In some embodiments application may automatically provide behavioral and or competitive indications for offering one or more structures to one or more clients. For example application may generate a trigger alerting the salesperson to offer a client specific financial product fitting a client profile and or transaction history of the client e.g. as described herein. In one example the client profile may include a trade hit ratio of the client e.g. a ratio between a number of trades offered to the client and a number of trades which were actually executed by the client. A low hit ratio may imply for example that the offers provided to the client were not suitable for the client and or were too expensive for the client compared to other offers. Accordingly application may automatically determine a lower cost or zero cost hedge offer or alternatively customized price of a trade prior to offering the trade to the client. In another example client profile data may indicate that prior offers made to the client were too risky and thus the next one should have a lower risk profile.

In some embodiments application may automatically provide portfolio restructuring for one or more portfolios for example by offering one or more new trades and or modifying one or more trades included in a portfolio e.g. as described herein. For example application may automatically alert the client and or the salesperson in charge of the client with a possibility to better address the client s stated goals e.g. taking into account bank considerations by performing various trades buying selling . In one example application may identify a potential portfolio to be restructured based for example on original sub optimal construction for the portfolio a special price for an option either specific to the financial institution e.g. promotion or via the market changes in market parameters e.g. interest rate underlying price crossing of a pre defined risk limit e.g. too much Delta in the client s portfolio predefined change in the underlying exposure and or changes in the coverage of the hedge changes in client s goals and policies e.g. a hedger that wishes to be better covered or an investor that seeks more profitability a Stop Order for realizing a profit or limiting a loss by buying or selling options availability of new offerings e.g. specific structured product or entirely new option class relevant to the client s goals and or current portfolio triggers based on new opportunities changes in environment and the like which conform to the client s expressed Indication Of Interest IOIs for example the client may specify that he would like to be updated any time a new underlying asset e.g. currency pair or stock is supported for trading current or highly possible credit margin call related to change in the client s portfolio value e.g. growth in potential loss overall position keeping or risk management consideration of the bank that may change the bank s willingness to continue the option contract with the client various calendar events such as holidays economic announcements or company announcements that may impact the underlying asset or the option directly and the like.

In some embodiments application may allow performing risk management position management based on CRM management. For example a trader managing the overall risk of the position can take into account the completion probability weighted outstanding trade proposals. For example if there have been 50 trade proposals for a client to buy 25 delta EUR USD options on an aggregate notional of EUR 500 Million and a weighted completion probability of 70 the trader may take into account some of those deals when projecting his position. Obviously this weighted probability can be a heuristic combination of salesperson forecast client purchase history portfolio analysis market trends and the like. As a result the trader may possibly reduce his risk management costs or leverage interbank client trading opportunities.

In some embodiments application may allow performing CRM management based on risk management position management. For example position management needs or implications can be integrated into pipeline and opportunity management. In one example when examining almost closed opportunities e.g. 70 90 chance for successful closing the risk management position management information may allow granting additional discounts if needed providing sweeteners or otherwise influencing the sales process towards helping the salesperson close the sale.

In some embodiments system may provide value addition to the sales cycle and customer retention rather than constructing a new customer base which is costlier and also an uncertain chase from business perspective. The basic philosophy behind CRM is that a company s relationship with the customer would be the biggest asset in the long run.

By using system an enterprise can provide better customer service increase customer revenues discover new customers cross sell up sell products more effectively help sales staff close deals faster make call centers more efficient and or simplify marketing and sales processes.

The customer profile data gathered in application and or CRM modules from name and address capture to the type of inquiry made could be input from phone interaction websites emails text chat Voice over IP VoIP or even social networking systems wikis or blogs. The use of system may form the crucial front end of any e business strategy. In today s fast paced competitive business environment it s more important than ever to create and maintain long lasting business relationships.

The types of data which may be collected and or handled by application and or CRM modules may include for example responses to campaigns sales and purchase data account information web registration data service and support records demographic data organizational budget size budget status approved pending etc. decision timeframe location and so on.

System may benefit sales organizations for example by increasing the Close Ratio of the salespeople. Salespeople need only follow up on leads that meet a predefined threshold score. This reliable objective lead qualification system has various important positive effects on salespeople they understand the process for qualifying leads so they can trust it they don t feel they re wasting time following up on leads because leads are pre qualified and ultimately they can increase their close ratio because the percentage of viable deals entering the pipeline is higher.

Service and or CRM modules may provide contact information a history of prior interactions related deals such as with a different division in the same company and other important data that help salespeople refresh their memories or get up to speed with a customer they ve inherited from someone else.

While preparing for sales calls can take hours service and or CRM modules may significantly reduce this time. For example at any stage of the sales process however that may be defined by the organization service and or CRM modules may provide a list of specific resources such as PowerPoint presentations white papers success stories and the like. These can be downloaded with a single click. Service and or CRM modules may even be linked to online applications such as Google maps to provide single click driving directions.

Better lead qualification better background information and better access to sales resources all genuinely help salespeople maximize their time work more efficiently and close more deals. Rather than feeling at cross purposes with management salespeople using service and or CRM modules can feel that their goals and the goals of management are aligned.

Some salespeople are well organized. For others organization is a challenge. Either way service and or CRM modules may provide salespeople quick access to existing information about accounts provide convenient ways to collect and add new information and let salespeople create and prioritize tasks to help them stay on track during busy days with constant interruptions.

In most businesses crucial information about deals and customers everything from contact phone numbers to invoicing data is scattered over a variety of corporate database and back end systems. Service and or CRM modules may present the primary information salespeople need to work their deals in a clear single page format. For leads to give one example this includes basic contact information company background revenues number of employees etc. associated accounts and information about the lead itself including its source. Other relevant data such as order histories from a back end financial system can be made available with a single click.

Service and or CRM modules may allow the sales person to collect information relatively easy. Service and or CRM modules may provide simple input forms which may be customized to meet individual or group needs and may be accessed by a variety of endpoint devices e.g. devices with or without requiring the user to be online to access these functions.

Service and or CRM modules may include a CRM home page providing sales reps with a quick overview of everything they need to do including scheduled meetings tasks e.g. created inside the system either by the rep or automatically and alerts which typically are sales department messages and notifications. To help salespeople make decisions on how to spend their time tasks can be prioritized by due date or by the size of the associated deal.

Service and or CRM modules may support the way salespeople work through integration with third party applications. Many would argue that the most important ones are e mail client applications such as Microsoft Outlook the first application that many people in business open every morning. Due to CRM e mail integration users can read their e mail and when something related to leads or opportunities appears transfer information to service and or CRM modules without leaving Outlook. Moreover the transfer method is simple drag and drop with no typing required. Service and or CRM modules may also interact with Web enabled back office systems that previously might have required a separate login. This could provide for example a list of all the orders a customer has placed within a given time period. In addition to integration with software applications service and or CRM modules can also integrate with mobile devices such as BlackBerry Palm and Windows Mobile based devices so salespeople on the road can have a choice of access modes.

Service and or CRM modules may provide important indirect benefits as well. For example service and or CRM modules may include a lead management process that like the lead evaluation process operates objectively based on business rules that can ensure fairness prevent favoritism and eliminate embarrassing mistakes such as assigning the same lead to two different sales reps.

Service and or CRM modules may also provide analytical capabilities. Service and or CRM modules may provide a built in data warehouse that can provide insights into historical trends. These insights don t affect salespeople s day to day lives but they enable a company to make better decisions in marketing and even with new product development. These decisions ultimately affect salespeople s pocketbooks. For example if adjustments to lead generation activities result in a higher percentage of qualified leads at the front end of the sales process this ultimately will be reflected in higher sales volumes and bigger commissions.

Service and or CRM modules may cause the sales organization as a whole to be more successful and as a result the company e.g. a financial institute may be more successful. The success of the company may translate into important personal benefits such as job security and more attractive compensation packages

Some embodiments of the invention for example may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment or an embodiment including both hardware and software elements. Some embodiments may be implemented in software which includes but is not limited to firmware resident software microcode or the like.

Furthermore some embodiments of the invention may take the form of a computer program product accessible from a computer usable or computer readable medium providing program code for use by or in connection with a computer or any instruction execution system. For example a computer usable or computer readable medium may be or may include any apparatus that can contain store communicate propagate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device.

In some embodiments the medium may be an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system or apparatus or device or a propagation medium. Some demonstrative examples of a computer readable medium may include a semiconductor or solid state memory magnetic tape a removable computer diskette a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM a rigid magnetic disk and an optical disk. Some demonstrative examples of optical disks include compact disk read only memory CD ROM compact disk read write CD R W and DVD.

In some embodiments a data processing system suitable for storing and or executing program code may include at least one processor coupled directly or indirectly to memory elements for example through a system bus. The memory elements may include for example local memory employed during actual execution of the program code bulk storage and cache memories which may provide temporary storage of at least some program code in order to reduce the number of times code must be retrieved from bulk storage during execution.

In some embodiments input output or I O devices including but not limited to keyboards displays pointing devices etc. may be coupled to the system either directly or through intervening I O controllers. In some embodiments network adapters may be coupled to the system to enable the data processing system to become coupled to other data processing systems or remote printers or storage devices for example through intervening private or public networks. In some embodiments modems cable modems and Ethernet cards are demonstrative examples of types of network adapters. Other suitable components may be used.

Functions operations components and or features described herein with reference to one or more embodiments may be combined with or may be utilized in combination with one or more other functions operations components and or features described herein with reference to one or more other embodiments or vice versa.

While certain features of embodiments of the invention have been illustrated and described herein many modifications substitutions changes and equivalents may occur to those skilled in the art. It is therefore to be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and changes.

