---

title: Information provision through temporary social networks
abstract: A method for providing location-based information via a temporary social network includes detecting each of a plurality of first user devices within a predetermined proximity of a physical location and, in response, connecting each of the plurality of first user devices to a social network that is associated with the physical location using a communications network. In some embodiments, each of the plurality of first user devices will be connected to the social network for a predetermined amount of time or for as long as they are in the predetermined proximity. While in the social network, location-based information about the physical location is received over the communications network from each of the plurality of first user devices connected to the social network. At least some of that location-based information about the physical location may then be over the communications network to a second user device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09407709&OS=09407709&RS=09407709
owner: PayPal, Inc.
number: 09407709
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130301
---
The present invention generally relates to social networking and more particularly to the provision of information through temporary social networks.

Social networks may be provided by social network systems that provide an online service platform or site that operates through a plurality of computers connected over a network such as for example the Internet. These social network systems facilitate the building of social networks or social relations among people who share interests activities backgrounds real life connections and or a variety of other characteristics known in the art. Such social network systems typically consist of a representation of each user often via a user profile the user s social links and any of a variety of services.

One of the many services provided by social network systems is to obtain information about businesses from users of the social network and provide that information to other users in the social network. For example a user may interact with a business and then rate the business and or write a review about that business such that the rating and or review are stored on the social network system. Other users may then retrieve the rating or an aggregate rating of the business by a plurality of users of the social network and or the review s in order to help to determine whether or not to interact with that business. However such conventional systems suffer from the deficiency that that information provided about those businesses e.g. the reviews and ratings is stale or old i.e. such information was typically provided days weeks months or even years prior to the date that such information is being retrieved. As such the user retrieving that information may be provided an inaccurate view of the business particularly with regard to the date on which the user is retrieving that information and likely considering interacting with the business.

Embodiments of the present disclosure and their advantages are best understood by referring to the detailed description that follows. It should be appreciated that like reference numerals are used to identify like elements illustrated in one or more of the figures wherein showings therein are for purposes of illustrating embodiments of the present disclosure and not for purposes of limiting the same.

The present disclosure describes systems and methods for providing information associated with a physical location through the use of temporary social networks that broadcast information from user devices that have been connected to the social network in response to being within a predetermined proximity of the physical location. The social networks may be temporary in that user devices may be removed from the social network upon leaving the predetermined proximity and or after a predetermined amount of time has passed. Such temporary social networks allow for the leveraging of users located at a physical location to provide real time crowd sourced recommendations and information about the business and or physical location. Information associated with the physical location may be provided to other user devices based on a variety of criteria including but not limited to the other user devices entering the physical location the other user devices being associated with details related to the information and or the physical location e.g. through user profiles requests from the other user devices the other users being linked to the users that provided the information etc.

In the systems and methods discussed below a system provider device provides the temporary social network system to communicate with a plurality of user devices in order to receive location based information from user devices that have entered a physical location and then provide that location based information to other user devices. In some embodiments that system provider device may provide or be coupled to a payment service provider device that provides a payment service system that allows the user to make payments to businesses using the user device. For example a payment service provider such as for example PayPal Inc. of San Jose Calif. may provide a payment service provider system that allows a user to associate one or more payment accounts provided by account providers with a payment service account and then use that payment service account e.g. via the user device to pay for purchases from businesses by transferring funds from the payment account to an account of the business. As such the system provider device may be coupled to a database of purchases e.g. a purchase history made by a user of a user device.

Referring now to a method for providing information using temporary social networks is illustrated. The method begins at block where a social network is provided at a physical location. illustrates an embodiment of a physical area that includes a plurality of physical locations and . As discussed in further details below a physical location may be defined and or occupied by a business merchant or other establishment that caters to users using the user devices discussed below. For example physical locations may include businesses such as grocery stores restaurants bars movie theaters music venues and or a variety of other businesses known in the art. Each of the physical locations and may provide or otherwise be associated with a social network that in the illustrated embodiment is bounded by a perimeter and respectively that may also define a predetermined proximity of the physical location and respectively within which a user device must enter in order to join the social network.

In an embodiment a physical location may include a system provider device that provides a social network using short range network provisioning technologies such as for example Near Field Communication NFC technology Bluetooth technology WiFi technology and or a variety of other short range communications technologies known in the art. For example the system provider device at the physical location may use a short range network provisioning technology that provides for communication within the perimeter such that a user device within that perimeter can communicate with the system provider device to join the social network. In another embodiment a system provider device may define a perimeter for a physical location using coordinates e.g. Global Positioning System GPS coordinates and then monitor the location of user devices to determine when a user device enters that perimeter and may join the social network. For example a system provider device which may or may not be at the physical location may retrieve location information from user devices e.g. from a location determination device in a user device and when the location of a user device coincides with a location within the perimeter ask or allow that user device to join the social network. Such embodiments may be enabled by the user devices communicating with the system provider device upon determining that they have entered the perimeter for a given physical location e.g. using a location determination device in the user device. While a few examples of the provision of a social network at a physical location have been described one of skill in the art will recognize that a social network may be provided at a physical location in a variety of other manners while remaining within the scope of the present disclosure.

In the embodiment illustrated in the physical area may be a variety of physical areas known in the art that include businesses in the different physical locations and . For example the physical area may be a mall with a plurality of different stores in each of the physical locations and such as for example a shoe store a clothing store and a coffee shop. In another example the physical area may be a business district with a plurality of businesses in each of the physical locations and such as a bar a dance club and a restaurant. In another example the physical area may be a business such as a grocery store with a plurality of business areas in each of the physical locations and such as a vegetable section a meat section and a bakery section. While a few examples of the physical area and physical locations have been provided a wide variety of modification to the illustrated embodiment is envisioned as falling within the scope of the present disclosure including any number of physical locations and as few as one physical location providing an associated social network .

In the embodiment of a plurality of user devices are illustrated in the physical area including user devices within the perimeters and of the physical locations and respectively along with user devices and outside of the perimeters and of the physical locations and respectively. As discussed in further detail below users may bring their user devices within a predetermined proximity of the physical locations and or e.g. the user devices in order to join the respective social network associated with that physical location. In some embodiments those user devices may be disconnected from a social network upon moving outside of the predetermined proximity of its associated physical location while in other embodiments those user devices may remain connected to a social network upon moving outside of the predetermined proximity of its associated physical locations for a predetermined amount of time. Thus in some embodiments the user devices and or may be connected to social networks provided by one or more of the physical locations and or while not being within their associated perimeters and or respectively.

Referring now to the method then proceeds to block where a first user device is detected within a predetermined proximity of a physical location. As discussed above with reference to in one embodiment users in the physical area may carry their user devices within a predetermined proximity of physical locations or by moving within the perimeters or respectively. Using the physical location and associated perimeter as an example a user may move within the perimeter with a user device such that the user device is within range the predetermined proximity and may communicate with a system provider device at the physical location using a short range communication technology. In another example a user may cross the perimeter with a user device that periodically sends its location to a system provider device which may be at the physical location or separate from the physical location and the user device will send a location that corresponds to a location within the perimeter the predetermined proximity of the physical location .

The social network detection screen includes a physical location identifier along with a join button and a do not join button . In some embodiments upon detecting the user device within the predetermined proximity of the physical location the system provider device may communicate with the user device to provide the social network detection screen as a webpage or other Internet browser provided screen. For example the entering of the user device within the perimeter of the physical location may cause the user device to display the social network detection screen or allow the user to navigate to the social network detection screen . In other embodiments upon entering within the predetermined proximity of the physical location the user device may provide the social network detection screen through an application running on the user device . For example the entering of the user device within the perimeter of the physical location the user may launch the application on the user device such that the social network detection screen is provided or the user may navigate to the social network detection screen . While a few examples of the detection of the user device and corresponding provision of the social network detection screen have been described a variety of other methods for detection of user devices and or provision of social network detection screens that allow the user to choose whether or not to join the social network at the physical location will fall within the scope of the present disclosure.

The method then proceeds to block where the first user device is connected to the social network. In the illustrated embodiment in response to the user device displaying the social network detection screen after the user bringing the user device within the perimeter of the physical location the user may decide whether or not to join the social network for business XYZ at the physical location by selecting the join button or the do not join button . If the user selects the do not join button the user device will communicate with the system provider device to instruct the system provider device to not connect the user device to the social network for business XYZ at the physical location . If the user selects the join button the user device will communicate with the system provider device to instruct the system provider device to connect the user device to the social network for business XYZ at the physical location .

The moving of user devices within a predetermined proximity of a physical location may occur for any number of user devices and thus a plurality of user devices may be connected to a social network associated with a physical location substantially as described above. Thus referring to any or all of the user devices within the perimeter may be connected to the social network for the physical location any or all of the user devices within the perimeter may be connected to the social network for the physical location and any or all of the user devices within the perimeter may be connected to the social network for the physical location .

Referring now to the method then proceeds to block where location based information about a physical location is received from a first user device. Once user devices are connected to a social network associated with a physical location those user devices may provide location based information about the physical location to the system provider device. Location based information about the physical location may include any information sent from a user device to the system provider device about what is happening at the physical location about a business at the physical location about a recent experience at the physical location and or a variety of other location based information known in the art. A few examples of the provision of location based information are provided below but the provision of any type of location based information from the user devices to the system provider device is envisioned as falling within the scope of the present disclosure.

Referring now to a social network information provision and reporting screen is illustrated. The screen includes a provisioning section and a reporting section . As can be seen the provisioning section includes a plurality of categories e.g. food service and ambiance that allow the user of the user device to provide a rating e.g. 1 to 5 stars along with details about that rating e.g. a text explanation for the rating images audio video etc. . Thus the user of the user device connected to the social network associated with the physical location can provide ratings and details about those ratings for the business at that physical location. The reporting section includes aggregate ratings provided by a plurality of users who are connected or have been recently connected to the social network at that physical location along with the ability to review the details that were provided with each individual rating that makes up the aggregate rating. In the illustrated example a review of the reporting section allows a user to determine a current situation as indicated by the aggregate ratings and details of the business at the physical location. Furthermore the user of the user device which is now connected to the social network at the physical location may provide location based information in the form of the ratings and details in the provisioning section to have that location based information included in the aggregate ratings and details in the reporting section and visible by other users discussed in further detail below. 

While a few examples have been provided above the present disclosure envisions any location based information as falling within its scope including the text information posts illustrated in the rating information illustrated in images captured by cameras on the user devices video captured by cameras on the user devices audio captured by a microphone on the user device statistics about the user devices connected to the social network a physical location e.g. the number of user devices connected to the social network details about the users of the user devices retrieved from their user profiles etc. and or a variety of other information known in the art.

Referring now to the method then proceeds to block where location based information about the physical location is provided to a second user device. While the embodiment illustrated in includes user devices and just outsides the perimeters and of their respective physical locations and as discussed below a second user device that is not in the social network associated with the physical location and that is being provided the location based information about the physical location may be physically remote from that physical location and receiving the location based information over a network such as the Internet. Furthermore as discussed above second user devices that are part of a social network may be provided the location based information associated with that social network as well e.g. through the reporting sections and of the screens and respectively illustrated above. 

In one example a user of a second user device may be at first physical location e.g. their home far away e.g. miles from a second physical location that includes a business and may search and find the social network associated with the second physical location in order to receive the location based information generated by the user devices connected to that social network in order to determine what is happening at that physical location and its associated business. In another example the user of a second user device e.g. the user devices or may be outside the perimeters and of the physical locations and and may either request or be automatically provided the location based information generated by the user devices connected to the social network associated with the physical location. In yet another embodiment the user of a second user device may include a user profile e.g. a social network profile that is connected or linked to the user profile of a user that provided location based information associated with a physical location e.g. the user of the second user device may be following the user that provided the location based information and due to that linking or connection the user of the second user device may be provided the location based information discussed herein. In the discussed below a few examples of the display of such location based information are provided but any manner of receiving any type of location based information is envisioned as falling within the scope of the present disclosure.

In some embodiments the location based information provided to the second user device e.g. as illustrated on the screen or other screens discussed below may be provided to the second user device based upon information on the second user device or information associated with the user and or the second user device . In an embodiment the second user device may include or be associated with a calendar that includes information detailing future plans of the user. For example the user of the second user device may include information associated with a calendar that details plans to attend the music venue A illustrated on the screen and the second user device and or system provider device may use that information to provide the screen reporting the location based information for music venue A to the second user device . As such calendar information email information text information browsing histories weather information and or a variety over other information that may be included on a user device may be mined or otherwise used to determine user relevant location based information reporting screens to provide to the user via the second user device .

While a few examples of the filtering of location based information have been discussed above those examples are not meant to be limiting. Filtering of images audio video and or location based information other than the text in the illustrated embodiments are envisioned as falling within the scope of the present disclosure.

In an embodiment the social network indicators and social network links may be determined and provided to the user device based on a user profile as well as or instead of the location of the user device . For example the user device may be associated with a user profile e.g. through a social network account of the user of the user device that includes information or details about the user such as for example favorite foods music books movies and or that provide a variety of other details about the user. At block the user device and the system provider device may communicate those details from the user profile such that the user device and or system provider device may determine the social networks that are most relevant to the user of the user device . For example the social network links may include a link for restaurant A that serves food listed as a favorite food in the user profile a link for music venue A which is scheduled to play music from a band listed as a favorite band in the user profile or that plays a favorite music listed in the user profile and a link for movie theater A that is scheduled to play a movie that is similar to a movie listed as a favorite movie in the user profile. Furthermore as discussed above the social network indicators and social network links may be for social networks selected using information on the user device as discussed above e.g. email information text information calendar information etc. 

The method then proceeds to block where a first user device is disconnected from the social network. As discussed above in some embodiments the social network provided at a physical location may be temporary with respect to the user devices connected to it. When and how a user device is disconnected from the social network at a physical location may be based on location of the user device a time the user device has been connected to the social network and or a variety of other factors. For example a user device illustrated in may be disconnected from a social network associated with a physical location or in response to being moved outside of the perimeter or respectively of that physical location or . In another embodiment a user device that is connected to a social network associated with a physical location or may remain connected to that social network after being moved outside of its associated perimeter or respectively for a predetermined amount of time. For example the user device or illustrated in may have connected to a social network associated with one of the physical locations or and then moved outside of its perimeter or and those user devices or may remain connected to the social network and have the ability to provide location based information about that physical location for a predetermined amount of time e.g. see the reporting section illustrated in displaying location based information received from a fourth user that provided that location based information about business XYZ the day following that user and their user device being located at the physical location of business XYZ. 

In some embodiments temporary social networks associated with a physical location may include any user device located within a predetermined proximity of the physical location within a predetermined time. For example a user with a user device may move within the perimeter of a physical location and that user may then be connected to a social network that is associated with that physical location and includes any user device that has been within the perimeter of a physical location and accepted a connection to the social network within the last 2 hours. In some embodiments groups of user devices within a social network may be grouped by purchase histories i.e. the system provider device may review purchase histories of users associated with the user devices in the social network and group user devices together if they have similar purchase histories current purchases i.e. the system provider device may monitor purchases made using the user devices in the social network and group user devices together if they are currently making similar purchases products viewed i.e. the system provider device may monitor the specific locations of the user devices that are within the perimeter of the physical location and group user devices together if they spent a predetermined amount of time in a particular area and thus can be assumed to have been viewing particular products in the physical location and or using a variety of other grouping criteria known in the art.

Furthermore the amount of time a social network may be active for a particular user may be determined by the amount of time the user typically spends at the physical location. For example if a user typically spends thirty minutes when shopping at a business at the physical location upon entering the perimeter of the physical location the user device of that user may be connected to a social network that includes other user devices that have been at that physical location in the last thirty minutes. In some examples a minimum amount of time may be necessary to provide an adequately sized social network i.e. a user may spend an average of 5 minutes any time they visit a particular location but the social network for that user upon entering that physical location may include any user devices in that physical location in the past 15 minutes. 

Thus a system and method for information provision using temporary social networks has been described that creates social networks at physical locations in order to allow users at those physical locations or users that have recently been at that physical location to provide location based information about those physical locations. That location based information may then be provided to other users to allow those other users to determine the current status of the physical location. Thus users at the physical location may provide real time recommendations about the physical location to other users and those other users may use the real time location based information to determine whether it would be worthwhile to them to go to the physical location what would be most worthwhile to them to do at the physical location etc. In some embodiments users must be physically located at the physical location to join its associated social network and provide location based information ensuring to other users that the location based information about the physical location is timely and provided by users that are actually present at the physical location.

Referring now to an embodiment of a network based system for implementing one or more processes described herein is illustrated. As shown network based system may comprise or implement a plurality of servers and or software components that operate to perform various methodologies in accordance with the described embodiments. Exemplary servers may include for example stand alone and enterprise class servers operating a server OS such as a MICROSOFT OS a UNIX OS a LINUX OS or other suitable server based OS. It can be appreciated that the servers illustrated in may be deployed in other ways and that the operations performed and or the services provided by such servers may be combined or separated for a given implementation and may be performed by a greater number or fewer number of servers. One or more servers may be operated and or maintained by the same or different entities.

The embodiment of the networked system illustrated in includes a plurality of user devices a plurality of business devices a payment service provider device a plurality of account holder devices and or a system provider device in communication over a network . Any of the user devices may be the user devices and or discussed above. The business devices may be the devices operated by the businesses at the physical locations discussed above. The payment service provider device may be the payment service provider devices discussed above and may be operated by a payment service provider such as for example PayPal Inc. of San Jose Calif. The account provider devices may be the account provider devices discussed above and may be operated by the account providers discussed above such as for example credit card account providers bank account providers savings account providers and a variety of other account providers known in the art. The system provider device may as discussed above be located at a physical location or remote from a physical location and operated by a third party with respect to the user business system provider and or account provider to provide the social networks discussed above.

The user devices business devices payment service provider device account provider devices and or system provider device may each include one or more processors memories and other appropriate components for executing instructions such as program code and or data stored on one or more computer readable mediums to implement the various applications data and steps described herein. For example such instructions may be stored in one or more computer readable mediums such as memories or data storage devices internal and or external to various components of the system and or accessible over the network .

The network may be implemented as a single network or a combination of multiple networks. For example in various embodiments the network may include the Internet and or one or more intranets landline networks wireless networks and or other appropriate types of networks.

The user device may be implemented using any appropriate combination of hardware and or software configured for wired and or wireless communication over network . For example in one embodiment the user device may be implemented as a personal computer of a user in communication with the Internet. In other embodiments the user device may be a smart phone personal digital assistant PDA laptop computer and or other types of computing devices.

The user device may include one or more browser applications which may be used for example to provide a convenient interface to permit the user to browse information available over the network . For example in one embodiment the browser application may be implemented as a web browser configured to view information available over the Internet.

The user device may also include one or more toolbar applications which may be used for example to provide user side processing for performing desired tasks in response to operations selected by the user. In one embodiment the toolbar application may display a user interface in connection with the browser application.

The user device may further include other applications as may be desired in particular embodiments to provide desired features to the user device . In particular the other applications may include a payment application for payments assisted by a payment service provider through the payment service provider device . The other applications may also include security applications for implementing user side security features programmatic user applications for interfacing with appropriate application programming interfaces APIs over the network or other types of applications. Email and or text applications may also be included which allow the user to send and receive emails and or text messages through the network . The user device includes one or more user and or device identifiers which may be implemented for example as operating system registry entries cookies associated with the browser application identifiers associated with hardware of the user device or other appropriate identifiers such as a phone number. In one embodiment the user identifier may be used by the payment service provider device account provider device and or the system provider device to associate the user with a particular account as further described herein.

The business device may be maintained for example by a conventional or online merchant conventional or digital goods seller individual seller and or application developer offering various products and or services in exchange for payment to be received conventionally or over the network . In this regard the business device may include a database identifying available products and or services e.g. collectively referred to as items which may be made available for viewing and purchase by the user.

The business device also includes a checkout application which may be configured to facilitate the purchase by the payer of items. The checkout application may be configured to accept payment information from the user through the user device the account provider through the account provider device and or from the payment service provider through the payment service provider device over the network .

Referring now to an embodiment of a user device is illustrated. The user device may be the user devices and or . The user device includes a chassis having a display and an input device including the display and a plurality of input buttons . One of skill in the art will recognize that the user device is a portable or mobile phone including a touch screen input device and a plurality of input buttons that allow the functionality discussed above with reference to the method . However a variety of other portable mobile user devices and or desktop user devices may be used in the method without departing from the scope of the present disclosure.

Referring now to an embodiment of a computer system suitable for implementing for example the user device the user device the user device the user device the business device the payment service provider device the account provider device and or the system provider device is illustrated. It should be appreciated that other devices utilized by users businesses payment service providers account providers and or system providers in the payment system discussed above may be implemented as the computer system in a manner as follows.

In accordance with various embodiments of the present disclosure computer system such as a computer and or a network server includes a bus or other communication mechanism for communicating information which interconnects subsystems and components such as a processing component e.g. processor micro controller digital signal processor DSP etc. a system memory component e.g. RAM a static storage component e.g. ROM a disk drive component e.g. magnetic or optical a network interface component e.g. modem or Ethernet card a display component e.g. CRT or LCD an input component e.g. keyboard keypad or virtual keyboard a cursor control component e.g. mouse pointer or trackball and or a location determination component e.g. a Global Positioning System GPS device as illustrated a cell tower triangulation device and or a variety of other location determination devices known in the art. In one implementation the disk drive component may comprise a database having one or more disk drive components.

In accordance with embodiments of the present disclosure the computer system performs specific operations by the processor executing one or more sequences of instructions contained in the memory component such as described herein with respect to the user device and the business device s the payment service provider device the account provider device s and or the system provider device . Such instructions may be read into the system memory component from another computer readable medium such as the static storage component or the disk drive component . In other embodiments hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement the present disclosure.

Logic may be encoded in a computer readable medium which may refer to any medium that participates in providing instructions to the processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. In one embodiment the computer readable medium is non transitory. In various implementations non volatile media includes optical or magnetic disks such as the disk drive component volatile media includes dynamic memory such as the system memory component and transmission media includes coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including wires that comprise the bus . In one example transmission media may take the form of acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio wave and infrared data communications.

Some common forms of computer readable media includes for example floppy disk flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium CD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes RAM PROM EPROM FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer is adapted to read. In one embodiment the computer readable media is non transitory.

In various embodiments of the present disclosure execution of instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure may be performed by the computer system . In various other embodiments of the present disclosure a plurality of the computer systems coupled by a communication link to the network e.g. such as a LAN WLAN PTSN and or various other wired or wireless networks including telecommunications mobile and cellular phone networks may perform instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure in coordination with one another.

The computer system may transmit and receive messages data information and instructions including one or more programs i.e. application code through the communication link and the network interface component . The network interface component may include an antenna either separate or integrated to enable transmission and reception via the communication link . Received program code may be executed by processor as received and or stored in disk drive component or some other non volatile storage component for execution.

Referring now to an embodiment of a system provider device is illustrated. In an embodiment the device may be a business device the payment service provider device the account holder device and or the system provider device . The device includes a communication engine that is coupled to the network and to a social network engine that is coupled to each of a user database that includes data about users and a location database that includes data about physical locations and their associated social networks. The communication engine may be software or instructions stored on a computer readable medium that allows the device to send and receive information over the network . The social network engine may be software or instructions stored on a computer readable medium that is operable to detect user devices connect user devices to one or more social networks associated with physical locations in the physical location database receive location based information from user devices provider location based information to other user devices disconnect user devices from social networks and provide any of the other functionality that is discussed above. While the databases and have been illustrated as located in the device one of skill in the art will recognize that it may be connected to the social network engine through the network without departing from the scope of the present disclosure.

Where applicable various embodiments provided by the present disclosure may be implemented using hardware software or combinations of hardware and software. Also where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be combined into composite components comprising software hardware and or both without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be separated into sub components comprising software hardware or both without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. In addition where applicable it is contemplated that software components may be implemented as hardware components and vice versa.

Software in accordance with the present disclosure such as program code and or data may be stored on one or more computer readable mediums. It is also contemplated that software identified herein may be implemented using one or more general purpose or specific purpose computers and or computer systems networked and or otherwise. Where applicable the ordering of various steps described herein may be changed combined into composite steps and or separated into sub steps to provide features described herein.

The foregoing disclosure is not intended to limit the present disclosure to the precise forms or particular fields of use disclosed. As such it is contemplated that various alternate embodiments and or modifications to the present disclosure whether explicitly described or implied herein are possible in light of the disclosure. For example the above embodiments have focused on users and businesses however a user or consumer can pay or otherwise interact with any type of recipient including charities and individuals. The interactions do not have to involve a purchase but may be a loan a charitable contribution a gift etc. Thus business as used herein can also include charities individuals and any other entity or person interacting with a user. Having thus described embodiments of the present disclosure persons of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that changes may be made in form and detail without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Thus the present disclosure is limited only by the claims.

