---

title: Tapered V underbody protection enhancement
abstract: A system reducing blast induced vehicle floor oscillation has a hull with brackets whose shoulders face edges of the vehicle sidewalls. The hull has a first position where the shoulders form a vertical gap with these edges and a second, risen position where the shoulders hit the edges. The brackets are connected to the sidewalls so as to permit rise of the brackets and V hull when a blast occurs but hold the V hull in the first position during normal vehicle use. Mounts on the vehicle frame are compressible by a vertical distance and support the cab. Rods of the hull are at another vertical distance from the frame. The sum of the vertical distances is equal to the vertical gap. When a blast occurs, the V hull's rise creates separate force paths from the hull to the floor to reduce floor oscillation.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08826796&OS=08826796&RS=08826796
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 08826796
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130131
---
The invention described here may be made used and licensed by and for the U.S. Government for governmental purposes without paying royalty to me.

The invention is within the area of technology associated with protecting vehicles and their occupants from explosions of mines or improvised explosive devices typically encountered by military vehicles in combat zones. Generally this technology involves adding armor to the underside of vehicles and specially shaping the lower hulls of the vehicles typically armored V shaped hulls or somewhat V shaped hulls are used to protect the vehicles and the vehicle occupants. One aspect of the invention herein is a blast shield in the form of a V hull thickest at the vertex and tapering in the outboard direction to brackets which have sliding engagement with sidewalls of the vehicle cab the V hull and brackets form an integral one piece component.

A problem that has been encountered in some vehicle designs is that the floor of the cab or cabin of the vehicle oscillates violently as a result of an under vehicle explosion. The oscillation is known to injure the occupants of the vehicle the lower limbs of the occupants being particularly vulnerable to the effects of floor oscillation. The invention herein mitigates blast induced floor oscillation by controlling the paths of blast forces passed to the floor. Specifically the invention utilizes an improved system having a V shaped hull as a blast shield that can rise or descend relative to the vehicle frame. When an explosion under the vehicle occurs the V hull contacts the frame and sidewall so as to divide blast forces into two discrete components travelling along different paths in the vehicle. The discrete force components arrive at the vehicle floor essentially simultaneously at different locations whereby floor oscillation is reduced.

It is already known to employ either a truncated V shaped hull or a shallow V hull on a vehicle to enhance its ability to resist or survive mine blasts or similar explosions occurring under the vehicle. For example U.S. Patent Application 2012 0174767 A1 of Naroditsky et al shows a shallow V belly armor plate under a vehicle cab and attached to sidewalls of a vehicle. That reference at paragraph 40 also teaches making the V armor plate thicker at the central portion thereof. U.S. Pat. No. 7 997 182 B1 to Cox shows a V shaped blast shield having ribs and other components reinforcing the vertex zone of the shield. U.S. Patent Application publication 2010 0307329 A1 to Kaswen et al shows an underbody blast shield capable of vertical rise and fall due to shock absorbers connecting the shield to the vehicle.

In addition to the foregoing references a previous and relevant United States patent application has been filed by the inventor herein. The previous application is entitled Truncated V Underbody Protection Enhancement has application Ser. No. 13 677 202 and EFS ID 14232024 and was filed Nov. 14 2012. The previous application discloses a rigid armor shield configured as a truncated V disposed below the floor of a vehicle cab. First elastomeric isolators are between the shield and vehicle frame members and second elastomeric isolators are between lateral edges of the shield and the cab s side walls. If an under vehicle blast occurs the distance through which the second isolators collapse equals the combined collapsing distance of the first isolators and the cab mounts whereby blast loads to the shield transfer along separate paths to different zones of the floor so as to decrease oscillation of the floor.

The invention is a system for reducing oscillation of the vehicle cab floor after an explosive blast under the vehicle. The system includes a one piece V hull thicker at the vertex than at the outboard edges. The V hull has brackets whose shoulders face lower edges of the cab s sidewalls. The V hull has a first position where the shoulders are spaced by a vertical dimension from the lower edges of the sidewalls and has a second position where the shoulders contact the lower edges of the sidewalls. Connector plates are mounted to the brackets and the sidewalls such that the brackets and connector plates interleaf between them the lower edges of the sidewalls. First fasteners connect the brackets to the sidewalls and second fasteners connect the connector plates to brackets. The respective fasteners pass through slots which permit vertical movement of the brackets relative to the sidewalls. The first and second fasteners maintain the V hull in the first position during normal vehicle operation but allow movement of the V hull toward second position when blast forces impact the V hull. Body mounts compressible by a first vertical distance are on the vehicle frame to support the cab and transverse tension rods fastened to the V hull are at a second vertical distance from the frame. The sum of the first vertical distance and the second vertical distance essentially equals the vertical dimension between the shoulders of the brackets and the lower edges of the sidewalls. By this arrangement when a blast occurs beneath the V hull the V hull rises and creates two separate simultaneous force paths from the V hull to the floor of the cab and thereby floor oscillation is reduced.

The following definitions and terminology are applied as understood by one skilled in the appropriate art.

The singular forms such as a an and the include plural references unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. For example reference to a material includes reference to one or more of such materials and an element includes reference to one or more of such elements.

As used herein substantial and about when used in reference to a quantity or amount of a material dimension characteristic parameter and the like refer to an amount that is sufficient to provide an effect that the material or characteristic was intended to provide as understood by one skilled in the art. The amount of variation generally depends on the specific implementation. Similarly substantially free of or the like refers to the lack of an identified composition characteristic or property. Particularly assemblies that are identified as being substantially free of are either completely absent of the characteristic or the characteristic is present only in values which are small enough that no meaningful effect on the desired results is generated. The phrases substantially equal or essentially equal when applied to two or more quantities means the desired effect will occur despite slight deviation from exact equality.

Concentrations values dimensions amounts and other quantitative data may be presented herein in a range format. One skilled in the art will understand that such range format is used for convenience and brevity and should be interpreted flexibly to include not only the numerical values explicitly recited as the limits of the range but also to include all the individual numerical values or sub ranges encompassed within that range as if each numerical value and sub range is explicitly recited. For example a size range of about 1 dimensional unit to about 100 dimensional units should be interpreted to include not only the explicitly recited limits but also to include individual sizes such as 2 dimensional units 3 dimensional units 10 dimensional units and the like and sub ranges such as 10 dimensional units to 50 dimensional units 20 dimensional units to 100 dimensional units and the like.

Oscillation as used in this application can include a single motion such as the rise of a vehicle cab floor and can include the subsequent fall of the floor oscillation as used herein can include as a series of oscillating motions and includes motions in any given direction not just a vertical direction.

For a vehicle and a system mounted on or used in connection with the vehicle forward reverse longitudinal and vertical up down directions are generally relative to the vehicle and system as typically operated e.g. when the vehicle is operated with the respective powertrain in a forward reverse mode . As such lateral left right directions are generally perpendicular to the longitudinal vertical plane and are referenced from a vehicle operator e.g. driver perspective. A first direction e.g. forward and a second direction e.g. rearward or reverse where the second direction substantially but not necessarily wholly opposes the first direction are also generally or used in connection with the vehicle. Likewise elements located mounted positioned placed installed etc. on near or proximate to the vehicle longitudinal center plane are generally referred to as inner or inboard while elements that are distal or more remote to the vehicle body longitudinal center plane are generally referred to as outer or outboard unless otherwise noted. As such inner elements are generally closer to the vehicle longitudinal center plane than outer elements.

An overview of the system to reduce vehicle cab floor rise or oscillation due to under body explosions is seen in . That figure is a cross section of the underbody region of a vehicle located above a ground surface . The underbody region is supported on a frame having longitudinal frame members and lateral frame extensions affixed thereto. Fixed upon frame extensions are conventional body mounts which support and connect to cab partially shown of the vehicle the mounts connection to the frame and cab being shown in greater detail in . As can be seen in and also cab has cab mount points such as forward mount points to which mounts are engaged. The cab has a floor section disposed above V hull and has cab forward wall and cab aft wall as seen in .

Returning to a tapered V hull or blast shield is mounted on the underside of vehicle beneath the longitudinal frame members. V hull is relatively thicker at vertex which will be disposed under the longitudinal axis of the vehicle. The thickness of V hull gradually decreases from vertex in the outboard direction and thus has a tapered cross sectional profile wherein the thinnest portions of V hull are at zones near the hull s outboard edges. By this design the portions of hull will be thicker and stronger as they are nearer to ground surface where mine blasts or the like occur. It is preferred that V hull be an integral component meaning that it is comprised of a single piece wherein individual layers sub plates shoulders are not assembled or joined to form the V hull and wherein V hull is formed from a single blank or block of material. The V hull can be made of any material normally used for military vehicle hulls such as armor grade aluminum or steel composite armor material but can be made from non armor material as well. As also shown in somewhat Z shaped attachment brackets are integrally joined to zones at the outboard edges of hull .

As best seen in conjunction with and a set of transverse structural members preferably in the form of tension rods extend laterally across V hull . Tension rods are fastened at either end to attachment brackets by any suitable means such as nuts . Tension rods stiffen V hull and act as a mechanism to transfer blast forces impinging the V hull to vehicle frame members when the V hull rises during an underbody blast as will be explained more fully later in this application. The tension rods are relatively slender typically but not necessarily having diameters in the range of 0.75 inches to 2.0 inches the diameters can be larger or smaller in particular applications. The tension rods are easily removed and replaced and can be positioned so as to pass between or otherwise accommodate automotive components disposed above V hull . For example in tension rods are placed so as to avoid interference with transmission and the connection between drive shaft and transfer case . The slender diameter of the rods and their ability to be positioned to accommodate automotive components make the rods more advantageous than relatively heavier bulkier fixed position braces or ribs typically used to reinforce underbody blast shields. It may be preferred in some applications to have rods of rectangular cross sectional shape or other cross sectional shape. It may be desired to have flat upper surfaces of the rods faced toward frame members to avoid stress risers when the rods strike the frame members.

Tension rods complete a strong rigid triangular truss structure with V hull and these rods are under tension when blast shield or V hull undergoes a blast load. When an under vehicle explosive blast occurs the tension rods contact longitudinal frame members and cause a distribution of the load over a set of contacts between the rods and the frame members. This distribution prevents failure of frame members due to stress concentration thereon the distribution avoids undesirably high load rates which can cause frame members to fail before the maximum load occurs. Additionally rods because they are slender and under tension will give or deform slightly but sufficiently to reduce stress rate or load rate as the rods strike frame members so as to avoid premature failure of the frame members. That is the deflection or deformation of the rods will reduce the rate of vertical load transmission to longitudinal frame members . This is important since automotive frame material is often stress rate sensitive failing at lower loads when subjected to higher loading rates.

The structure by which V hull is connected to sidewalls of the vehicle is shown in but certain details of that structure are understood more easily in conjunction with and . It will be noted that sidewalls each define at their bases a notched or indented foot zone . As best seen in foot zone faces against an inboard surface of a flange of bracket surface being disposed adjacently above shoulder surface of the bracket. Brackets are in sliding contact with sidewalls and as seen in the brackets are connected by bolts or other conventional fasteners to the sidewalls at vertical slots of the brackets.

Facing on the sidewalls are connector plates positioned such that the connector plates and the flanges closely sandwich or interleaf therebetween the lower portions of sidewalls . Connector plates define first rows of vertically oriented slots along their lower edges so as to permit upward movement of brackets and V hull relative to the connector plates.

Brackets are fastened at slots to plates by bolts or other conventional fasteners which hold brackets tightly enough to the plates so that brackets and tapered V hull do not rise relative to the plate during normal vehicle operation. However slots permit sliding of V hull upward relative to the plate when an explosion occurs beneath V hull . As with bolts other bolts hold the brackets and sidewall together tightly enough such that brackets and tapered V hull do not rise relative to the sidewalls during normal vehicle operation. However vertical slots permit sliding of V hull upward relative to the sidewalls when an explosion occurs beneath V hull .

As a result of the structure described above V hull during normal vehicle operation remains stationary relative to plates and sidewalls and hull does not rise toward longitudinal frame members . Conversely during an underbody explosion V hull will rise relative to plate sidewalls and longitudinal frame members . During normal vehicle travel especially during travel over rough terrain the frame and sidewalls of the vehicle can twist or deform as usual and desired without impairment by the rigidity of V hull .

Slots and have vertical dimensions such that the distance which brackets allow V hull to rise is equal to or substantially equal to the sum of the vertical distance between tension rods and longitudinal frame members the vertical deflection of rods when they strike frame members and the vertical compression of mounts . It will be noted that the vertical deflection of rods will typically though not necessarily be so small in relation to the other distances that it can as a practical matter be disregarded. In any event when an explosive blast occurs beneath vehicle and V hull rises force from the blast is transmitted simultaneously along two paths from V hull to different zones of cab floor . One path is through sidewalls and thence to floor and the other path is through the vehicle frame and then through mounts and thence to cab floor . The result of having forces arrive simultaneously at the different zones of floor is that the floor has a smaller rise with respect to the cabin as a result of the blast which reduces the injury to the lower limbs of vehicle occupants whose feet are on the floor or on a floor mat which rests on the floor . In another manner of speaking the violent oscillation or rapid rise during through one or more cycles of floor is reduced when an underbody blast occurs.

There is a de concentrating effect on floor oscillation due to the above described sandwiching or interleafing engagement of connector plates and flanges with sidewalls which causes the movement of V hull to be vertically guided as it moves relative to the sidewalls. This vertical guide engagement together with the rigidity of V hull as enhanced by tension rods means that all portions of V hull will rise substantially equally wherever an explosive blast occurs under the vehicle. Thus the V hull causes transfer of blast loads to different zones of floor equally no matter where the blast occurs under the vehicle thus the V hull negates the tendency for blasts under one side of the vehicle to more greatly affect the floor zone on that side of the vehicle.

It will happen occasionally that a vehicle travelling over rough terrain will encounter objects that strike the underside of the vehicle with sufficient force to move V hull upward from its normal completely down position shown in . Bolts and will tend to hold V hull in the new more upward position via frictional forces. However as the vehicle continues to travel over the terrain the frame of the vehicle continues to twist so that portions of longitudinal frame members will make contact with and push downward on tension rods . The holding force of bolts and is small enough to permit downward movement of V hull as the vehicle frame twists so that V hull returns to its normal completely down position. Thus the system of which the V hull is part is self adjusting in that the system returns the V hull to its normal position if the V hull has been pushed upward during vehicle operation.

Various alterations and modifications will become apparent to those skilled in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of this invention and it is understood this invention is limited only by the following claims.

