---

title: Unified and best messaging systems for communication devices
abstract: A unified messaging system which can provide messaging services for a plurality of different “message types” is disclosed. The unified messaging system can serve as a single interface to a number of messaging services provided by various messaging components which use different message types (e.g., mail server). A unified message type is implemented and presented to a user as an abstract message. In addition, the unified messaging system can automatically determine, based on a first selected feature, if one or more message types should be used. A particular message type can also be automatically selected as a “best message type” based on one or more selected options.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08942358&OS=08942358&RS=08942358
owner: Lenovo Group Limited
number: 08942358
owner_city: Quarry Bay
owner_country: HK
publication_date: 20131223
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 765 570 filed Feb. 12 2013 entitled Unified and Best Messaging Systems for Communication Devices which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 722 343 filed Mar. 11 2010 entitled Unified and Best Messaging Systems for Communication Devices now U.S. Pat. No. 8 391 450 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 981 970 filed Nov. 4 2004 entitled Unified and Best Messaging Systems for Communication Devices now U.S. Pat. No. 7 756 256 which claims the benefit of Provisional U.S. Patent Application No. 60 525 564 filed Nov. 26 2003 entitled Best Messaging each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The present invention relates to communication systems and more particularly to a messaging system used for exchanging information between various communication environments.

Modern communication systems facilitate communication of information in many forms and between various communication devices e.g. computers wireless terminals or devices cellular telephones pagers personal digital assistants etc. . Given the popularity of modem communication systems extensive efforts have been made by a number of entities to provide users with increasingly better communication devices. These devices among other things provide a messaging system that allows users to exchange information. The messaging system can serve as an interface to a messaging services provided by a particular messaging provider or messaging server.

Typically handheld communication devices have a relatively small amount of display space available in comparison to desktop devices e.g. a personal desktop computer . Hence the same solutions used to solve problems encountered in the desktop environment may not be as effective for the handheld communication devices.

Moreover the large number of different message types used today has introduced new challenges. A message type may for example pertain to a particular messaging protocol e.g. SMS EMS WAP 275 276 imode mail SMTP POPS and or message formats e.g. text slideshow . This means that many message types can be formed for example when a particular message format is used with a particular messaging protocol. By way of example considering only two message protocols SMS and MMS many message types can be appropriately used e.g. SMS Text SMS Rich EMS MMS slideshow SMIL MMS multipart inline . Each message type has its own technical capabilities limitations and other particular attributes e.g. message size limit cost . Moreover some message protocols may not support a particular format. These complexities have negatively affected the experience of the users of modern messaging systems. Typically these users have to learn about various messaging interfaces e.g. SMSC MMSC I mode server SMTP server POP server . As a result some users of messaging systems had to learn the technical capabilities and limitations of various message protocols formats and other technical details in order to exchange messages. Other users have often been frustrated and or confused when a feature or option that is inappropriate and or not desired has been selected.

Broadly speaking the invention relates to a messaging system in a computing environment that may include a plurality of different message types . A message type may for example pertain to a particular messaging protocol and or message format. In general a message type has one or more distinguishable characteristics which may be entirely based on form or conventions used to process the message.

In accordance with one aspect of the invention a unified messaging system can provide messaging services in a computing environment that may include a plurality of different message types . As will be appreciated the unified messaging system can serve as a single interface to a number of messaging services provided by various messaging components which use different message types e.g. mail server .

In one embodiment the unified message system generates a unified message type which can be implemented and presented to a user as an abstract message that does not pertain to a particular message type. In addition the unified messaging system can provide the user with a set of abstract features or options that the user can select without having to know or identify a particular message type. The abstract features can for example include a set of abstract operations that can be performed on a abstract message e.g. send receive attach slideshow acknowledge receipt phone as well as other components which may be useful in a messaging environment and possibly combined with one or more abstract operations e.g. send bob send bob acknowledgment receipt send bob slideshow . Moreover the unified messaging system can automatically determine based on a first selected feature if one or more message types should be used. Message types that should not be used are automatically eliminated and the user can be presented only with a set of options that are still viable based on what has already been selected. In addition a particular message type is automatically selected as a best message type based on one or more abstract selected options. The unified message can then be transformed to a particular message type i.e. best message type and transmitted. It should be noted that a particular message type may also be transformed to an abstract message which is presented to the user. In any case a user can use a single messaging interface to services provided by various messaging servers. In addition the user may use the services without having to know or select a particular message type as an appropriate message type can be automatically selected for the user. It should also be noted that only viable features or options can be displayed for the user in accordance with one embodiment of the invention. As a result the user of the messaging system is not confronted with many potentially inappropriate features or options . Hence the user s experience is significantly improved and user will be free form learning the technical limitations and capabilities associated with various message types.

The invention can be implemented in numerous ways including as a method an apparatus and computer readable media. Several embodiments of the invention are discussed below.

Other aspects and advantages of the invention will become apparent from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings illustrating by way of example the principles of the invention.

The invention pertains to a messaging system in a computing environment that may include a plurality of different message types . A message type may for example pertain to a particular messaging protocol and or message format. In general a message type has one or more distinguishable characteristics which may be entirely based on form or conventions used to process the message.

In accordance with one aspect of the invention a unified messaging system can provide messaging services in a computing environment that may include a plurality of different message types . As will be appreciated the unified messaging system can serve as a single interface to a number of messaging services provided by various messaging components which use different message types e.g. mail server .

In one embodiment the unified message system generates a unified message type which can be implemented and presented to a user as an abstract message that does not pertain to a particular message type. In addition the unified messaging system can provide the user with a set of abstract features or options that the user can select without having to know or identify a particular message type. The abstract features can for example include a set of abstract operations that can be performed on a abstract message e.g. send receive attach slideshow acknowledge receipt phone as well as other components which may be useful in a messaging environment and possibly combined with one or more abstract operations e.g. send bob send bob acknowledge receipt send bob slideshow . Moreover the unified messaging system can automatically determine based on a first selected feature if one or more message types should be used. Message types that should not be used are automatically eliminated and the user can be presented only with a set of options that are still viable based on what has already been selected. In addition a particular message type is automatically selected as a best message type based on one or more abstract selected options. The unified message can then be transformed to a particular message type i.e. best message type and transmitted. It should be noted that a particular message type may also be transformed to an abstract message which is presented to the user. In any case a user can use a single messaging interface to services provided by various messaging servers. In addition the user may use the services without having to know or select a particular message type as an appropriate message type can be automatically selected for the user. It should also be noted that only viable features or options can be displayed for the user in accordance with one embodiment of the invention. As a result the user of the messaging system is not confronted with many potentially inappropriate features or options . Hence the user s experience is significantly improved and user will be free form learning the technical limitations and capabilities associated with various message types.

Embodiments of the invention are discussed below with reference to . However those skilled in the art will readily appreciate that the detailed description given herein with respect to these figures is for explanatory purposes as the invention extends beyond these limited embodiments.

For ease of illustration the enhanced communication device is depicted in as providing a unified messaging system . However as will be appreciated by those skilled in the art the operations related to unified messaging system can entirely or partially be performed at the server . Alternatively the unified messaging system can be implemented as a part of the hardware and or software in the enhanced communication device . In any case the unified messaging system provides a unified messaging environment where various protocols and message types may be integrated. Moreover in the integrated environment provided by the unified messaging system the user does not have to learn about the capabilities and limitations of various protocols and or message types that can be used to exchange messages partly because a unified messaging system is provided. In addition the unified messaging system provides many other features which further enhance the user s experience. These features include a unified inbox for storing various types of messages and a best messaging feature that among other things displays a selected set of viable options for the user based on the options that the user has already selected. Furthermore the best messaging feature can automatically select the appropriate mechanism e.g. protocol message type to perform a desired option delivering a message viewing a message etc. . Best messaging is further described below.

To further illustrate depicts a unified messaging system in accordance with one embodiment of the invention. As shown in several architectural levels that may be used to implement the unified messaging system . These architectural levels include unified messenger application programming interface API device software and device hardware . The unified messenger uses the API as an interface to device software which in turn interacts with a device hardware . Thus the unified messenger can perform various messaging tasks e.g. send receive messages via the device hardware . Moreover the unified messenger can perform messaging tasks using a variety of protocols e.g. SMS EMS WAP275 276 imode mail SMTP POP . In other words a single messaging application namely the unified messenger may be used to interact with various protocols and message types. Hence a user may be presented with a single unified messenger to perform various messaging tasks using different messaging protocols and or messaging types. In addition a unified inbox can be provided for the user. The unified inbox can be used to store various message types despite the protocols used to transmit them. It should be noted that the unified messaging system can behave as a client and use various protocols to interact with various messaging servers.

As shown in the messaging system also provides an abstract message and a message encoder decoder . The abstract message can be a conceptual representation of a generic message that may ultimately be mapped to a particular protocol and or message form a message type . The message encoder decoder can facilitate the mapping of the abstract message to a particular message type and vice versa.

Referring now to the abstract message is depicted in connection with the message encoder decoder . In addition a set of features are depicted. The set of features represents a set of options that may be initially displayed for a user e.g. send compose read etc. . It should be noted that these set of features can represent a set of abstract options that are available. In other words the set of features do not necessarily pertain to a particular message type. Also selection of an initial particular feature e.g. F1 results in storing one or more states e.g. state 1 in the abstract message . When a state is added to the abstract message the message encoder decoder determines based on the states currently in the abstract message whether a particular message type can be used. In addition an updated feature set may be presented based on this determination. In other words one or more options may be eliminated based on the states stored in the abstract message . As a result the user can be provided only with a set of viable options. Moreover the user does not need to select a particular message type. An appropriate message type can be selected and automatically generated by the message encoder decoder . Hence the user can interact with a set of abstract features without knowing about the specific message types. Options that may not be viable or preferred after a selection of another option can be automatically eliminated and a message type message protocol and or format can automatically be selected for the user.

It should be noted that the states I N may be organized for example in various categories composition layout e.g. attachment image inlining slides formatting e.g. text character set preferences e.g. priority recipient acknowledgment rules e.g. use MMS if more than two 2 SMS messages have been sent addressing message e.g. to alias Bob In general any messaging attribute may be presented with one or more states which may be used to provide the user with a set of viable options. In addition one or more states of the abstract message can be used to select a particular message type that is ultimately generated for the user.

As shown in when a feature F1 add slideshow is selected a composition state add slideshow can be added to the abstract message . This can for example result in selection of the mms slideshow message type. It should also be noted that abstract features may also be presented to the user. Referring to an abstract send feature can be presented to the user. The user then may select another abstract feature or option for example Bob which can be an email alias. In this example Bob is known only as an email address. As a result the abstract message will include a state email . Hence email is automatically selected to send the message.

As another example adding a slide would add a new slide layout to the contents of the message. The MMS protocol would understand this new layout and allow it so MMS remains as a viable option along with all the features of MMS. However the SMS protocol would not understand this new layout and would reject it so SMS would not remain a viable option. As another example on a different message adding a email address is allowed because SMTP MMS both enable that feature. Once the email address is added the MMS SMTP protocol would understand the address type and allow it so MMS remains as a viable option along with all the features of MMS. The SMS protocol would not understand the address type and would reject it so SMS would not remain a viable option.

In any case when it is determined that an abstract feature has been selected it is determined based on at least one selected abstract feature which message type should be used and or it is determined whether a set of other abstract features should be displayed for the user. Based on at least one selected feature it is determined whether one or more features should be displayed. Accordingly an updated set of features can be displayed for the user. Thereafter it can be determined whether another abstract feature has been selected . When it is determined that no more features should be displayed i.e. the message should be sent the abstract message is transformed to a particular message type so that it can be transmitted using an appropriate message protocol and message format. The unified messaging method ends following the transmission of the message.

To further illustrate depicts a message transmission method for generating and transmitting a message in accordance with one embodiment of the invention. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art other messaging operations e.g. receiving and displaying a message can be implemented in accordance with principles illustrated herein.

Initially an abstract message is generated . Next one or more abstract features or options are displayed for the user selection. When an abstract feature is selected one or more states are stored for the abstract message. Typically the one or more states have been pre defined for the selected feature. However these states may also be dynamically defined at runtime.

In any case after the one or more states have been stored in the abstract message it is determined whether the abstract message is compatible with a particular message type. Next it is determined whether the message type should be eliminated from further consideration. Accordingly if it is determined the abstract message type is not compatible with the message type that particular message type is eliminated from further consideration. Thereafter it is determined whether the message should be transmitted. If it is determined that the message should be transmitted one or more features that can be selected are determined and displayed for the user. It should be noted that these features are determined based on the remaining viable message types. In other words message types that have been eliminated are not considered when it is determined what options should be displayed. When it is determined that the message should be transmitted it is determined whether one or more message types can be used to transmit the message. If one or more message types may be used to transmit the message a preferred message type is selected . The preferred message type can for example be selected based on user preferences or one or more rules which may have been predefined. In any case the abstract message is transformed into a particular message type protocol and or format . The message is transmitted in accordance with a particular message protocol and or message format. The message transmission method ends following the transmission of the message.

The advantages of the invention are numerous. Different embodiments or implementations may have one or more of the following advantages. One advantage of the invention is that users can exchange messages on handheld devices without having to understand numerous message types and protocols. Another advantage of the invention is that less input is required from the user as undesirable options are eliminated. Yet another advantage is that the invention can be implemented to enforce rules or preferences for exchanging messages. Still another advantage of the invention is users may be provided with abstract features and a message type and a protocol can be automatically selected for the user.

The many features and advantages of the present invention are apparent from the written description and thus it is intended by the appended claims to cover all such features and advantages of the invention. Further since numerous modifications and changes will readily occur to those skilled in the art it is not desired to limit the invention to the exact construction and operation as illustrated and described. Hence all suitable modifications and equivalents may be resorted to as falling within the scope of the invention.

Assuming two message protocols of SMS MMS four 4 exemplary message types T1 SMS Text T2 SMS Rich EMS T3 MMS Slideshow SMIL and T4 MMS Multipart Inline may be constructed and listed in order of priority. Where Message type T1 represents a particular format i.e. text using a particular protocol e.g. the SMS protocol and so forth.

Further assuming a set of features for these exemplary message types F1 Add text F2 Add Slide F3 Add EMS Image F4 Add JPG Image F5 Send to Email F6 Send to Phone the features that each of the Message types can support can for example be as follows 

It should be noted that a Feature e.g. Add text F1 can be used with one or more message types e.g. T1 T2 T3 and T4 .

It should also be noted that the feature set can be much larger and not simply limited to types of content added but could also include formatting text or position messaging elements. In any case each of these message types has a set of features that the user is able to choose from while composing.

Following are some examples that demonstrate best messaging. However actual determination rules may vary between implementations.

In case A when a user selects adds a JPG image F4 in compose mode corresponding message types T3 and T4 are recognized. As a result feature F3 will be eliminated as an option because feature F3 is not supported for either message types T3 or T4. Next the user chooses an Address send option. As a result an email address feature F5 is automatically selected for the user because add a JPG option F4 has already been selected. Finally the JPG image is emailed as a type T3.

In case B when the user chooses send to a phone number F6 all message types will be available. However when add a slide F2 is selected all message types expect message type T3 are eliminated as an option.

