---

title: Web discovery method for assessing ingredients for regulatory compliance
abstract: A regulatory information retrieval system is disclosed. In one embodiment, the method comprises building ingredient data for manufacturing businesses. Then, those ingredients are compared with regulatory requirements. Relevant requirements are identified regarding permitted usage are extracted and converted to a guideline document. The guideline document can be viewed in a variety of ways, such as a detailed view, or an overview of repositories searched. The guidelines may then be converted to a file format that can be imported by other business applications.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08954415&OS=08954415&RS=08954415
owner: Ithos USA Inc.
number: 08954415
owner_city: Troy
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130708
---
The present patent document is a division of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 029 262 filed Feb. 17 2011 entitled AUTOMATED REGULATORY GUIDELINE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.

Businesses such as food manufacturers cosmetic companies and the like have a need to manage many ingredients and formulas for manufacture of their products. There are many regulations pertaining to most of these ingredients and the regulations vary in different countries. Keeping track of such regulations is a time consuming and costly activity for these businesses. Therefore it is desirable to have an improved regulatory information retrieval system to reduce the time and cost associated with these activities.

Embodiments of the present invention provide systems and method for identifying regulator and customer restrictions pertaining to various substances and the creation of file format guidelines for managing changes to those restrictions. There are various repositories available on the Internet such as from the US Food and Drug Administration FDA and similar organizations in other countries. Much of this information can be crawled by a search engine which retrieves this information and indexes it for fast retrieval. However there are other documents that are not in text form. These may be TIFF files graphic PDF files or other formats. In some cases these may undergo Optical Character Recognition OCR to convert the graphic images to text for storage.

In addition to retrieving relevant passages based on search terms embodiments of the present invention apply a thesaurus to search terms to further expand the search. This allows identification of relevant passages that may not use the exact words of the search term. For example acetylsalicylic acid also commonly is referred to as aspirin. Hence a search regarding regulations for acetylsalicylic acid may also retrieve information citing aspirin as relevant.

Embodiments of the present invention also apply emphasis to important words in the relevant passages. These important words may comprise regulatory words which help identify important rules and restrictions within the relevant passages.

The collection of relevant passages with emphasized words is used to comprise a guideline. The guideline is a form and the collection of an intelligent search result that provides a user with important information regarding a particular substance identifying the categories of use and the applicable restrictions. The user may optionally enter other parameters regarding his her use of the substance prior to the search. These parameters may include but are not limited to the type of application e.g. food cosmetic etc . . . the geographic location e.g. U.S. Canada Europe etc . . . and the intended age range of usage e.g. a children s medicine adult product etc . . . . These parameters help focus the search to retrieve relevant regulations e.g. for the proper countries applications such as cosmetics and age groups. For example a user planning to use an ingredient for a children s shampoo to be sold in Europe needs to refer to pertinent regulations for that situation.

Furthermore the guideline information can be formatted into a data format such as CSV comma separated value such that it may be imported into a third party program such as a formulation management system or a spreadsheet application. In this way the guideline information can be integrated into existing information systems.

In one embodiment the method comprises building ingredient data for manufacturing businesses. Then those ingredients are compared with regulatory requirements. Relevant requirements are identified regarding permitted usage which then are extracted and converted to a guideline document. The guideline document can be viewed in a variety of ways such as a detailed view or an overview of repositories searched. The guidelines may then be converted to a file format that can be imported by other business applications.

The guidelines may include a variety of metadata that is part of the file format e.g. CSV that is imported into a third party software package. This metadata may include but is not limited to 

This metadata may be entered manually or where possible automatically populated. For example when retrieving data from an FDA website it is known that the country of the regulation is the United States and the Author source of the regulation is the FDA.

Embodiments of the present invention also provide a method for generating viewable reports that display collected content on ingredient compliance. Fields are mapped to the guideline data structure so it can be fetched and displayed in these reports. A file can be exported summarizing this viewable report.

Embodiments of the present invention also provide a method for retrieving regulatory information. The method comprises indexing a plurality of regulatory corpuses thereby forming a plurality of full text searchable databases receiving a search query comprising at least one search term executing the search query on the plurality of full text searchable databases to identify a plurality of relevant passages emphasizing search terms within the plurality of relevant passages and emphasizing regulatory words within the plurality of relevant passages thereby forming emphasized relevant passages.

The content servers each comprise one or more databases. Each content server performs a search on the data in the databases using the search query that is communicated from the client device . The results of the search are then sent back to the backend search module which then sends the results to the client device . The content servers backend search module and client device are devices comprising a processor and non transitory computer storage which contains machine instructions that when executed by the processor perform methods disclosed herein. These devices are interconnected via communications network . In one embodiment communications network may include the Internet . Other embodiments may comprise multiple client devices such as client device . Hence embodiments of the present invention may support multiple simultaneous users. The content servers build internal searchable databases based on existing regulatory corpuses and . In practice there may be many such regulatory corpuses. In one embodiment the regulatory corpuses may include regulations available on the Internet from the US Food and Drug Administration and counterpart agencies internationally.

Optionally an embodiment may further comprise Optical Character Recognition OCR module . In some cases relevant documents from Internet sources may not be in a text searchable form and may comprise graphics files such as TIFF files or PDF files with no searchable text. In this case OCR module performs an OCR process to convert information to text such that it may be stored in one or more of the repositories .

Documents and passages within full text database that match the search query from the original terms or synonyms are input to the emphasis algorithm . The emphasis algorithm highlights important terms within the relevant passages and documents supplied by match algorithm thereby creating emphasized relevant passages. The emphasis algorithm highlights the terms and related synonyms from the search query . Emphasis algorithm may provide emphasis e.g. via boldface font colors underlining highlighting or a combination thereof for important words in a regulatory context. These regulatory words may include but are not limited to Shall must can may cannot allow permit require prohibit ban forbid.

Other words may also be included or omitted depending on the application. The emphasis algorithm may apply the regulatory words with a stemming process such that stemmed regular words which are various tenses of the words also get highlighted. For example with the regulatory word prohibit it is also possible to highlight stemmed regulatory words such as prohibiting and prohibited by applying a word stemming process. The output of the emphasis algorithm is an emphasized document database EDD that comprises the relevant documents and or passages from the full text database with the search terms synonyms and regulatory words emphasized. The EDD is then used as source material for generating guidelines for various substances. In one embodiment the EDD is converted into a CSV comma separated value file such that it may be imported into a formulation management software package such as Optiva. The fields within the CSV file may include but are not limited to an automatically generated reference number for the guideline packaging and labeling restrictions date of the regulation author of the regulation country of the regulation formulation restriction on composition percentages and shelf life.

Content repository which is EU Sweeteners is selected to be searched by selecting checkbox . To skip searching a repository it is unchecked as shown with checkbox . Since checkbox is not selected the corresponding repository FDA Cosmetic Labeling is not searched. In one embodiment repositories are grouped by geographical location. For example group comprises repositories covering North America. Select All button enables a user to select all the repositories in a selected group. Similarly Clear All button enables a user to clear all the repositories in a selected group. Open All Group button expands all groups to reveal the repositories contained within the groups. Similarly Close All Group button collapses all the groups.

User repositories section contains local databases acquired by the user. Select All button and Clear All button allow for easy selection or de selection of the user repositories and .

Once the user has selected the desired content repositories and user repositories the search can be initiated with the invocation of the Search button . The Clear button clears the search text entry field .

The number of repositories searched is displayed in field . The time the search took is shown in field . The number of search results is displayed in field . The number of duplicates in the repository list is shown in field .

As can now be appreciated embodiments of the present invention provide query broadcasting functionality to a wide variety of data sources such as searchable web sites and local network data repositories like Sharepoint. This provides an even greater level of flexibility and customizability of the overall system allowing a solution offering to best meet the needs of the customer and provide the most relevant data sources.

It will be recognized that the invention can take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment or an embodiment containing both hardware and software elements. Furthermore in some embodiments the invention can take the form of a computer program product accessible from a computer usable or computer readable medium providing program code for use by or in connection with a computing system or any instruction execution system to provide and facilitate the capabilities of the present invention. For the purposes of this description a computer usable or computer readable medium can be any apparatus that can contain store communicate propagate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device.

Although the description above contains many specific details these should not be construed as limiting the scope of the invention but merely as providing illustrations of some of the presently preferred embodiments of the present invention. The present invention may have various other embodiments. Furthermore while the form of the invention herein shown and described constitutes a preferred embodiment of the invention it is not intended to illustrate all possible forms thereof. It will also be understood that the words used are words of description rather than limitation and that various changes may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention disclosed. Thus the scope of the invention should be determined by the appended claims and their legal equivalents rather than solely by the examples given.

