---

title: Electroconductive sheet and touch panel
abstract: An electroconductive sheet and a touch panel having a first electroconductive section and a second electroconductive section, the second electroconductive section being disposed on the display-panel side. The first electroconductive section has a plurality of first electroconductive patterns arranged in the x-direction, a plurality of first large grids being respectively connected to the first electroconductive patterns. The second electroconductive section has a plurality of second electroconductive patterns arranged in the y-direction, a plurality of second large grids being respectively connected to the second electroconductive patterns. The area occupied by thin metal wires in the second electroconductive patterns is larger than the area occupied by thin metal wires in the first electroconductive patterns. The area occupied by thin metal wires in the second large grids is larger than the area occupied by thin metal wires in the first large grids.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09312048&OS=09312048&RS=09312048
owner: FUJIFILM Corporation
number: 09312048
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20130814
---
This application is a Continuation of International Application No. PCT JP2012 054097 filed on Feb. 21 2012 which was published under PCT Article 21 2 in Japanese which is based upon and claims the benefit of priority from Japanese Patent Application No. 2011 038703 filed on Feb. 24 2011 the contents all of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates to a conductive sheet and a touch panel for example suitable for use in a projected capacitive touch panel.

Transparent conductive films containing thin metal wires have been studied as disclosed in US Patent Application Publication No. 2004 0229028 International Publication No. 2006 001461 etc.

Touch panels have attracted much attention in recent years. Though the touch panels has currently been used mainly in small devices such as PDAs personal digital assistants and mobile phones it is expected to be used in large devices such as personal computer displays.

A conventional electrode for the touch panel is composed of ITO indium tin oxide and therefore has a high resistance. Thus when the conventional electrode is used in the large device in the above future trend the large sized touch panel has a low current transfer rate between the electrodes and thereby exhibits a low response speed a long time between finger contact and touch position detection .

A large number of lattices made of thin wires of metal thin metal wires can be arranged to form an electrode with a lowered surface resistance. Touch panels using the electrode of the thin metal wires are known from Japanese Laid Open Patent Publication No. 05 224818 U.S. Pat. No. 5 113 041 International Publication No. 1995 27334 US Patent Application Publication No. 2004 0239650 U.S. Pat. No. 7 202 859 International Publication No. 1997 18508 Japanese Laid Open Patent Publication No. 2003 099185 etc.

The touch panel electrode of the thin metal wires has problems with transparency and visibility because the thin metal wires are composed of an opaque material. In the case of using the electrode of the conductive sheet containing the thin metal wires on a display device the conductive sheet is required to have the following two preferred visibility characteristics. The first characteristic is when the display device is turned on to display an image the thin metal wires are hardly visible the conductive sheet exhibits a high visible light transmittance and noise such as moire is hardly generated due to light interference between a period of pixels in the display device such as a black matrix pattern in a liquid crystal display and a conductive pattern. The second characteristic is when the display device is turned off to show a black screen and is observed under an outside light such as a fluorescent light sunlight or LED light the thin metal wires are hardly visible.

In general the visibility can be improved by reducing the line width of the thin metal wires. However the electrode containing the thin metal wires with the reduced line width disadvantageously has an increased resistance which deteriorates the touch position detection sensitivity. Therefore it is necessary to optimize the shapes of the conductive pattern and the thin metal wire pattern.

In view of the above problems an object of the present invention is to provide a conductive sheet and a touch panel which can have an electrode containing a pattern of less visible thin metal wires a high transparency and an improved detection sensitivity.

 1 A conductive sheet according to a first aspect of the present invention is used on a display panel of a display device and comprises a first conductive part disposed closer to an input operation surface and a second conductive part disposed closer to the display panel. The first and second conductive parts overlap with each other. The first conductive part contains a plurality of first conductive patterns composed of thin metal wires and the first conductive patterns are arranged in one direction and each connected to a plurality of first electrodes. The second conductive part contains a plurality of second conductive patterns composed of the thin metal wires and the second conductive patterns are arranged in a direction perpendicular to the one direction of the first conductive patterns and each connected to a plurality of second electrodes. The occupation area of the second conductive patterns is larger than the occupation area of the first conductive patterns. The thin metal wires have a line width of 6 m or less and a line pitch of 200 m or more and 500 m or less or alternatively the thin metal wires have a line width of more than 6 m but at most 7 m and a line pitch of 300 m or more and 400 m or less.

In general the second conductive patterns which are located closer to the display device can act to reduce noise impact of an electromagnetic wave. Thus a skin current flows in a particular direction to block an electric field component of the electromagnetic wave and an eddy current flows in a particular direction to block a magnetic field component of the electromagnetic wave to reduce the noise impact of the electromagnetic wave. Particularly in the first aspect since the occupation area of the second conductive patterns closer to the display device is larger than that of the first conductive patterns the second conductive patterns can have a low surface resistance to be advantageous in the reduction of the noise impact of the electromagnetic wave.

Furthermore since the thin metal wires have a line width of 6 m or less and a line pitch of 200 m or more and 500 m or less or alternatively the thin metal wires have a line width of more than 6 m but at most 7 m and a line pitch of 300 m or more and 400 m or less the thin metal wires can be less visible ensuring a high transparency.

In addition in the case of using a self capacitance technology for detecting a finger touch position even in a case where the second electrodes are positioned at a longer distance from the finger touch position than the first electrodes the second electrodes can store a large amount of signal charge in the same manner as the first electrodes. The second electrodes can exhibit a detection sensitivity approximately equal to that of the first electrodes the burden of signal processing can be reduced and the detection accuracy can be improved. In the case of using a mutual capacitance technology for the finger touch position detection the second electrodes having the larger occupation area can be used as drive electrodes the first electrodes can be used as receiving electrodes and the receiving sensitivity of the first electrodes can be improved.

Consequently in the conductive sheet of the first aspect even in the case of using the patterns of the thin metal wires in the electrodes the thin metal wires are less visible and the conductive sheet can have a high transparency an improved S N ratio of detection signal an improved detection sensitivity and an improved detection accuracy.

 2 In the first aspect it is preferred that the thin metal wires have a line width of 5 m or less and a line pitch of 200 m or more and 400 m or less or alternatively the thin metal wires have a line width of more than 5 m but at most 7 m and a line pitch of 300 m or more and 400 m or less.

 3 Even in a case where the first conductive patterns partially overlap with the second conductive patterns to form a parasitic capacitance the parasitic capacitance can be lowered to prevent detection sensitivity deterioration by disposing therebetween a substrate having a thickness of 75 m or more and 350 m or less.

 4 In the first aspect it is preferred that when the first conductive patterns have an occupation area A1 and the second conductive patterns have an occupation area A2 the conductive sheet satisfies the condition of 1

 7 In the first aspect the first conductive part and or the second conductive part contain auxiliary electrodes composed of the thin metal wires the auxiliary electrodes are disposed between the first and second electrodes the second conductive part contains additional auxiliary electrodes composed of the thin metal wires and the additional auxiliary electrodes are disposed in positions corresponding to the first electrodes.

In this case the occupation area of the thin metal wires in the second conductive patterns can be significantly larger than that in the first conductive patterns and the second conductive patterns can more effectively act to reduce the noise impact of the electromagnetic wave and the like.

 8 In a case where the occupation area of the thin metal wires in the additional auxiliary electrodes is increased while maintaining uniform light transmittance in the first and second electrodes there is a possibility that the conductivity of the first electrodes is deteriorated. Therefore it is preferred that the occupation area of the thin metal wires in the additional auxiliary electrodes is preferably or less of the occupation area of the thin metal wires in the second electrodes.

 9 In the conductive sheet according to 7 the additional auxiliary electrodes which are composed of the thin metal wires and disposed in the positions corresponding to the first electrodes are combined with the first electrodes in the first conductive part to form lattice patterns. In this case the visibility can be improved.

 10 In the conductive sheet according to 7 the thin metal wires are arranged into a mesh shape in the first electrodes. In this case the conductivity of the first electrodes can be improved.

 11 In this case it is preferred that the second electrodes each contain a combination of a plurality of first lattices the first electrodes each contain a combination of a plurality of second lattices larger than the first lattices the second lattices each have a length component and the length of the length component is a real number multiple of a side length of the first lattice.

 12 In the conductive sheet according to 7 the thin metal wires in the additional auxiliary electrodes which are disposed in the positions corresponding to the first electrodes have a straight line shape.

 13 In this case from the viewpoint of improving the conductivity it is preferred that the second electrodes each contain a combination of a plurality of the first lattices and the length of the thin metal wire having the straight line shape in the additional auxiliary electrodes is a real number multiple of a side length of the first lattice.

 14 In the conductive sheet according to 7 the thin metal wires in the additional auxiliary electrodes which are disposed in the positions corresponding to the first electrodes may have a mesh shape.

 15 In this case the second electrodes may each contain a combination of a plurality of the first lattices the additional auxiliary electrodes may each contain a combination of a plurality of the second lattices larger than the first lattices the second lattices may each have a length component and the length of the length component may be a real number multiple of a side length of the first lattice.

 16 In the first aspect the conductive sheet may further comprise a substrate and the first and second conductive parts may be arranged facing each other with the substrate interposed therebetween.

 17 In this case the first conductive part may be formed on one main surface of the substrate and the second conductive part may be formed on the other main surface of the substrate.

 18 In the conductive sheet according to 7 the conductive sheet may further comprise a substrate the first and second conductive parts may be arranged facing each other with the substrate interposed therebetween the first and second electrodes may each have a mesh pattern the auxiliary patterns of the additional auxiliary electrodes composed of the thin metal wires may be disposed between the second electrodes in the positions corresponding to the first electrodes the second electrodes may be arranged adjacent to the first electrodes as viewed from above the first electrodes may overlap with the auxiliary patterns to form combined patterns and the combined patterns may each contain a combination of mesh shapes. In this case the visibility can be improved.

 19 In this case it is preferred that the second electrodes each contain a first large lattice containing a combination of a plurality of first small lattices the first electrodes each contain a second large lattice containing a combination of a plurality of second small lattices larger than the first small lattices the first large lattices in the combined patterns are arranged adjacent to the second large lattices the first large lattices overlap with the auxiliary patterns to form the combined patterns and the combined patterns each contain a combination of two or more first small lattices.

 20 A touch panel according to a second aspect of the present invention comprises a conductive sheet which is used on a display panel of a display device. The conductive sheet has a first conductive part disposed closer to an input operation surface and a second conductive part disposed closer to the display panel. The first and second conductive parts overlap with each other. The first conductive part contains a plurality of first conductive patterns composed of thin metal wires and the first conductive patterns are arranged in one direction and each connected to the plurality of first electrodes. The second conductive part contains a plurality of second conductive patterns composed of the thin metal wires and the second conductive patterns are arranged in a direction perpendicular to the one direction of the first conductive patterns and each connected to the plurality of second electrodes. An occupation area of the second conductive patterns is larger than an occupation area of the first conductive patterns. The thin metal wires have a line width of 6 m or less and a line pitch of 200 m or more and 500 m or less or alternatively the thin metal wires have a line width of more than 6 m but at most 7 m and a line pitch of 300 m or more and 400 m or less.

As described above the conductive sheet and the touch panel of the present invention can have the electrodes containing the patterns of less visible thin metal wires a high transparency and an improved detection sensitivity.

Several embodiments of the conductive sheet and the touch panel of the present invention will be described below with reference to . It should be noted that in this description a numeric range of A to B includes both the numeric values A and B as the lower limit and upper limit values.

A touch panel having a conductive sheet according to an embodiment of the present invention will be described below with reference to .

The touch panel has a sensor body and a control circuit such as an integrated circuit not shown . The sensor body contains a conductive sheet stack according to this embodiment and thereon a protective layer . The conductive sheet stack and the protective layer can be disposed on a display panel of a display device such as a liquid crystal display. As viewed from above the sensor body has a touch position sensing region corresponding to a display screen of the display panel and a terminal wiring region a so called frame corresponding to the periphery of the display panel .

As shown in the conductive sheet stack is provided by stacking a first conductive sheet A and a second conductive sheet B.

The first conductive sheet A has a first conductive part A formed on one main surface of a first transparent substrate A see . As shown in the first conductive part A contains two or more first conductive large lattices A first electrodes composed of thin metal wires see . The first large lattice A contains a combination of two or more small lattices . First auxiliary patterns A auxiliary electrodes composed of the thin metal wires are arranged around the first large lattices A and are not connected to the first large lattices A. First connections A composed of the thin metal wires are formed between the first large lattices A and each adjacent two of the first large lattices A are electrically connected by the first connection A. The first connection A contains one or more medium lattices to and the pitch of the medium lattices is n times larger than that of the small lattices in which n is a real number larger than 1 . The small lattice has a smallest square shape. For example the thin metal wires contain gold Au silver Ag or copper Cu . At least the first transparent substrate A has a thickness of 75 m or more and 350 m or less.

The side length of the first large lattice A is preferably 3 to 10 mm more preferably 4 to 6 mm. The side length of the small lattice in the first large lattice A is preferably 50 to 500 m further preferably 150 to 300 m.

The lower limit of the line width of the thin metal wire is preferably 1 m or more 3 m or more 4 m or more or 5 m or more and the upper limit is preferably 15 m or less 10 m or less 9 m or less or 8 m or less. When the line width is less than the lower limit the conductive sheet has an insufficient conductivity whereby the touch panel using the sheet has an insufficient detection sensitivity. On the other hand when the line width is more than the upper limit moire is significantly generated due to the conductive metal portion and the touch panel using the sheet has a poor visibility. When the line width is within the above range the moire generated due to the conductive metal portion is improved and the visibility is remarkably improved.

Two or more first large lattices A are arranged in one direction a first direction an x direction with the first connections A disposed therebetween to form one first conductive pattern A composed of the thin metal wires . Two or more first conductive patterns A are arranged in a y direction a second direction perpendicular to the x direction. An electrically isolated first insulation A is disposed between the adjacent first conductive patterns A.

The first conductive pattern A is not limited to the example using the first large lattices A. For example the first conductive pattern A may be such that a large number of the small lattices are arranged to form a strip shaped mesh pattern and a plurality of the strip shaped mesh patterns are arranged in parallel and are isolated from each other by insulations. For example two or more of strip shaped first conductive patterns A may each extend from a terminal in the x direction and may be arranged in the y direction.

As shown in four sides of the first large lattice A each have a straight line shape. Among the four sides the first side and the second side are positioned next to one corner unconnected to the adjacent first large lattice A and the third side and the fourth side are positioned next to the other corner unconnected to the adjacent first large lattice A. In other words the intersection of the straight lines of the first side and the second side corresponds to the one corner of the first large lattice A and the intersection of the straight lines of the third side and the fourth side corresponds to the other corner of the first large lattice A.

In the first connection A the four medium lattices the first medium lattice to the fourth medium lattice are arranged in a zigzag manner and each of the medium lattices has a size equal to the total of four small lattices . The first medium lattice is disposed at the intersection of the second side and the fourth side and forms an L shaped space in combination with one small lattice . The second medium lattice is disposed on one side of the first medium lattice and forms such a square space that four small lattices are arranged in a matrix and the central cross is removed. The third medium lattice is adjacent to one vertex of the first medium lattice and one side of the second medium lattice and has the same shape as the second medium lattice . The fourth medium lattice is disposed at the intersection of the third side and the first side is adjacent to one vertex of the second medium lattice and one side of the third medium lattice and forms an L shaped space in combination with one small lattice as well as the first medium lattice . When the small lattices have an arrangement pitch of P the medium lattices have an arrangement pitch of 2P.

The above described first auxiliary pattern A is formed around each of the four sides the first side to the fourth side of the first large lattice A. The first auxiliary pattern A is formed such that a part of the small lattice is removed to provide a remaining part and two or more remaining parts are arranged along the corresponding straight side. In the example of the remaining part is provided by removing one side from the small lattice and thus has a shape with two corners and one opening referred to simply as an approximately U shape and ten remaining parts are arranged such that the openings are opened in the direction away from the corresponding side of the first large lattice A. The arrangement pitch of the remaining parts is twice as large as the arrangement pitch P of the small lattices in the first large lattices A. For example the shortest distance between the straight line shape of the first side and the approximately U shape of the first auxiliary pattern A is approximately equal to the inside side length of the small lattice . This is true also for the second side to the fourth side

In the first insulation A a first insulation pattern A unconnected to the first large lattices A is formed. The first insulation pattern A has a first assembly pattern portion containing two or more small lattices arranged and three spaces to containing no small lattices .

Specifically the first assembly pattern portion contains a combination of four straight lines composed of a plurality of the small lattices two long straight lines and two short straight lines . Each of the straight lines is formed by arranging a plurality of the small lattices to connect the vertices of the small lattices . With respect to the adjacent two first large lattices A or two second large lattices B arranged with the first insulation A interposed therebetween the three spaces include the first space containing no small lattices surrounded by the first assembly pattern portion the second space containing no small lattices formed around the other corner of one first large lattice A and the third space containing no small lattices formed around the one corner of the other first large lattice A.

For example among the four straight lines each of the two long straight lines is formed by arranging seven small lattices to connect the vertices thereof. The small lattice in one end of one long straight line is positioned adjacent to the first auxiliary pattern A along the third side of the one first large lattice A at the same pitch around the other corner of the one first large lattice A and the small lattice in the other end of the one long straight line is positioned adjacent to the first auxiliary pattern A along the first side of the other first large lattice A at the same pitch around the one corner of the other first large lattice A. Similarly the small lattice in one end of the other long straight line is positioned adjacent to the first auxiliary pattern A along the fourth side of the one first large lattice A at the same pitch around the other corner of the one first large lattice A and the small lattice in the other end of the other long straight line is positioned adjacent to the first auxiliary pattern A along the second side of the other first large lattice A at the same pitch around the one corner of the other first large lattice A.

Among the two short straight lines one short straight line contains two small lattices connecting the second small lattice in the one long straight line from the one end and the second small lattice in the other long straight line from the one end. Similarly the other short straight line contains two small lattices connecting the second small lattice in the one long straight line from the other end and the second small lattice in the other long straight line from the other end.

When the small lattices have an arrangement pitch of P the first insulation A has a width of m P in which m is an integer of 1 or more . The width of the first insulation A is defined as the shortest distance between the adjacent first conductive patterns A i.e. the distance between the other corner of the one first large lattice A and the one corner of the other first large lattice A . Thus the first insulation pattern A has a maximum length of m P or less in the width direction of the first insulation A. The maximum length is the distance between a part in the one short straight line facing the other corner of the one first large lattice A and a part in the other short straight line facing the one corner of the other first large lattice A.

As described above in the first conductive sheet A the first conductive patterns A composed of the thin metal wires each contain two or more first large lattices A connected in series in the first direction the first large lattices A each contain a combination of two or more small lattices the first auxiliary patterns A composed of the thin metal wires are formed around the sides of the first large lattices A and are not connected to the first large lattices A the thin metal wires have a line width of 1 to 15 m and the small lattices have a side length of 50 to 500 m. Therefore the first conductive sheet A can exhibit a significantly lowered electrical resistance as compared with conventional structures using one ITO film for one electrode. Thus in a case where the first conductive sheet A is used in a projected capacitive touch panel or the like the response speed and the size of the touch panel can be easily increased.

In one end of the first conductive pattern A the first connection A is not formed on the open end of the first electrode A. In the other end of the first conductive pattern A the end of the first large lattice A is electrically connected to a first terminal wiring pattern composed of a thin metal wire by a first wire connection

As shown in in the first conductive sheet A used in the touch panel a large number of the above first conductive patterns A are arranged in the sensing region and a plurality of the first terminal wiring patterns composed of the thin metal wires extend from the first wire connections in the terminal wiring region .

In the example of the first conductive sheet A and the sensing region each have a rectangular shape as viewed from above. In the terminal wiring region a plurality of first terminals are arranged in the longitudinal center in the length direction of the periphery on one long side of the first conductive sheet A. The first wire connections are arranged in a straight line in the y direction along one long side of the sensing region a long side closest to the one long side of the first conductive sheet A . The first terminal wiring pattern extends from each first wire connection to the center of the one long side of the first conductive sheet A and is electrically connected to the corresponding first terminal . Thus the first terminal wiring patterns connected to each pair of corresponding first wire connections formed on the right and left of the one long side of the sensing region have approximately the same lengths. Of course the first terminals may be formed in a corner of the first conductive sheet A or the vicinity thereof. However in this case the length difference between the longest first terminal wiring pattern and the shortest first terminal wiring pattern is increased whereby the longest first terminal wiring pattern and the first terminal wiring patterns in the vicinity thereof are disadvantageously poor in the rate of transferring signal to the corresponding first conductive pattern A. Thus in this embodiment the first terminals are formed in the longitudinal center of the one long side of the first conductive sheet A whereby the local signal transfer rate deterioration is prevented to increase the response speed.

On the other hand as shown in the second conductive sheet B has a second conductive part B formed on one main surface of a second transparent substrate B see . The second conductive part B contains two or more second large lattices B second electrodes which are conductive and composed of the thin metal wires . The second large lattice B contains a combination of two or more small lattices . Second auxiliary patterns B auxiliary electrodes are arranged around the sides of the second large lattices B and are not connected to the second large lattices B. Second connections B composed of the thin metal wires are formed between the second large lattices B and each adjacent two of the second large lattices B are electrically connected by the second connection B. The second connection B contains one or more medium lattices to and the pitch of the medium lattices is n times larger than that of the small lattices in which n is a real number larger than 1 . The side length of the second large lattice B as well as the above first large lattice A is preferably 3 to 10 mm more preferably 4 to 6 mm.

Two or more second large lattices B are arranged in the y direction the second direction with the second connections B disposed therebetween to form one second conductive pattern B. Two or more second conductive patterns B are arranged in the x direction the first direction . An electrically isolated second insulation B is disposed between the adjacent second conductive patterns B.

Also the second conductive pattern B is not limited to the example using the second large lattices B. For example the second conductive pattern B may be such that a large number of the small lattices are arranged to form a strip shaped mesh pattern and a plurality of the strip shaped mesh patterns are arranged in parallel and are isolated from each other by insulations. For example two or more of strip shaped second conductive patterns B may each extend from a terminal in the y direction and may be arranged in the x direction.

As shown in the second large lattice B has an approximately octagonal shape unlike the first large lattice A. The second large lattice B has four short sides a first short side to a fourth short side and four long sides a first long side to a fourth long side . With respect to the second large lattices B arranged adjacent in the y direction the second connection B is formed between the first short side of one second large lattice B and the second short side of the other second large lattice B. With respect to the second large lattices B arranged adjacent in the x direction the second insulation B is formed between the third short side of one second large lattice B and the fourth short side of the other second large lattice B.

The four long sides of the second large lattice B each have a straight line shape. Among the four long sides the first long side and the second long side are adjacent to the third short side facing one second insulation B and the third long side and the fourth long side are adjacent to the fourth short side facing another second insulation B.

In the second connection B the four medium lattices the fifth medium lattice to the eighth medium lattice are arranged in a zigzag manner and each of the medium lattices has a size equal to the total of four small lattices . The fifth medium lattice is disposed on the first short side and forms an L shaped space in combination with one small lattice . The sixth medium lattice is disposed on one side of the fifth medium lattice and forms such a square space that four small lattices are arranged in a matrix and the central cross is removed. The seventh medium lattice is adjacent to one vertex of the fifth medium lattice and one side of the sixth medium lattice and has the same shape as the sixth medium lattice . The eighth medium lattice is disposed on the second short side is adjacent to one vertex of the sixth medium lattice and one side of the seventh medium lattice and forms an L shaped space in combination with one small lattice as well as the fifth medium lattice . When the small lattices have an arrangement pitch of P the medium lattices have an arrangement pitch of 2P.

The above described second auxiliary pattern B is formed around each of the four long sides of the second large lattice B the first long side to the fourth long side . The second auxiliary pattern B is formed such that a part of the small lattice is removed to provide a remaining part and two or more remaining parts are arranged along the corresponding side straight line shape . In the example of the remaining part is provided by removing one side from the small lattice and thus has an approximately U shape and ten remaining parts are arranged such that the openings are opened in the direction away from the corresponding long side of the second large lattice B. The arrangement pitch of the remaining parts is twice as large as the arrangement pitch P of the small lattices in the second large lattices B. For example the shortest distance between the straight line shape of the first long side and the approximately U shape of the second auxiliary pattern B is approximately equal to the inside side length of the small lattice . This is true also for the second long side to the fourth long side

In the second insulation B a second insulation pattern B unconnected to the second large lattices B is formed. The second insulation pattern B has a second assembly pattern portion containing two or more small lattices arranged a first bend pattern portion and a second bend pattern portion each containing two approximately U shapes and a fourth space containing no small lattices .

Specifically the second assembly pattern portion is formed by arranging a plurality of the small lattices in a matrix to connect the vertices of the small lattices . The number of the small lattices that can be placed in the first space of the first insulation pattern A in the first conductive pattern A shown in is for example 6.

The first bend pattern portion has the two approximately U shapes formed on one end of the second insulation pattern B between the intersection of the fourth short side and the third long side in one second large lattice B and the intersection of the third short side and the first long side in another second large lattice B . The ends of the two approximately U shapes are connected an angle formed by the sides at the ends being approximately 90 .

Similarly the second bend pattern portion has the two approximately U shapes formed on the other end of the second insulation pattern B between the intersection of the fourth short side and the fourth long side in the one second large lattice B and the intersection of the third short side and the second long side in the other second large lattice B . The ends of the two approximately U shapes are connected an angle formed by the sides at the ends being approximately 90 .

The fourth space containing no small lattices has a blank area in which the four straight lines of the first assembly pattern portion in the first insulation pattern A shown in can be placed.

When the small lattices have an arrangement pitch of P the second insulation B has a width of n P in which n is an integer of 1 or more . The width of the second insulation B is defined as the shortest distance between the adjacent second conductive patterns B i.e. the distance between the fourth short side of one second large lattice B and the third short side of the other second large lattice B . Thus the second insulation pattern B has a maximum length of n P or less preferably less than n P in the width direction of the second insulation B. The maximum length is the distance between a part facing the fourth short side of the one second large lattice B and a part facing the third short side of the other second large lattice B in the second assembly pattern portion

For example in each of one end of each alternate odd numbered second conductive pattern B and the other end of each even numbered second conductive pattern B the second connection B is not formed on the open end of the second electrode B. In each of the other end of each odd numbered second conductive pattern B and one end of each even numbered second conductive pattern B the end of the second electrode B is electrically connected to a second terminal wiring pattern composed of a thin metal wire by a second wire connection

As shown in in the second conductive sheet B of the touch panel a large number of the second conductive patterns B are arranged in the sensing region and a plurality of the second terminal wiring patterns extend from the second wire connections in the terminal wiring region .

As shown in in the terminal wiring region a plurality of second terminals are arranged in the longitudinal center in the length direction of the periphery on one long side of the second conductive sheet B. For example the odd numbered second wire connections are arranged in a straight line in the x direction along one short side of the sensing region a short side closest to one short side of the second conductive sheet B and the even numbered second wire connections are arranged in a straight line in the x direction along the other short side of the sensing region a short side closest to the other short side of the second conductive sheet B .

For example each odd numbered second conductive pattern B is connected to the corresponding odd numbered second wire connection and each even numbered second conductive pattern B is connected to the corresponding even numbered second wire connection . The second terminal wiring patterns extend from the odd numbered and even numbered second wire connections to the center of one long side of the second conductive sheet B and are each electrically connected to the corresponding second terminal . Thus for example the 1st and 2nd second terminal wiring patterns have approximately the same lengths and similarly the 2n 1 th and 2n th second terminal wiring patterns have approximately the same lengths n 1 2 3 . . . .

Of course the second terminals may be formed in a corner of the second conductive sheet B or the vicinity thereof. However in this case as described above the longest second terminal wiring pattern and the second terminal wiring patterns in the vicinity thereof are disadvantageously poor in the rate of transferring signal to the corresponding second conductive pattern B. Thus in this embodiment the second terminals are formed in the longitudinal center of the one long side of the second conductive sheet B whereby the local signal transfer rate deterioration is prevented to increase the response speed.

The first terminal wiring patterns may be arranged in the same manner as the above second terminal wiring patterns and the second terminal wiring patterns may be arranged in the same manner as the above first terminal wiring patterns

When the conductive sheet stack is used in a touch panel the protective layer is formed on the first conductive sheet A and the first terminal wiring patterns extending from the first conductive patterns A in the first conductive sheet A and the second terminal wiring patterns extending from the second conductive patterns B in the second conductive sheet B are connected to a scan control circuit or the like.

A self or mutual capacitance technology can be preferably used for detecting a touch position. In the self capacitance technology a voltage signal for the touch position detection is sequentially supplied to the first conductive patterns A and further a voltage signal for the touch position detection is sequentially supplied to the second conductive patterns B. When a finger comes into contact with or close to the upper surface of the protective layer the capacitance between the first conductive pattern A and the second conductive pattern B in the touch position and the GND ground is increased whereby signals from this first conductive pattern A and this second conductive pattern B have waveforms different from those of signals from the other conductive patterns. Thus the touch position is calculated by a control circuit based on the signals transmitted from the first conductive pattern A and the second conductive pattern B. On the other hand in the mutual capacitance technology for example a voltage signal for the touch position detection is sequentially supplied to the first conductive patterns A and the second conductive patterns B are sequentially subjected to sensing transmitted signal detection . When a finger comes into contact with or close to the upper surface of the protective layer the parallel stray capacitance of the finger is added to the parasitic capacitance between the first conductive pattern A and the second conductive pattern B in the touch position whereby a signal from this second conductive pattern B has a waveform different from those of signals from the other second conductive patterns B. Thus the touch position is calculated by a control circuit based on the order of the first conductive pattern A supplied with the voltage signal and the signal transmitted from the second conductive pattern B. Even when two fingers come into contact with or close to the upper surface of the protective layer simultaneously the touch positions can be detected by using the self or mutual capacitance technology. Conventional related detection circuits used in projected capacitive technologies are described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 582 955 4 686 332 4 733 222 5 374 787 5 543 588 and 7 030 860 US Patent Publication No. 2004 0155871 etc.

In this embodiment in the terminal wiring region the first terminals are formed in the longitudinal center of the periphery on the one long side of the first conductive sheet A and the second terminals are formed in the longitudinal center of the periphery on the one long side of the second conductive sheet B. Particularly in the example of the first terminals and the second terminals are close to each other and do not overlap with each other and the first terminal wiring patterns and the second terminal wiring patterns do not overlap with each other. For example the first terminal may partially overlap with the odd numbered second terminal wiring pattern

Thus the first terminals and the second terminals can be electrically connected to the control circuit by using a cable and two connectors a connector for the first terminals and a connector for the second terminals or one connector a complex connector for the first terminals and the second terminals .

Since the first terminal wiring patterns and the second terminal wiring patterns do not vertically overlap with each other a parasitic capacitance is reduced between the first terminal wiring patterns and the second terminal wiring patterns to prevent the response speed deterioration.

Since the first wire connections are arranged along the one long side of the sensing region and the second wire connections are arranged along the both short sides of the sensing region the area of the terminal wiring region can be reduced. Therefore the size of the display panel containing the touch panel can be easily reduced and the display screen can be made to seem larger. Also the operability of the touch panel can be improved.

The area of the terminal wiring region may be further reduced by reducing the distance between the adjacent first terminal wiring patterns or the adjacent second terminal wiring patterns . The distance is preferably 10 to 50 m in view of preventing migration.

Alternatively the area of the terminal wiring region may be reduced by arranging the second terminal wiring pattern between the adjacent first terminal wiring patterns in the view from above. However when the pattern is misaligned the first terminal wiring pattern may vertically overlap with the second terminal wiring pattern increasing the parasitic capacitance therebetween undesirably. This leads to deterioration of the response speed. Thus in the case of using such an arrangement the distance between the adjacent first terminal wiring patterns is preferably 50 m or more and 100 m or less.

As shown in first alignment marks and second alignment marks are preferably formed for example on the corners of the first conductive sheet A and the second conductive sheet B. The first alignment marks and the second alignment marks are used for positioning the sheets in the process of bonding the sheets. When the first conductive sheet A and the second conductive sheet B are bonded to obtain the conductive sheet stack the first alignment marks and the second alignment marks form composite alignment marks. The composite alignment marks may be used for positioning the conductive sheet stack in the process of attaching the conductive sheet stack to the display panel .

As shown in when the first conductive sheet A is stacked on the second conductive sheet B to form the conductive sheet stack the first connections A of the first conductive patterns A and the second connections B of the second conductive patterns B are arranged facing each other with the first transparent substrate A see interposed therebetween and the first insulations A of the first conductive patterns A and the second insulations B of the second conductive patterns B are arranged facing each other with the first transparent substrate A interposed therebetween. Though the first conductive patterns A and the second conductive patterns B are exaggeratingly shown by thick lines and thin lines respectively to clearly represent the positions thereof in the first conductive patterns A and the second conductive patterns B have the same line width.

When the stacked first conductive sheet A and second conductive sheet B are observed from above the spaces between the first large lattices A of the first conductive sheet A are filled with the second large lattices B of the second conductive sheet B. Thus the surface is covered with the large lattices. In this case the first auxiliary patterns A and the second auxiliary patterns B overlap with each other to form combined patterns auxiliary electrodes between the first large lattices A and the second large lattices B. The combined pattern has a width equal to or larger than the side length of the small lattice . The width of the combined pattern is defined as the shortest distance projected on the one main surface of the first transparent substrate A for example between the first side of the first large lattice A and the second long side facing the first side of the second large lattice B. In the example of the width of the combined pattern is twice as large as the side length of the small lattice . This is true also for the relations between the second side to the fourth side of the first large lattice A and the second long side to the fourth long side of the second large lattice B.

Thus the openings of the approximately U shapes in the first auxiliary patterns A along the first large lattices A are closed by the straight long sides of the second large lattices B and the bottoms of the approximately U shapes in the first auxiliary patterns A are connected by the bottoms of the approximately U shapes in the second auxiliary patterns B along the second large lattices B. Similarly the openings of the approximately U shapes in the second auxiliary patterns B along the second large lattices B are closed by the straight long sides of the first large lattices A and the bottoms of the approximately U shapes in the second auxiliary patterns B are connected by the bottoms of the approximately U shapes in the first auxiliary patterns A along the first large lattices A. As a result as viewed from above a plurality of the small lattices are arranged and the boundaries between the first large lattices A and the second large lattices B can hardly be found.

For example in the case of not forming the first auxiliary patterns A and the second auxiliary patterns B blank areas corresponding to the combined pattern width are formed whereby the edges of the first large lattices A and the second large lattices B are highly visible deteriorating the visibility. This problem may be solved by overlapping each side of the first large lattices A with the corresponding long side of the second large lattices B to prevent the formation of the blank area. However in a case where the stack position accuracy is slightly deteriorated the overlaps of the straight lines have large widths the straight lines are thickened whereby the boundaries between the first large lattices A and the second large lattices B are highly visible deteriorating the visibility.

In contrast in this embodiment the first auxiliary patterns A and the second auxiliary patterns B are stacked in the above manner whereby the boundaries between the first large lattices A and the second large lattices B are made less visible thereby improving the visibility.

In a case where each side of the first large lattices A is overlapped with the corresponding long side of the second large lattices B to prevent the formation of the blank area as described above the first long side to the fourth long side of the second large lattices B are positioned right under the first side to the fourth side of the first large lattices A. In this case all of the first side to the fourth side and the first long side to the fourth long side function as conductive portions so that a parasitic capacitance is formed between the side of the first large lattice A and the long side of the second large lattice B and the parasitic capacitance acts as a noise on charge information to significantly deteriorate the S N ratio. Furthermore since the parasitic capacitance are formed between each pair of the first large lattice A and the second large lattice B a large number of the parasitic capacitances are connected in parallel in the first conductive patterns A and the second conductive patterns B resulting in increase of the CR time constant. When the CR time constant is increased there is a possibility that the waveform rise time of the voltage signal supplied to the first conductive pattern A and the second conductive pattern B is increased and an electric field for the position detection is hardly generated in a predetermined scan time. In addition there is a possibility that the waveform rise or fall time of the signal transmitted from each of the first conductive patterns A and the second conductive patterns B is increased and the waveform change of the transmitted signal cannot be detected in a predetermined scan time. This leads to detection accuracy deterioration and response speed deterioration. Thus in this case the detection accuracy and the response speed can be improved only by reducing the number of the first large lattices A and the second large lattices B lowering the resolution or by reducing the size of the display screen and the conductive sheet stack cannot be used in a large screen such as a B sized A4 sized or larger screen.

In contrast in this embodiment as shown in the projected distance Lf between the side of the first large lattice A and the long side of the second large lattice B is approximately twice as large as the side length of the small lattice . Therefore only a small parasitic capacitance is formed between the first large lattice A and the second large lattice B. As a result the CR time constant can be reduced to improve the detection accuracy and the response speed. In the combined pattern each corner of the first auxiliary pattern A may overlap with each corner of the second auxiliary pattern B. However this overlap does not result in increase of the parasitic capacitance between the first large lattice A and the second large lattice B because the first auxiliary pattern A is unconnected with and electrically isolated from the first large lattice A and the second auxiliary pattern B is unconnected with and electrically isolated from the second large lattice B.

It is preferred that the optimum value of the projected distance Lf is appropriately determined depending not on the sizes of the first large lattices A and the second large lattices B but on the sizes the line widths and the side lengths of the small lattices in the first large lattices A and the second large lattices B. When the small lattices have an excessively large size as compared with the sizes of the first large lattices A and the second large lattices B the conductive sheet stack may have a high light transmittance but the dynamic range of the transmitted signal may be reduced causing deterioration in detection sensitivity. On the other hand when the small lattices have an excessively small size the conductive sheet stack may have a high detection sensitivity but the light transmittance may be deteriorated under the restriction of line width reduction.

In a case where the small lattices have a line width of 1 to 9 m the optimum value of the projected distance Lf the optimum distance is preferably 100 to 400 m more preferably 200 to 300 m. In a case where the small lattices have a smaller line width the optimum distance can be further reduced. However in this case the electrical resistance may be increased and the CR time constant may be increased even under a small parasitic capacitance resulting in deterioration in the detection sensitivity and the response speed. Thus the line width of the small lattice is preferably within the above range.

For example the sizes of the first large lattices A the second large lattices B and the small lattices are determined based on the size of the display panel or the size and touch position detection resolution drive pulse period or the like of the sensing region and the optimum distance between the first large lattice A and the second large lattice B is obtained based on the line width of the small lattice .

When the overlap of the first connection A and the second connection B is observed from above the connection point of the fifth medium lattice and the seventh medium lattice in the second connection B is positioned approximately at the center of the second medium lattice along the first large lattice A the connection point of the sixth medium lattice and the eighth medium lattice in the second connection B is positioned approximately at the center of the third medium lattice along the first large lattice A and the first medium lattice to the eighth medium lattice form a plurality of the small lattices in combination. Therefore the small lattices are formed by the combination of the first connections A and the second connections B in the overlaps thereof. Thus formed small lattices cannot be distinguished from the surrounding small lattices in the first large lattices A and the second large lattices B so that the visibility is improved.

In the first conductive pattern A and the second conductive pattern B the first connection A and the second connection B overlap with each other. Several points of the thin metal wires in the first connection A overlap with several points of the thin metal wires in the second connection B to form a parasitic capacitance. Thus only several points of the medium lattices which are larger than the small lattices overlap with each other. Therefore the thin metal wires are overlapped with each other only at the several points and the first transparent substrate A has a thickness of 75 m or more and 350 m or less so that only a small parasitic capacitance is formed between the first connection A and the second connection B.

When the overlap of the first insulation pattern A of the first insulation A and the second insulation pattern B of the second insulation B is observed from above the first assembly pattern portion of the first insulation pattern A is arranged facing the fourth space of the second insulation pattern B and the first space of the first insulation pattern A is arranged facing the second assembly pattern portion of the second insulation pattern B. Furthermore the second space of the first insulation pattern A is arranged facing the first bend pattern portion of the second insulation pattern B and the third space of the first insulation pattern A is arranged facing the second bend pattern portion of the second insulation pattern B. In this case as viewed from above the openings of the first bend pattern portion are closed by the straight line shapes of the third side and the fourth side around the other corner of the first large lattice A and the openings of the second bend pattern portion are closed by the straight line shapes of the first side and the second side around the one corner of the first large lattice A. Therefore the first insulation patterns A and the second insulation patterns B form a plurality of the small lattices in combination. Thus formed small lattices cannot be distinguished from the surrounding small lattices in the first large lattices A and the second large lattices B so that the visibility is improved.

Consequently when the conductive sheet stack is used in the projected capacitive touch panel or the like the response speed and the size of the touch panel can be easily increased.

Furthermore the combination of the first auxiliary patterns A formed around the first large lattices A in the first conductive sheet A and the second auxiliary patterns B formed around the second large lattices B in the second conductive sheet B the combination of the first connections A and the second connections B and the combination of the first insulation patterns A and the second insulation patterns B form a plurality of the small lattices . Therefore the boundaries between the first large lattices A of the first conductive sheet A and the second large lattices B of the second conductive sheet B can be made less visible defects such as the local line thickening can be prevented and the overall visibility can be improved.

In addition the CR time constant of a large number of the first conductive patterns A and the second conductive patterns B can be significantly reduced whereby the response speed can be increased and the position detection can be readily carried out in an operation time a scan time . Thus the screen sizes not the thickness but the length and width of the touch panel can be easily increased.

In the conductive sheet stack the occupation area of the thin metal wires in the second conductive patterns B is larger than that in the first conductive patterns A and thus the occupation area of the thin metal wires in the second large lattices B the second electrodes is larger than that in the first large lattices A the first electrodes .

In general the second conductive patterns B which are located closer to the display device can act to reduce noise impact of an electromagnetic wave. Thus a skin current flows in a particular direction to block an electric field component of the electromagnetic wave and an eddy current flows in a particular direction to block a magnetic field component of the electromagnetic wave to reduce the noise impact of the electromagnetic wave. In the conductive sheet stack since the occupation area of the thin metal wires in the second conductive patterns B which are located closer to the display device is larger than that in the first conductive patterns A the second conductive patterns B can have a low surface resistance of 70 ohm sq or less. Consequently the conductive sheet stack is advantageous in the reduction of the noise impact of the electromagnetic wave.

The occupation area of the thin metal wires in the second large lattices B is larger than that in the first large lattices A. Therefore in the case of using the self capacitance technology for the finger touch position detection though the second large lattices B are positioned at a longer distance from the touch position than the first large lattices A the second large lattices B can store a large amount of signal charge in the same manner as the first large lattices A and the second large lattices B can exhibit a detection sensitivity approximately equal to that of the first large lattices A. Thus the burden of signal processing can be reduced and the detection accuracy can be improved. In the case of using the mutual capacitance technology for the finger touch position detection the second large lattices B having the larger occupation area of the thin metal wires can be used as drive electrodes the first large lattices A can be used as receiving electrodes and the first large lattices A can exhibit a high receiving sensitivity.

Consequently even in the case of using the patterns of the thin metal wires in the electrodes the conductive sheet stack can have a high transparency an improved S N ratio of the detection signal an improved detection sensitivity and an improved detection accuracy. Furthermore even in a case where the first conductive patterns A partially overlap with the second conductive patterns B to form a parasitic capacitance since the first transparent substrate A has a thickness of 75 to 350 m the increase of the parasitic capacitance can be prevented and the reduction of the detection sensitivity can be prevented.

When the thin metal wires in the first conductive patterns A have an occupation area A1 and the thin metal wires in the second conductive patterns B have an occupation area A2 the conductive sheet stack preferably satisfies the condition of 1

When the thin metal wires in the first large lattices A have an occupation area a and the thin metal wires in the second large lattices B have an occupation area a the conductive sheet stack preferably satisfies the condition of 1

Though the first large lattice A has a tetragonal shape shown in and the second large lattice B has an octagonal shape shown in in the above example the shapes of the first large lattice A and the second large lattice B are not limited to the example. Also the sizes of the first large lattice A and the second large lattice B are not limited as long as they can satisfactorily detect the touch position.

Though the small lattice has a square shape in the above example it may have another polygonal shape. Each side of the small lattice may have a straight line shape a curved shape or an arc shape. When the small lattice has an arc shaped side for example two opposite sides may have an outwardly protruding arc shape and the other two opposite sides may have an inwardly protruding arc shape. Alternatively each side may have a wavy shape containing outwardly protruding arcs and inwardly protruding arcs continuously. Of course each side may have a sine curve shape.

Though the arrangement pitch of the medium lattices in the first connections A and the second connections B is twice larger than the arrangement pitch P of the small lattices in the above first conductive sheet A and second conductive sheet B it may be appropriately selected depending on the number of the medium lattices . For example the arrangement pitch of the medium lattices may be 1.5 or 3 times larger than the arrangement pitch P. When the arrangement pitch of the medium lattices is excessively small or large it may be difficult to arrange the first large lattices A and the second large lattices B resulting in poor appearance. Thus the arrangement pitch of the medium lattices is preferably 1 to 10 times more preferably 1 to 5 times larger than the arrangement pitch P of the small lattices .

Also the sizes of the small lattices including the side length and the diagonal line length the number of the small lattices in the first large lattice A and the number of the small lattices in the second large lattice B may be appropriately selected depending on the size and the resolution the line number of the touch panel .

Several variant examples of the first conductive part A and the second conductive part B will be described below with reference to .

As shown in a first conductive part A according to a first variant example contains two or more first conductive patterns A and first auxiliary patterns A. The first conductive patterns A extend in the first direction the x direction are arranged in the second direction the y direction each contain a large number of the small lattices and are composed of the thin metal wires . The first auxiliary patterns A are arranged around the first conductive patterns A and are composed of the thin metal wires .

The first conductive pattern A contains two or more first large lattices A. The first large lattices A are connected in series in the first direction the x direction and each contain a combination of two or more small lattices . The above first auxiliary pattern A is formed around a side of the first large lattice A and is not connected to the first large lattice A.

First connections A composed of the thin metal wires are formed between the first large lattices A and each adjacent two of the first large lattices A are electrically connected by the first connection A. The first connection A contains a medium lattice and the size of the medium lattice corresponds to the total size of p small lattices in which p is a real number larger than 1 arranged in a third direction an m direction . A first absent portion A a portion provided by removing one side from the small lattice is formed between the medium lattice and a side of the first large lattice A extending along a fourth direction an n direction . The angle between the third direction and the fourth direction may be appropriately selected within a range of 60 to 120 .

An electrically isolated first insulation A is disposed between the adjacent first conductive patterns A.

The first auxiliary pattern A contains a plurality of first auxiliary wires A having an axis direction parallel to the fourth direction arranged along the side of the first large lattice A parallel to the third direction the m direction a plurality of first auxiliary wires A having an axis direction parallel to the third direction arranged along the side of the first large lattice A parallel to the fourth direction and two L shaped patterns A arranged facing each other. Each of the L shaped patterns A is formed by combining two first auxiliary wires A into an L shape in the first insulation A. The first auxiliary wires A and the L shaped patterns A may have a smaller length in the longitudinal direction and thus a dot shape.

On the other hand as shown in a second conductive part B according to the example contains two or more second conductive patterns B and second auxiliary patterns B. The second conductive patterns B extend in the second direction the y direction are arranged in the first direction the x direction perpendicular to the second direction each contain a large number of the small lattices and are composed of the thin metal wires . The second auxiliary patterns B are arranged around the second conductive patterns B and are composed of the thin metal wires .

The second conductive pattern B contains two or more second large lattices B. The second large lattices B are connected in series in the second direction and each contain a combination of two or more small lattices . The above second auxiliary pattern B is formed around a side of the second large lattice B and is not connected to the second large lattice B.

As shown in second connections B composed of the thin metal wires are formed between the second large lattices B and each adjacent two of the second large lattices B are electrically connected by the second connection B. The second connection B contains a medium lattice and the size of the medium lattice corresponds to the total size of p small lattices in which p is a real number larger than 1 arranged in the fourth direction the n direction . A second absent portion B a portion provided by removing one side from the small lattice is formed between the medium lattice and a side of the second large lattice B extending along the third direction the m direction . In the example of the size of the medium lattice corresponds to the total size of three small lattices arranged in the fourth direction. Further the second conductive part B contains third auxiliary patterns C composed of the thin metal wires additional auxiliary electrodes in blank areas light transmitting areas between the second large lattices B. The blank area has a size approximately equal to the first large lattice A.

An electrically isolated second insulation B is disposed between the adjacent second conductive patterns B.

The second auxiliary pattern B contains a plurality of second auxiliary wires B having an axis direction parallel to the fourth direction arranged along the side of the second large lattice B parallel to the third direction a plurality of second auxiliary wires B having an axis direction parallel to the third direction arranged along the side of the second large lattice B parallel to the fourth direction and two L shaped patterns B arranged facing each other. Each of the L shaped patterns B is formed by combining two second auxiliary wires B into an L shape in the second insulation B. The second auxiliary wires B and the L shaped patterns B may have a smaller length in the longitudinal direction and thus a dot shape.

The third auxiliary pattern C contains the third auxiliary wire C having an axis direction parallel to the third direction and or the third auxiliary wire C having an axis direction parallel to the fourth direction. Of course the third auxiliary pattern C may contain an L shaped pattern formed by combining two third auxiliary wires C into an L shape. The third auxiliary wires C and the L shaped patterns may have a smaller length in the longitudinal direction and thus a dot shape.

As shown in in the first large lattices A of the first conductive part A absent patterns blank patterns containing no thin metal wires are formed in positions corresponding to the third auxiliary patterns C in the second conductive part B see . When the first conductive sheet A is stacked on the second conductive sheet B the blank area in the second large lattice B overlaps with the first large lattice A as hereinafter described. The blank area has the third auxiliary pattern C and the first large lattice A has the absent pattern corresponding to the third auxiliary pattern C in the position corresponding to the overlap. The absent pattern has an absent portion provided by removing the thin metal wire and the size of the absent portion corresponds to that of the third auxiliary wire C in the third auxiliary pattern C. Thus the absent portion having a size approximately equal to that of the third auxiliary wire C is formed in the position corresponding to the overlap of the third auxiliary wire C. Of course in a case where the third auxiliary pattern C contains the L shaped pattern another absent portion having a size approximately equal to that of the L shaped pattern is formed in the position corresponding to the overlap of the L shaped pattern.

The small lattices in the first large lattice A include first small lattices having sizes equal to those of the small lattices in the second large lattice B and second small lattices having sizes larger than those of the first small lattices . In the second small lattice has a first shape formed by arranging two first small lattices in the third direction or a second shape formed by arranging two first small lattices in the fourth direction. The second small lattice is not limited to the shapes. The second small lattice has a length component such as a side which is s times longer than the side length of the first small lattice in which s is a real number larger than 1 . For example the length component may be 1.5 2.5 or 3 times longer than the side length of the first small lattice . As well as the second small lattice also the third auxiliary wire C in the third auxiliary pattern C may be s times longer than the side length of the first small lattice in which s is a real number larger than 1 .

The line width of each of the first auxiliary patterns A the first auxiliary wires A the second auxiliary patterns B the second auxiliary wires B and the third auxiliary patterns C the third auxiliary wires C may be 30 m or less and may be equal to or different from those of the first conductive patterns A and the second conductive patterns B. It is preferred that the first conductive patterns A the second conductive patterns B the first auxiliary patterns A the second auxiliary patterns B and the third auxiliary patterns C have the same line width.

For example as shown in when the first conductive sheet A is stacked on the second conductive sheet B to form the conductive sheet stack the first conductive patterns A and the second conductive patterns B are crossed. Specifically the first connections A of the first conductive patterns A and the second connections B of the second conductive patterns B are arranged facing each other with the first transparent substrate A see interposed therebetween and also the first insulations A of the first conductive part A and the second insulations B of the second conductive part B are arranged facing each other with the first transparent substrate A interposed therebetween.

As shown in when the conductive sheet stack is observed from above the spaces between the first large lattices A of the first conductive sheet A are filled with the second large lattices B of the second conductive sheet B. In this case the first auxiliary patterns A and the second auxiliary patterns B overlap with each other to form first combined patterns A auxiliary electrodes between the first large lattices A and the second large lattices B and the third auxiliary patterns C the additional auxiliary electrodes formed in the blank areas between the second large lattices B overlap with the absent patterns in the first large lattices A to form second combined patterns B.

As shown in in the first combined pattern A an axis A of the first auxiliary wire A corresponds to an axis B of the second auxiliary wire B the first auxiliary wire A does not overlap with the second auxiliary wire B and an end of the first auxiliary wire A corresponds to an end of the second auxiliary wire B whereby one side of the small lattice is formed. Therefore the first combined pattern A contains a combination of two or more small lattices . In the second combined pattern B the absent portion of the absent pattern in the first large lattice A is compensated by the third auxiliary wire C in the third auxiliary pattern C. Therefore the second combined pattern B contains a combination of two or more small lattices . Consequently as shown in when the conductive sheet stack is observed from above the entire surface is covered with a large number of the small lattices and the boundaries between the first large lattices A and the second large lattices B can hardly be found.

In a case where the absent patterns are not formed in the first large lattice A the light transmittance difference between a portion corresponding to the first large lattice A and a portion corresponding to the second large lattice B is increased in the conductive sheet stack deteriorating the visibility making the first large lattice A or the second large lattice B highly visible . Thus in this embodiment the absent patterns are formed in the first large lattice A whereby the portions corresponding to the first large lattice A and the second large lattice B have uniform light transmittance to improve the visibility.

Though in the absent pattern of the first large lattice A the absent portion having a size approximately equal to that of the third auxiliary wire C is formed in the position corresponding to the overlap of the third auxiliary wire C in the above example the absent portion is not limited to this example. The absent portion may be formed in a position different from the position corresponding to the overlap of the third auxiliary wire C as long as the portions corresponding to the first large lattice A and the second large lattice B have uniform light transmittance.

In a case where the number of the third auxiliary wires C is increased in the third auxiliary pattern C it is necessary to increase the number of the absent portions in the first large lattice A in view of achieving the above uniform light transmittance. In this case there is a possibility that the conductivity of the first large lattice A is deteriorated. Accordingly the occupation area of the thin metal wires in the third auxiliary patterns C is preferably or less further preferably or less of the occupation area of the thin metal wires in the second large lattices B.

When the thin metal wires in the first conductive patterns A have an occupation area A1 and the thin metal wires in the second conductive patterns B have an occupation area A2 also the conductive sheet stack of the first variant example preferably satisfies the condition of 1

When the thin metal wires in the first large lattices A have an occupation area a and the thin metal wires in the second large lattices B have an occupation area a2 also the conductive sheet stack of the first variant example preferably satisfies the condition of 1

In the first variant example the third auxiliary patterns C are formed in the blank areas between the second large lattices B in the second conductive patterns B. Therefore the occupation area of the thin metal wires in the second conductive patterns B can be significantly larger than that in the first conductive patterns A and the second conductive patterns B can more effectively act to reduce the noise impact of the electromagnetic wave from the display device or the like.

Consequently even in the case of using the patterns of the thin metal wires in the electrodes the conductive sheet stack can have a high transparency an improved S N ratio of the detection signal an improved detection sensitivity and an improved detection accuracy.

As shown in a first conductive part A according to a second variant example contains two or more first large lattices A connected in series in the first direction the x direction . First auxiliary patterns A are formed around the sides of the first large lattices A and are not connected to the first large lattices A. First connections A composed of the thin metal wires are formed between the first large lattices A and each adjacent two of the first large lattices A are electrically connected by the first connection A.

The first connection A contains a first medium lattice and a second medium lattice . The size of the first medium lattice corresponds to the total size of p first small lattices in which p is a real number larger than 1 arranged in the third direction the m direction . The size of the second medium lattice corresponds to the total size of q first small lattices in which q is a real number larger than 1 arranged in the third direction the m direction and r first small lattices in which r is a real number larger than 1 arranged in the fourth direction the n direction . The second medium lattice is crossed with the first medium lattice . In the example of the size of the first medium lattice corresponds to the total size of seven first small lattices arranged in the third direction and the second medium lattice is such that three first small lattices are arranged in the third direction and five first small lattices are arranged in the fourth direction. The angle between the third direction and the fourth direction may be appropriately selected within a range of 60 to 120 .

On the other hand as shown in a second conductive part B according to the second variant example contains two or more second large lattices B connected in series in the second direction the y direction . The second large lattices B each contain a combination of two or more small lattices . Second auxiliary patterns B are formed around the sides of the second large lattices B and are not connected to the second large lattices B. The second auxiliary patterns B contain a plurality of second auxiliary wires B L shaped patterns and U and E shaped patterns provided by combining the second auxiliary wire B and the thin metal wire corresponding to one side of the small lattice .

Second connections B composed of the thin metal wires are formed between the second large lattices B and each adjacent two of the second large lattices B are electrically connected by the second connection B. The second connection B contains a first medium lattice and a second medium lattice . The size of the first medium lattice corresponds to the total size of p small lattices in which p is a real number larger than 1 arranged in the fourth direction the n direction . The size of the second medium lattice corresponds to the total size of q small lattices in which q is a real number larger than 1 arranged in the fourth direction the n direction and r small lattices in which r is a real number larger than 1 arranged in the third direction the m direction . The second medium lattice is crossed with the first medium lattice . In the example of the size of the first medium lattice corresponds to the total size of seven first small lattices arranged in the fourth direction and the second medium lattice is arranged such that three first small lattices are arranged in the fourth direction and five first small lattices are arranged in the third direction. Furthermore in a second conductive pattern B third auxiliary patterns C composed of the thin metal wires are formed in blank areas light transmitting areas between the second large lattices B.

In the third auxiliary pattern C formed in the blank area between the second large lattices B third auxiliary wires C having an axis direction parallel to the third direction the m direction and third auxiliary wires C having an axis direction parallel to the fourth direction the n direction are alternately arranged and the third auxiliary wires C are electrically isolated from each other e.g. arranged at a distance corresponding to the side length of the small lattice .

As shown in in the first large lattices A absent patterns blank patterns containing no thin metal wires are formed in positions corresponding to the third auxiliary patterns C adjacent to the second conductive patterns B see . The absent pattern has an absent portion corresponding to the third auxiliary wire C in the third auxiliary pattern C provided by removing the thin metal wire . Thus the absent portion having a size approximately equal to that of the third auxiliary wire C is formed in the position corresponding to the overlap of the third auxiliary wire C.

The first large lattice A is mainly composed of a plurality of second small lattices having sizes larger than those of the first small lattices . In the second small lattice has a first shape formed by arranging two first small lattices in the fourth direction or a second shape formed by arranging two first small lattices in the third direction. The second small lattice is not limited to the shapes. The second small lattice has a length component such as a side which is s times longer than the side length of the first small lattice in which s is a real number larger than 1 . For example the length component may be 1.5 2.5 or 3 times longer than the side length of the first small lattice . As well as the second small lattices also the third auxiliary wire C in the third auxiliary pattern C may be s times longer than the side length of the first small lattice in which s is a real number larger than 1 .

In the first large lattice A first combined shapes which each contain a combination of two first shapes arranged in the third direction and second combined shapes which each contain a combination of two second shapes arranged in the fourth direction are alternately arranged. When the first conductive sheet A is stacked on the second conductive sheet B the thin metal wire between the adjacent first shapes extending in the fourth direction intersects with the third auxiliary wire C extending in the third direction and the thin metal wire between the adjacent second shapes extending in the third direction intersects with the third auxiliary wire C extending in the fourth direction.

Therefore as shown in the first auxiliary patterns A and the second auxiliary patterns B overlap with each other to form first combined patterns A and each first combined pattern A contains a combination of two or more small lattices .

Furthermore the third auxiliary patterns C formed in the blank areas between the second large lattices B overlap with the absent patterns in the first large lattices A to form second combined patterns B. In the second combined pattern B the absent portion of the absent pattern in the first large lattice A is compensated by the third auxiliary wire C in the third auxiliary pattern C. Therefore the second combined pattern B contains a combination of two or more small lattices . Consequently as shown in when the conductive sheet stack is observed from above the entire surface is covered with a large number of the small lattices and the boundaries between the first large lattices A and the second large lattices B can hardly be found.

A first conductive part A and a second conductive part B according to a third variant example have approximately the same structures as those of the second variant example but are different in the patterns of the first large lattices A and the third auxiliary patterns C in the blank areas between the second large lattices B as described below.

The third auxiliary pattern C will be described below. As shown in in the third auxiliary pattern C a plurality of third auxiliary wires C which have an axis direction parallel to the third direction the m direction and are arranged in the fourth direction intersect with a plurality of third auxiliary wires C which have an axis direction parallel to the fourth direction the n direction and are arranged in the third direction. Thus the third auxiliary pattern C contains a combination of a plurality of second small lattices and the second small lattice is sized such that two first small lattices are arranged in the third direction and two first small lattices are arranged in the fourth direction.

As shown in absent patterns corresponding to the third auxiliary patterns C see are formed in the first large lattices A. The absent pattern has an absent portion in a position facing an intersection of the third auxiliary wires C in the third auxiliary pattern C and the absent portion has a size approximately equal to that of the second small lattice . Thus the first large lattice A contains a combination of the second small lattices and the size of the second small lattice in the first large lattice A is equal to that of the second small lattice in the third auxiliary pattern C. The position relation between the first large lattice A and the third auxiliary pattern C is such that the second small lattices in the first large lattice A are displaced in each of the third and fourth directions by a distance corresponding to the side length of the first small lattice from the second small lattices in the third auxiliary pattern C.

Therefore also in the third variant example as shown in the first auxiliary patterns A and the second auxiliary patterns B overlap with each other to form the first combined patterns A and each first combined pattern A contains a combination of two or more small lattices .

Furthermore the third auxiliary patterns C formed in the blank areas between the second large lattices B overlap with the absent patterns in the first large lattices A to form second combined patterns B. In the second combined pattern B the absent portion of the absent pattern in the first large lattice A is compensated by the third auxiliary wire C in the third auxiliary pattern C. Therefore the second combined pattern B contains a combination of two or more small lattices . Consequently as shown in when the conductive sheet stack is observed from above the entire surface is covered with a large number of the small lattices and the boundaries between the first large lattices A and the second large lattices B can hardly be found.

Though the first conductive sheet A and the second conductive sheet B are used in the projected capacitive touch panel in the above embodiment they may be used in a surface capacitive touch panel or a resistive touch panel.

In the above conductive sheet stack as shown in the first conductive part A is formed on the one main surface of the first transparent substrate A the second conductive part B is formed on the one main surface of the second transparent substrate B and they are stacked. Alternatively as shown in the first conductive part A may be formed on the one main surface of the first transparent substrate A and the second conductive part B may be formed on the other main surface of the first transparent substrate A. In this case the second transparent substrate B is not used the first transparent substrate A is stacked on the second conductive part B and the first conductive part A is stacked on the first transparent substrate A. In addition another layer may be disposed between the first conductive sheet A and the second conductive sheet B. The first conductive part A and the second conductive part B may be arranged facing each other as long as they are insulated.

The first conductive part A and the second conductive part B may be formed as follows. For example a photosensitive material having the first transparent substrate A or the second transparent substrate B and thereon a photosensitive silver halide containing emulsion layer may be exposed and developed whereby metallic silver portions and light transmitting portions may be formed in the exposed areas and the unexposed areas respectively to obtain the first conductive part A and the second conductive part B. The metallic silver portions may be subjected to a physical development treatment and or a plating treatment to deposit a conductive metal on the metallic silver portions.

As shown in the first conductive part A may be formed on the one main surface of the first transparent substrate A and the second conductive part B may be formed on the other main surface thereof. In this case if the one main surface is exposed and then the other main surface is exposed in the usual method the desired patterns cannot be obtained on the first conductive part A and the second conductive part B occasionally. In particular it is difficult to uniformly form the first auxiliary patterns A around the sides of the first large lattices A and the first insulation patterns A in the first insulations A shown in the second auxiliary patterns B around the long sides of the second large lattices B and the second insulation patterns B in the second insulations B shown in etc.

Thus the first conductive part A on the one main surface and the second conductive part B on the other main surface are formed by subjecting the photosensitive silver halide emulsion layers on both sides of the first transparent substrate A to one shot exposure.

First in step S of a long photosensitive material is prepared. As shown in the photosensitive material has the first transparent substrate A a photosensitive silver halide emulsion layer formed on one main surface of the first transparent substrate A hereinafter referred to as the first photosensitive layer and a photosensitive silver halide emulsion layer formed on the other main surface of the first transparent substrate A hereinafter referred to as the second photosensitive layer .

In step S of the photosensitive material is exposed. In this exposure step a simultaneous both side exposure which includes a first exposure treatment for irradiating the first photosensitive layer on the first transparent substrate A with a light in a first exposure pattern and a second exposure treatment for irradiating the second photosensitive layer on the first transparent substrate A with a light in a second exposure pattern is carried out. In the example of the first photosensitive layer is irradiated through a first photomask with a first light a parallel light and the second photosensitive layer is irradiated through a second photomask with a second light a parallel light while conveying the long photosensitive material in one direction. The first light is obtained such that a light from a first light source is converted to the parallel light by an intermediate first collimator lens and the second light is obtained such that a light from a second light source is converted to the parallel light by an intermediate second collimator lens . Though two light sources the first light source and the second light source are used in the example of only one light source may be used. In this case a light from the one light source may be divided by an optical system into the first light and the second light for exposing the first photosensitive layer and the second photosensitive layer

In the step S of the exposed photosensitive material is developed to prepare e.g. the conductive sheet stack shown in . The conductive sheet stack has the first transparent substrate A the first conductive part A including the first conductive patterns A formed in the first exposure pattern on the one main surface of the first transparent substrate A and the second conductive part B including the second conductive patterns B formed in the second exposure pattern on the other main surface of the first transparent substrate A. Preferred exposure time and development time for the first photosensitive layer and the second photosensitive layer depend on the types of the first light source the second light source and a developer etc. and cannot be categorically determined. The exposure time and development time may be selected in view of achieving a development ratio of 100 .

As shown in in the first exposure treatment in the production method of this embodiment for example the first photomask is placed on the first photosensitive layer in close contact therewith the first light source is arranged facing the first photomask and the first light is emitted from the first light source toward the first photomask so that the first photosensitive layer is exposed. The first photomask has a glass substrate composed of a transparent soda glass and a mask pattern a first exposure pattern formed thereon. Therefore in the first exposure treatment areas in the first photosensitive layer corresponding to the first exposure pattern in the first photomask are exposed. A space of approximately 2 to 10 m may be formed between the first photosensitive layer and the first photomask

Similarly in the second exposure treatment for example the second photomask is placed on the second photosensitive layer in close contact therewith the second light source is arranged facing the second photomask and the second light is emitted from the second light source toward the second photomask so that the second photosensitive layer is exposed. The second photomask as well as the first photomask has a glass substrate composed of a transparent soda glass and a mask pattern a second exposure pattern formed thereon. Therefore in the second exposure treatment areas in the second photosensitive layer corresponding to the second exposure pattern in the second photomask are exposed. In this case a space of approximately 2 to 10 m may be formed between the second photosensitive layer and the second photomask

In the first and second exposure treatments the emission of the first light from the first light source and the emission of the second light from the second light source may be carried out simultaneously or independently. If the emissions are simultaneously carried out the first photosensitive layer and the second photosensitive layer can be simultaneously exposed in one exposure process to reduce the treatment time.

In a case where both of the first photosensitive layer and the second photosensitive layer are not spectrally sensitized a light incident on one side may affect the image formation on the other side the back side in the both side exposure of the photosensitive material .

Thus the first light from the first light source reaches the first photosensitive layer and is scattered by silver halide particles in the first photosensitive layer and a part of the scattered light is transmitted through the first transparent substrate A and reaches the second photosensitive layer . Then a large area of the boundary between the second photosensitive layer and the first transparent substrate A is exposed to form a latent image. As a result the second photosensitive layer is exposed to the second light from the second light source and the first light from the first light source . When the second photosensitive layer is developed to prepare the first conductive sheet stack A the conductive pattern corresponding to the second exposure pattern the second conductive part B is formed and additionally a thin conductive layer is formed due to the first light from the first light source between the conductive patterns so that the desired pattern corresponding to the second exposure pattern cannot be obtained. This is true also for the first photosensitive layer

As a result of intense research in view of solving this problem it has been found that when the thicknesses and the applied silver amounts of the first photosensitive layer and the second photosensitive layer are selected within particular ranges the incident light can be absorbed by the silver halide to suppress the light transmission to the back side. In this embodiment the thicknesses of the first photosensitive layer and the second photosensitive layer may be 1 to 4 m. The upper limit is preferably 2.5 m. The applied silver amounts of the first photosensitive layer and the second photosensitive layer may be 5 to 20 g m.

In the above described exposure technology in close contact with both sides the exposure may be inhibited by dust or the like attached to the film surface causing an image defect. It is known that the dust attachment can be prevented by applying a conductive substance such as a metal oxide or a conductive polymer to the film. However the metal oxide or the like remains in the processed product to deteriorate the transparency of the final product and the conductive polymer is disadvantageous in storage stability etc. As a result of intense research it has been found that a silver halide layer with reduced binder content exhibits a satisfactory conductivity for static charge prevention. Thus the volume ratio of silver binder is controlled in the first photosensitive layer and the second photosensitive layer . The silver binder volume ratios of the first photosensitive layer and the second photosensitive layer are 1 1 or more preferably 2 1 or more.

In a case where the thicknesses the applied silver amounts and the silver binder volume ratios of the first photosensitive layer and the second photosensitive layer are selected as described above the first light emitted from the first light source to the first photosensitive layer does not reach the second photosensitive layer as shown in . Similarly the second light emitted from the second light source to the second photosensitive layer does not reach the first photosensitive layer . As a result in the following development for producing first conductive sheet stack A as shown in only the conductive pattern corresponding to the first exposure pattern the pattern of the first conductive part A is formed on the one main surface of the first transparent substrate A and only the conductive pattern corresponding to the second exposure pattern the pattern of the second conductive part B is formed on the other main surface of the first transparent substrate A so that the desired patterns can be obtained.

In the production method using the above one shot exposure on both sides the first photosensitive layer and the second photosensitive layer can have both of the satisfactory conductivity and both side exposure suitability and the same or different patterns can be formed on the surfaces of the one first transparent substrate A by the exposure whereby the electrodes of the touch panel can be easily formed and the touch panel can be made thinner smaller .

In the above production method the first conductive part A and the second conductive part B are formed using the photosensitive silver halide emulsion layers. The other production methods include the following methods.

A photosensitive plating base layer containing a pre plating treatment material may be formed on the first transparent substrate A or the second transparent substrate B. The resultant layer may be exposed and developed and may be subjected to a plating treatment whereby metal portions and light transmitting portions may be formed in the exposed areas and the unexposed areas respectively to form the first conductive patterns A or the second conductive patterns B. The metal portions may be further subjected to a physical development treatment and or a plating treatment to deposit a conductive metal thereon.

The following two processes can be preferably used in the method using the pre plating treatment material. The processes are disclosed more specifically in Japanese Laid Open Patent Publication Nos. 2003 213437 2006 64923 2006 58797 and 2006 135271 etc.

 a A process comprising applying to a transparent substrate a plating base layer having a functional group interactable with a plating catalyst or a precursor thereof exposing and developing the layer and subjecting the developed layer to a plating treatment to form a metal portion on the plating base material.

 b A process comprising applying to a transparent substrate an underlayer containing a polymer and a metal oxide and a plating base layer having a functional group interactable with a plating catalyst or a precursor thereof in this order exposing and developing the layers and subjecting the developed layers to a plating treatment to form a metal portion on the plating base material.

Alternatively a photoresist film on a copper foil disposed on the first transparent substrate A or the second transparent substrate B may be exposed and developed to form a resist pattern and the copper foil exposed from the resist pattern may be etched to form the first conductive part A or the second conductive part B.

A paste containing fine metal particles may be printed on the first transparent substrate A or the second transparent substrate B and the printed paste may be plated with a metal to form the first conductive part A or the second conductive part B.

The first conductive part A or the second conductive part B may be printed on the first transparent substrate A or the second transparent substrate B by using a screen or gravure printing plate.

The first conductive part A or the second conductive part B may be formed on the first transparent substrate A or the second transparent substrate B by using an inkjet method.

A particularly preferred method which contains using a photographic photosensitive silver halide material for producing the first conductive sheet A or the second conductive sheet B of this embodiment will be mainly described below.

The method for producing the first conductive sheet A or the second conductive sheet B of this embodiment includes the following three processes different in the photosensitive materials and development treatments.

 1 A process comprising subjecting a photosensitive black and white silver halide material free of physical development nuclei to a chemical or thermal development to form the metallic silver portions on the photosensitive material.

 2 A process comprising subjecting a photosensitive black and white silver halide material having a silver halide emulsion layer containing physical development nuclei to a solution physical development to form the metallic silver portions on the photosensitive material.

 3 A process comprising subjecting a stack of a photosensitive black and white silver halide material free of physical development nuclei and an image receiving sheet having a non photosensitive layer containing physical development nuclei to a diffusion transfer development to form the metallic silver portions on the non photosensitive image receiving sheet.

In the process of 1 an integral black and white development procedure is used to form a transmittable conductive film such as a light transmitting conductive film on the photosensitive material. The resulting silver is a chemically or thermally developed silver in the state of a high specific surface area filament and thereby shows a high activity in the following plating or physical development treatment.

In the process of 2 the silver halide particles are melted around and deposited on the physical development nuclei in the exposed areas to form a transmittable conductive film such as a light transmitting conductive film on the photosensitive material. Also in this process an integral black and white development procedure is used. Though high activity can be achieved since the silver halide is deposited on the physical development nuclei in the development the developed silver has a spherical shape with small specific surface.

In the process of 3 the silver halide particles are melted in the unexposed areas and are diffused and deposited on the development nuclei of the image receiving sheet to form a transmittable conductive film such as a light transmitting conductive film on the sheet. In this process a so called separate type procedure is used the image receiving sheet being peeled off from the photosensitive material.

A negative or reversal development treatment can be used in the processes. In the diffusion transfer development the negative development treatment can be carried out using an auto positive photosensitive material.

The chemical development thermal development solution physical development and diffusion transfer development have the meanings generally known in the art and are explained in common photographic chemistry texts such as Shin ichi Kikuchi Kyoritsu Shuppan Co. Ltd. 1955 and C. E. K. Mees 4th ed. Mcmillan 1977. A liquid treatment is generally used in the present invention and also a thermal development treatment can be utilized. For example techniques described in Japanese Laid Open Patent Publication Nos. 2004 184693 2004 334077 and 2005 010752 and Japanese Patent Application Nos. 2004 244080 and 2004 085655 can be used in the present invention.

The structure of each layer in the first conductive sheet A and the second conductive sheet B of this embodiment will be described in detail below.

The first transparent substrate A and the second transparent substrate B may be a plastic film a plastic plate a glass plate etc.

Examples of materials for the plastic film and the plastic plate include polyesters such as polyethylene terephthalates PET and polyethylene naphthalates PEN polyolefins such as polyethylenes PE polypropylenes PP polystyrenes and EVA vinyl resins polycarbonates PC polyamides polyimides acrylic resins and triacetyl celluloses TAC .

The first transparent substrate A and the second transparent substrate B are preferably a film or plate of a plastic having a melting point of about 290 C. or lower such as PET melting point 258 C. PEN melting point 269 C. PE melting point 135 C. PP melting point 163 C. polystyrene melting point 230 C. polyvinyl chloride melting point 180 C. polyvinylidene chloride melting point 212 C. or TAC melting point 290 C. . The PET is particularly preferred from the viewpoints of light transmittance workability etc. The conductive film such as the first conductive sheet A or the second conductive sheet B used in the conductive sheet stack is required to be transparent and therefore the first transparent substrate A and the second transparent substrate B preferably have a high transparency.

The silver salt emulsion layer for forming the conductive layers of the first conductive sheet A and the second conductive sheet B including the first large lattices A the first connections A the first insulation patterns A of the first insulations A the second large lattices B the second connections B the second insulation patterns B of the second insulations B and the small lattices contains a silver salt and a binder and may further contain a solvent and an additive such as a dye.

The silver salt used in this embodiment may be an inorganic silver salt such as a silver halide or an organic silver salt such as silver acetate. In this embodiment the silver halide is preferred because of its excellent light sensing property.

The applied silver amount the amount of the applied silver salt in the silver density of the silver salt emulsion layer is preferably 1 to 30 g m more preferably 1 to 25 g m further preferably 5 to 20 g m. When the applied silver amount is within this range the resultant conductive sheet stack can exhibit a desired surface resistance.

Examples of the binders used in this embodiment include gelatins polyvinyl alcohols PVA polyvinyl pyrolidones PVP polysaccharides such as starches celluloses and derivatives thereof polyethylene oxides polyvinylamines chitosans polylysines polyacrylic acids polyalginic acids polyhyaluronic acids and carboxycelluloses. The binders show a neutral anionic or cationic property depending on the ionicity of a functional group.

In this embodiment the amount of the binder in the silver salt emulsion layer is not particularly limited and may be appropriately selected to obtain sufficient dispersion and adhesion properties. The volume ratio of silver binder in the silver salt emulsion layer is preferably or more more preferably or more. The silver binder volume ratio is preferably 100 1 or less more preferably 50 1 or less. Particularly the silver binder volume ratio is further preferably 1 1 to 4 1 most preferably 1 1 to 3 1. As long as the silver binder volume ratio of the silver salt emulsion layer falls within this range the resistance variation can be reduced even under various applied silver amount whereby the conductive sheet stack can be produced with a uniform surface resistance. The silver binder volume ratio can be obtained by converting the silver halide binder weight ratio of the material to the silver binder weight ratio and by further converting the silver binder weight ratio to the silver binder volume ratio.

The solvent used for forming the silver salt emulsion layer is not particularly limited and examples thereof include water organic solvents e.g. alcohols such as methanol ketones such as acetone amides such as formamide sulfoxides such as dimethyl sulfoxide esters such as ethyl acetate ethers ionic liquids and mixtures thereof.

In this embodiment the ratio of the solvent to the total of the silver salt the binder and the like in the silver salt emulsion layer is 30 to 90 by mass preferably 50 to 80 by mass.

The additives used in this embodiment are not particularly limited and may be preferably selected from known additives.

A protective layer not shown may be formed on the silver salt emulsion layer. The protective layer used in this embodiment contains a binder such as a gelatin or a high molecular polymer and is disposed on the photosensitive silver salt emulsion layer to improve the scratch prevention or mechanical property. The thickness of the protective layer is preferably 0.5 m or less. The method of applying or forming the protective layer is not particularly limited and may be appropriately selected from known applying or forming methods. In addition an undercoat layer or the like may be formed below the silver salt emulsion layer.

The steps for producing the first conductive sheet A and the second conductive sheet B will be described below.

In this embodiment the first conductive part A and the second conductive part B may be formed in a printing process and may be formed by exposure and development treatments etc. in another process. Thus a photosensitive material having the first transparent substrate A or the second transparent substrate B and thereon the silver salt containing layer or a photosensitive material coated with a photopolymer for photolithography is subjected to the exposure treatment. An electromagnetic wave may be used in the exposure. For example the electromagnetic wave may be a light such as a visible light or an ultraviolet light or a radiation ray such as an X ray. The exposure may be carried out using a light source having a wavelength distribution or a specific wavelength.

In this embodiment the emulsion layer is subjected to the development treatment after the exposure. Common development treatment technologies for photographic silver salt films photographic papers print engraving films emulsion masks for photomasking and the like may be used in the present invention. The developer used in the development treatment is not particularly limited and may be a PQ developer an MQ developer an MAA developer etc. Examples of commercially available developers usable in the present invention include CN 16 CR 56 CP45X FD 3 and PAPITOL available from FUJIFILM Corporation C 41 E 6 RA 4 D 19 and D 72 available from Eastman Kodak Company and developers contained in kits thereof. The developer may be a lith developer.

In the present invention the development process may include a fixation treatment for removing the silver salt in the unexposed areas to stabilize the material. Fixation treatment technologies for photographic silver salt films photographic papers print engraving films emulsion masks for photomasking and the like may be used in the present invention.

In the fixation treatment the fixation temperature is preferably about 20 C. to 50 C. more preferably 25 C. to 45 C. The fixation time is preferably 5 seconds to 1 minute more preferably 7 to 50 seconds. The amount of the fixer used is preferably 600 ml mor less more preferably 500 ml mor less particularly preferably 300 ml mor less per 1 mof the photosensitive material treated.

The developed and fixed photosensitive material is preferably subjected to a water washing treatment or a stabilization treatment. The amount of water used in the water washing or stabilization treatment is generally 20 L or less and may be 3 L or less per 1 mof the photosensitive material. The water amount may be 0 and thus the photosensitive material may be washed with storage water.

The ratio of the metallic silver contained in the exposed areas after the development to the silver contained in the areas before the exposure is preferably 50 or more more preferably 80 or more by mass. When the ratio is 50 or more by mass a high conductivity can be achieved.

In this embodiment the tone gradation obtained by the development is preferably more than 4.0 though not particularly restrictive. When the tone is more than 4.0 after the development the conductivity of the conductive metal portion can be increased while maintaining the high transmittance of the light transmitting portion. For example the tone of 4.0 or more can be obtained by doping with rhodium or iridium ion.

The conductive sheet is obtained by the above steps. The surface resistance of the resultant conductive sheet is preferably within a range of 0.1 to 100 ohm sq. The lower limit is preferably 1 ohm sq or more 3 ohm sq or more 5 ohm sq or more or 10 ohm sq or more. The upper limit is preferably 70 ohm sq or less or 50 ohm sq or less. When the surface resistance is controlled within this range the position detection can be performed even in a large touch panel having an area of 10 cm 10 cm or more. The conductive sheet may be subjected to a calender treatment after the development treatment to obtain a desired surface resistance.

In this embodiment to increase the conductivity of the metallic silver portion formed by the above exposure and development treatments conductive metal particles may be deposited thereon by a physical development treatment and or a plating treatment. In the present invention the conductive metal particles may be deposited on the metallic silver portion by only one of the physical development and plating treatments or by the combination of the treatments. The metallic silver portion subjected to the physical development treatment and or the plating treatment in this manner is also referred to as the conductive metal portion.

In this embodiment the physical development is such a process that metal ions such as silver ions are reduced by a reducing agent whereby metal particles are deposited on a metal or metal compound core. Such physical development has been used in the fields of instant B W film instant slide film printing plate production etc. and the technologies can be used in the present invention.

The physical development may be carried out at the same time as the above development treatment after the exposure and may be carried out after the development treatment separately.

In this embodiment the plating treatment may contain electroless plating such as chemical reduction plating or displacement plating electrolytic plating or a combination thereof. Known electroless plating technologies for printed circuit boards etc. may be used in this embodiment. The electroless plating is preferably electroless copper plating.

In this embodiment the metallic silver portion formed by the development treatment or the conductive metal portion formed by the physical development treatment and or the plating treatment is preferably subjected to an oxidation treatment. For example by the oxidation treatment a small amount of a metal deposited on the light transmitting portion can be removed so that the transmittance of the light transmitting portion can be increased to approximately 100 .

In this embodiment the lower limit of the line width of the conductive metal portion is preferably 1 m or more 3 m or more 4 m or more or 5 m or more and the upper limit thereof is preferably 15 m or less 10 m or less 9 m or less or 8 m or less. When the line width is less than the lower limit the conductive metal portion has an insufficient conductivity whereby a touch panel using the conductive part has an insufficient detection sensitivity. On the other hand when the line width is more than the upper limit moire is significantly generated due to the conductive metal portion and a touch panel using the conductive part has a poor visibility. When the line width is within the above range the moire of the conductive metal portion is improved and the visibility is remarkably improved. The side length of the small lattice is preferably 30 to 500 m more preferably 50 to 400 m most preferably 100 to 350 m. The conductive metal portion may have a part with a line width of more than 200 m for the purpose of ground connection etc.

In this embodiment the opening ratio of the conductive metal portion is preferably 85 or more more preferably 90 or more most preferably 95 or more in view of the visible light transmittance. The opening ratio is the ratio of the light transmitting portions other than the conductive portions including the first large lattices A the first connections A the first insulation patterns A of the first insulations A the second large lattices B the second connections B the second insulation patterns B of the second insulations B and the small lattices to the entire conductive part. For example a square lattice having a line width of 15 m and a pitch of 300 m has an opening ratio of 90 .

In this embodiment the light transmitting portion is a portion having light transmittance other than the conductive metal portions in the first conductive sheet A and the second conductive sheet B. The transmittance of the light transmitting portion which is herein a minimum transmittance value in a wavelength region of 380 to 780 nm obtained neglecting the light absorption and reflection of the first transparent substrate A and the second transparent substrate B is 90 or more preferably 95 or more more preferably 97 or more further preferably 98 or more most preferably 99 or more.

The exposure is preferably carried out using a glass mask method or a laser lithography pattern exposure method.

In the first conductive sheet A and the second conductive sheet B of this embodiment the thicknesses of the first transparent substrate A and the second transparent substrate B are preferably 75 to 350 m. When the thicknesses are within the range of 75 to 350 m a desired visible light transmittance can be obtained the substrates can be easily handled and the parasitic capacitance between the first conductive patterns A and the second conductive patterns B can be lowered.

The thickness of the metallic silver portion formed on the first transparent substrate A or the second transparent substrate B may be appropriately selected by controlling the thickness of the coating liquid for the silver salt containing layer applied to the first transparent substrate A or the second transparent substrate B. The thickness of the metallic silver portion may be selected within a range of 0.001 to 0.2 mm and is preferably 30 m or less more preferably 20 m or less further preferably 0.01 to 9 m most preferably 0.05 to 5 m. The metallic silver portion is preferably formed in a patterned shape. The metallic silver portion may have a monolayer structure or a multilayer structure containing two or more layers. When the metallic silver portion has a patterned multilayer structure containing two or more layers the layers may have different wavelength color sensitivities. In this case different patterns can be formed in the layers by using exposure lights with different wavelengths.

In the case of using the first conductive sheet A or the second conductive sheet B in a touch panel the conductive metal portion preferably has a smaller thickness. As the thickness is reduced the viewing angle and visibility of the display panel are improved. Thus the thickness of the layer of the conductive metal on the conductive metal portion is preferably less than 9 m more preferably 0.1 m or more but less than 5 m further preferably 0.1 m or more but less than 3 m.

In this embodiment the thickness of the metallic silver portion can be controlled by changing the coating thickness of the silver salt containing layer and the thickness of the conductive metal particle layer can be controlled in the physical development treatment and or the plating treatment whereby the first conductive sheet A and the second conductive sheet B having a thickness of less than 5 m preferably less than 3 m can be easily produced.

The plating or the like is not necessarily carried out in the method for producing the first conductive sheet A and the second conductive sheet B of this embodiment. This is because the desired surface resistance can be obtained by controlling the applied silver amount and the silver binder volume ratio of the silver salt emulsion layer in the method. The calender treatment or the like may be carried out if necessary.

It is preferred that after the silver salt emulsion layer is developed the resultant is immersed in a hardener and thus subjected to a film hardening treatment. Examples of the hardeners include dialdehydes such as glutaraldehyde adipaldehyde and 2 3 dihydroxy 1 4 dioxane and boric acid described in Japanese Laid Open Patent Publication No. 02 141279.

An additional functional layer such as an antireflection layer or a hard coat layer may be formed in the conductive sheet stack.

The present invention may be appropriately combined with technologies described in the following patent publications and international patent pamphlets shown in Tables 1 and 2. Japanese Laid Open Patent Publication No. Pamphlet No. etc. are omitted therein.

The present invention will be described more specifically below with reference to Examples. Materials amounts ratios treatment contents treatment procedures and the like used in Examples may be appropriately changed without departing from the scope of the present invention.

The following specific examples are therefore to be considered in all respects as illustrative and not restrictive.

In First Example in Examples 1 to 9 and Comparative Examples 1 and 2 the ratio A2 A1 of the occupation area A2 of the thin metal wires in the second conductive patterns B to the occupation area A1 of the thin metal wires in the first conductive patterns A and the ratio a2 a1 of the occupation area a2 of the thin metal wires in the second large lattices B to the occupation area a1 of the thin metal wires in the first large lattices A were changed to evaluate the surface resistances of the first conductive patterns A and the second conductive patterns B and the detection sensitivity of the conductive sheet stack . The properties and evaluation results of Examples 1 to 9 and Comparative Examples 1 and 2 are shown in Table 3.

An emulsion containing an aqueous medium a gelatin and silver iodobromochloride particles was prepared. The amount of the gelatin was 10.0 g per 150 g of Ag and the silver iodobromochloride particles had an I content of 0.2 mol a Br content of 40 mol and an average spherical equivalent diameter of 0.1 m.

KRhBrand KIrClwere added to the emulsion at a concentration of 10 mol mol silver to dope the silver bromide particles with Rh and Ir ions. NaPdClwas further added to the emulsion and the resultant emulsion was subjected to gold sulfur sensitization using chlorauric acid and sodium thiosulfate. The emulsion and a gelatin hardening agent were applied to the first transparent substrate A or the second transparent substrate B having a thickness of 150 m both composed of a polyethylene terephthalate PET . The amount of the applied silver was 10 g m and the Ag gelatin volume ratio was 2 1.

The PET support had a width of 30 cm and the emulsion was applied thereto into a width of 25 cm and a length of 20 m. The both end portions having a width of 3 cm were cut off to obtain a roll photosensitive silver halide material having a width of 24 cm.

An A4 210 mm 297 mm sized area of the first transparent substrate A was exposed in the pattern of the first conductive sheet A shown in and an A4 sized area of the second transparent substrate B was exposed in the pattern of the second conductive sheet B shown in . The exposure was carried out using a parallel light from a light source of a high pressure mercury lamp and patterned photomasks. The pattern width was controlled so that the first small lattices had a side length of 80 m the second small lattices had a side length of 160 m and the thin metal wires had a width of 5 m.

The exposed photosensitive material was treated with the above treatment agents using an automatic processor FG 710PTS manufactured by FUJIFILM Corporation under the following conditions. A development treatment was carried out at 35 C. for 30 seconds a fixation treatment was carried out at 34 C. for 23 seconds and then a water washing treatment was carried out for 20 seconds at a water flow rate of 5 L min.

The first conductive sheet A and the second conductive sheet B of Example 1 were produced in the above manner. Both of the occupation area ratios A2 A1 and a2 a1 were 2.

The first conductive sheet A and the second conductive sheet B of Example 2 were produced in the same manner as Example 1 except that both of the occupation area ratios A2 A1 and a2 a1 were 3.

The first conductive sheet A and the second conductive sheet B of Example 3 were produced in the same manner as Example 1 except that both of the occupation area ratios A2 A1 and a2 a1 were 3.3.

The first conductive sheet A and the second conductive sheet B of Example 4 were produced in the same manner as Example 1 except that both of the occupation area ratios A2 A1 and a2 a1 were 5.

The first conductive sheet A and the second conductive sheet B of Example 5 were produced in the same manner as Example 1 except that both of the occupation area ratios A2 A1 and a2 a1 were 7.

The first conductive sheet A and the second conductive sheet B of Example 6 were produced in the same manner as Example 1 except that both of the occupation area ratios A2 A1 and a2 a1 were 8.

The first conductive sheet A and the second conductive sheet B of Example 7 were produced in the same manner as Example 1 except that both of the occupation area ratios A2 A1 and a2 a1 were 10.

The first conductive sheet A and the second conductive sheet B of Example 8 were produced in the same manner as Example 1 except that both of the occupation area ratios A2 A1 and a2 a1 were 15.

The first conductive sheet A and the second conductive sheet B of Example 9 were produced in the same manner as Example 1 except that both of the occupation area ratios A2 A1 and a2 a1 were 20.

The first conductive sheet A and the second conductive sheet B of Comparative Example 1 were produced in the same manner as Example 1 except that both of the occupation area ratios A2 A1 and a2 a1 were 1.

The first conductive sheet A and the second conductive sheet B of Comparative Example 2 were produced in the same manner as Example 1 except that both of the occupation area ratios A2 A1 and a2 a1 were 25.

In each of the first conductive sheets A and the second conductive sheets B the surface resistivity values of optionally selected 10 points were measured by LORESTA GP Model No. MCP T610 manufactured by Dia Instruments Co. Ltd. utilizing an in line four probe method ASP and the average of the measured values was obtained to evaluate the detection accuracy.

A finger was moved in a predetermined direction on each touch panel to obtain a detection waveform. The detection sensitivity was evaluated based on the detection waveform. The touch panel was evaluated as Excellent when the detection sensitivity was more than 110 of a predetermined threshold value as Good when it was 90 to 110 of the threshold value or as Fair when it was less than 90 of the threshold value.

As shown in Table 3 the conductive sheet stacks of Comparative Examples 1 and 2 had low detection sensitivities. In Comparative Example 1 the second conductive patterns B had a high surface resistance of 75 ohm sq and it was likely that the second conductive patterns B could not reduce the noise impact of the electromagnetic wave. In Comparative Example 2 though the second conductive patterns B had a significantly low surface resistance the first conductive patterns A had a high surface resistance of 150 ohm sq. It was likely that the detection sensitivity of the first large lattices A was deteriorated due to the high surface resistance.

In contrast the conductive sheet stacks of Examples 1 to 9 had high detection sensitivities. Particularly the conductive sheet stacks of Examples 3 to 6 had excellent detection sensitivities.

Therefore it is clear that the ratio of the occupation area A2 of the thin metal wires in the second conductive patterns B to the occupation area A1 of the thin metal wires in the first conductive patterns A preferably satisfies 1

In Second Example conductive sheet stacks of Examples 11 to 17 and Reference Examples 1 and 2 were produced in the same manner as Example 1. In Examples 11 to 17 and Reference Examples 1 and 2 the thickness of the first transparent substrate A was changed to evaluate the detection sensitivity and the visibility. The properties and evaluation results of Examples 11 to 17 and Reference Example 1 and 2 are shown in Table 4.

The transmittance value of the light transmitting portion in the first conductive sheet A and the second conductive sheet B was measured by a spectrophotometer to evaluate the transparency of the first transparent substrate A.

The first conductive sheet A was stacked on the second conductive sheet B to produce the conductive sheet stack . The conductive sheet stack was attached to the display screen of the display device liquid crystal display to form the touch panel . The touch panel was fixed to a turntable and the display device was operated to display a white color. Whether a thickened line or a black point was formed or not on the touch panel and whether boundaries between the first conductive patterns A and the second conductive patterns B and between the first large lattices A and the second large lattices B in the touch panel were visible or not were observed by the naked eye.

As shown in Table 4 in Reference Example 1 though the conductive sheet stack had a good visibility it had a low detection sensitivity. It was likely that because the first transparent substrate A had a small thickness of 70 m a large parasitic capacitance was formed between the first conductive patterns A and the second conductive patterns B and the detection sensitivity was deteriorated due to the parasitic capacitance. In Reference Example 2 the conductive sheet stack was poor in both of the detection sensitivity and the visibility. It was likely that because the first transparent substrate A had a remarkably large thickness of 400 m the finger touch position was hardly detected by the second conductive patterns B in the self capacitance technology and signals from the second large lattices B the drive electrodes was hardly received by the first large lattices A the receiving electrodes in the mutual capacitance technology. The visibility was deteriorated because the first transparent substrate A had a remarkably large thickness of 400 m whereby the light transmitting portions had a low transmittance of 80 lowering the transparency.

In contrast the conductive sheet stacks of Examples 11 to 17 had high detection sensitivities and high visibilities. Particularly the conductive sheet stacks of Examples 13 to 15 had excellent detection sensitivities.

Therefore it is clear that the thickness of the transparent substrate the first transparent substrate A disposed between the first conductive part A and the second conductive part B is preferably 75 to 350 m further preferably 80 m or more and 250 m or less particularly preferably 100 m or more and 200 m or less.

In Third Example conductive sheet stacks of Examples 21 to 23 and Reference Examples 11 were produced in the same manner as Example 1. In Examples 21 to 23 and Reference Examples 11 the ratio a3 a2 of the occupation area a3 of the thin metal wires in the third auxiliary patterns C to the occupation area a2 of the thin metal wires in the second large lattices B was changed to evaluate the surface resistances of the first conductive patterns A and the detection sensitivity of the conductive sheet stack . The properties and evaluation results of Examples 21 to 23 and Reference Examples 11 are shown in Table 5.

As shown in Table 5 in Reference Example 11 the conductive sheet stack had a low detection sensitivity. It was likely that the first conductive patterns A had a high surface resistance of 150 ohm sq lowering the detection sensitivity of the first large lattices A.

In contrast the conductive sheet stacks of Examples 21 to 23 had high detection sensitivities. Particularly the conductive sheet stack of Example 23 had excellent detection sensitivity.

Therefore it is clear that the occupation area of the thin metal wires in the third auxiliary patterns C is preferably or less more preferably or less of the occupation area of the thin metal wires in the second large lattices B.

In Fourth Example the visibilities of Samples 1 to 49 were evaluated. With respect to the visibility the visual finding difficulty of the thin metal wires and transmittance were evaluated. The properties and evaluation results of Samples 1 to 49 are shown in Tables 6 and 7.

The photosensitive silver halide material was prepared in the same manner as Example 1 in First Example and the photosensitive silver halide material was exposed and developed whereby the first conductive sheet A and the second conductive sheet B of Sample 1 were produced. In Sample 1 the thin metal wires had a line width of 7 m and a line pitch of 70 m.

The first conductive sheets A and the second conductive sheets B of Samples 2 3 4 5 6 and 7 were produced in the same manner as Sample 1 except that the thin metal wires had line pitches of 100 200 300 400 500 and 600 m respectively.

The first conductive sheet A and the second conductive sheet B of Sample 8 were produced in the same manner as Sample 1 except that the thin metal wires had a line width of 6 m.

The first conductive sheets A and the second conductive sheets B of Samples 9 10 11 12 13 and 14 were produced in the same manner as Sample 8 except that the thin metal wires had line pitches of 100 200 300 400 500 and 600 m respectively.

The first conductive sheet A and the second conductive sheet B of Sample 15 were produced in the same manner as Sample 1 except that the thin metal wires had a line width of 5 m.

The first conductive sheets A and the second conductive sheets B of Samples 16 17 18 19 20 and 21 were produced in the same manner as Sample 15 except that the thin metal wires had line pitches of 100 200 300 400 500 and 600 m respectively.

The first conductive sheet A and the second conductive sheet B of Sample 22 were produced in the same manner as Sample 1 except that the thin metal wires had a line width of 4 m.

The first conductive sheets A and the second conductive sheets B of Samples 23 24 25 26 27 and 28 were produced in the same manner as Sample 22 except that the thin metal wires had line pitches of 100 200 300 400 500 and 600 m respectively.

The first conductive sheet A and the second conductive sheet B of Sample 29 were produced in the same manner as Sample 1 except that the thin metal wires had a line width of 3 m.

The first conductive sheets A and the second conductive sheets B of Samples 30 31 32 33 34 and 35 were produced in the same manner as Sample 29 except that the thin metal wires had line pitches of 100 200 300 400 500 and 600 m respectively.

The first conductive sheet A and the second conductive sheet B of Sample 36 were produced in the same manner as Sample 1 except that the thin metal wires had a line width of 2 m.

The first conductive sheets A and the second conductive sheets B of Samples 37 38 39 40 41 and 42 were produced in the same manner as Sample 36 except that the thin metal wires had line pitches of 100 200 300 400 500 and 600 m respectively.

The first conductive sheet A and the second conductive sheet B of Sample 43 were produced in the same manner as Sample 1 except that the thin metal wires had a line width of 1 m.

The first conductive sheets A and the second conductive sheets B of Samples 44 45 46 47 48 and 49 were produced in the same manner as Sample 43 except that the thin metal wires had line pitches of 100 200 300 400 500 and 600 m respectively.

In each of Samples 1 to 49 the first conductive sheet A was stacked on the second conductive sheet B to produce the conductive sheet stack . The conductive sheet stack was attached to the display screen of the display device to form the touch panel . The touch panel was fixed to a turntable and the display device was operated to display a white color. Whether a thickened line or a black point was formed or not on the touch panel and whether boundaries between the conductive patterns in the touch panel were visible or not were observed by the naked eye.

The touch panel was evaluated as Excellent when the thickened line the black point and the conductive pattern boundary were less visible as Good when one of the thickened line the black point and the conductive pattern boundary was highly visible as Fair when two of the thickened line the black point and the conductive pattern boundary was highly visible or as Poor when all of the thickened line the black point and the conductive pattern boundary was highly visible.

The transmittance of the conductive sheet stack was measured by a spectrophotometer. The conductive sheet stack was evaluated as Excellent when the transmittance was 90 or more as Good when the transmittance was at least 85 but less than 90 as Fair when the transmittance was at least 80 but less than 85 or as Poor when the transmittance was less than 80 .

As shown in Tables 6 and 7 both of visual finding difficulty of the thin metal wires and transmittance were satisfactory in Samples 4 5 11 and 12 the thin metal wires having a line width of 6 m or more and 7 m or less and a line pitch of 300 m or more and 400 m or less Samples 17 to 19 24 to 26 and 31 to 33 the thin metal wires having a line width of 3 m or more and 5 m or less and a line pitch of 200 m or more and 400 m or less Samples 37 to 40 the thin metal wires having a line width of 2 m and a line pitch of 100 m or more and 400 m or less and Samples 43 to 47 the thin metal wires having a line width of 1 m and a line pitch of 70 m or more and 400 m or less .

Samples 4 and 5 the thin metal wires having a line width of more than 6 m but at most 7 m and a line pitch of 300 m or more and 400 m or less and Samples 10 to 13 17 to 20 24 to 27 31 to 34 38 to 41 and 45 to 48 the thin metal wires having a line width of 6 m or less and a line pitch of 200 m or more and 500 m or less exhibited preferred results.

Samples 4 5 11 and 12 the thin metal wires having a line width of more than 5 m but at most 7 m and a line pitch of 300 m or more and 400 m or less and Samples 17 to 19 24 to 26 31 to 33 38 to 40 and 45 to 47 the thin metal wires having a line width of 5 m or less and a line pitch of 200 to 400 m exhibited particularly preferred results.

It is to be understood that the conductive sheet and the touch panel of the present invention are not limited to the above embodiments and various changes and modifications may be made therein without departing from the scope of the present invention.

