---

title: Linking multiple entities associated with media content
abstract: In one embodiment, a method includes determining that media content being viewed by a user comprises a plurality of entities, accessing information indicative of the plurality of entities, and querying a social graph of the social-networking system for social content associated with each of the plurality of entities and one or more other users of the social-networking system. The social graph includes user nodes that are each associated with a particular user of the social-networking system. The method further includes providing at least a portion of the queried social content from the social graph for display along with the information on a display device of the user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09577975&OS=09577975&RS=09577975
owner: Facebook, Inc.
number: 09577975
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131108
---
The present application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 768 303 entitled Sharing Television and Video Programming through Social Networking by Erick Tseng et al. filed Feb. 22 2013.

A social networking system which may include a social networking website may enable its users such as persons or organizations to interact with it and with each other through it. The social networking system may with input from a user create and store in the social networking system a user profile associated with the user. The user profile may include demographic information communication channel information and information on personal interests of the user. The social networking system may also with input from a user create and store a record of relationships of the user with other users of the social networking system as well as provide services e.g. wall posts photo sharing event organization messaging games or advertisements to facilitate social interaction between or among users.

The social networking system may send over one or more networks content or messages related to its services to a mobile or other computing device of a user. A user may also install software applications on a mobile or other computing device of the user for accessing a user profile of the user and other data within the social networking system. The social networking system may generate a personalized set of content objects to display to a user such as a newsfeed of aggregated stories of other users connected to the user.

A mobile computing device such as a smartphone tablet computer or laptop computer may include functionality for determining its location direction or orientation such as a GPS receiver compass or gyroscope. Such a device may also include functionality for wireless communication such as BLUETOOTH communication near field communication NFC or infrared IR communication or communication with wireless local area networks WLANs or cellular telephone network. Such a device may also include one or more cameras scanners touchscreens microphones or speakers. Mobile computing devices may also execute software applications such as games web browsers or social networking applications. With social networking applications users may connect communicate and share information with other users in their social networks.

Particular embodiments may enhance a user s television viewing experience by providing an application app to view recommended media content and to select what to watch on the user s TV. The app may run on any computing device such as a smartphone and provides recommendations for media content that are based on social actions on a social network. The app interfaces with the user s set top box STB multi system operators MSOs and a social networking system. Some embodiments of the app interface with a dongle of the social networking system.

The app may determine that media content that the user is watching includes multiple entities and access information about those entities in an embodiment. The app may provide the entity information along with social content determined from a social graph such as a number of users that like each entity for display on a user device in some embodiments. The app may display the entity information in a recommendations feed on a display device or overlay the information on a TV in an embodiment.

This disclosure contemplates any suitable network . As an example and not by way of limitation one or more portions of network may include an ad hoc network an intranet an extranet a virtual private network VPN a local area network LAN a wireless LAN WLAN a wide area network WAN a wireless WAN WWAN a metropolitan area network MAN a portion of the Internet a portion of the Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN a cellular telephone network or a combination of two or more of these. Network may include one or more networks .

Links may connect client system social networking system and third party system to communication network or to each other. This disclosure contemplates any suitable links . In particular embodiments one or more links include one or more wireline such as for example Digital Subscriber Line DSL or Data Over Cable Service Interface Specification DOCSIS wireless such as for example Wi Fi or Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX or optical such as for example Synchronous Optical Network SONET or Synchronous Digital Hierarchy SDH links. In particular embodiments one or more links each include an ad hoc network an intranet an extranet a VPN a LAN a WLAN a WAN a WWAN a MAN a portion of the Internet a portion of the PSTN a cellular technology based network a satellite communications technology based network another link or a combination of two or more such links . Links need not necessarily be the same throughout network environment . One or more first links may differ in one or more respects from one or more second links .

In particular embodiments client system may be an electronic device including hardware software or embedded logic components or a combination of two or more such components and capable of carrying out the appropriate functionalities implemented or supported by client system . As an example and not by way of limitation a client system may include a computer system such as a desktop computer notebook or laptop computer netbook a tablet computer e book reader GPS device camera personal digital assistant PDA handheld electronic device cellular telephone smartphone other suitable electronic device or any suitable combination thereof. This disclosure contemplates any suitable client systems . A client system may enable a network user at client system to access network . A client system may enable its user to communicate with other users at other client systems .

In particular embodiments client system may include a web browser such as MICROSOFT INTERNET EXPLORER GOOGLE CHROME or MOZILLA FIREFOX and may have one or more add ons plug ins or other extensions such as TOOLBAR or YAHOO TOOLBAR. A user at client system may enter a Uniform Resource Locator URL or other address directing the web browser to a particular server such as server or a server associated with a third party system and the web browser may generate a Hyper Text Transfer Protocol HTTP request and communicate the HTTP request to server. The server may accept the HTTP request and communicate to client system one or more Hyper Text Markup Language HTML files responsive to the HTTP request. Client system may render a webpage based on the HTML files from the server for presentation to the user. This disclosure contemplates any suitable webpage files. As an example and not by way of limitation webpages may render from HTML files Extensible Hyper Text Markup Language XHTML files or Extensible Markup Language XML files according to particular needs. Such pages may also execute scripts such as for example and without limitation those written in JAVASCRIPT JAVA MICROSOFT SILVERLIGHT combinations of markup language and scripts such as AJAX Asynchronous JAVASCRIPT and XML and the like. Herein reference to a webpage encompasses one or more corresponding webpage files which a browser may use to render the webpage and vice versa where appropriate.

In particular embodiments social networking system may be a network addressable computing system that can host an online social network. Social networking system may generate store receive and send social networking data such as for example user profile data concept profile data social graph information or other suitable data related to the online social network. Social networking system may be accessed by the other components of network environment either directly or via network . In particular embodiments social networking system may include one or more servers . Each server may be a unitary server or a distributed server spanning multiple computers or multiple datacenters. Servers may be of various types such as for example and without limitation web server news server mail server message server advertising server file server application server exchange server database server proxy server another server suitable for performing functions or processes described herein or any combination thereof. In particular embodiments each server may include hardware software or embedded logic components or a combination of two or more such components for carrying out the appropriate functionalities implemented or supported by server . In particular embodiments social networking system may include one or more data stores . Data stores may be used to store various types of information. In particular embodiments the information stored in data stores may be organized according to specific data structures. In particular embodiments each data store may be a relational columnar correlation or other suitable database. Although this disclosure describes or illustrates particular types of databases this disclosure contemplates any suitable types of databases. Particular embodiments may provide interfaces that enable a client system a social networking system or a third party system to manage retrieve modify add or delete the information stored in data store .

In particular embodiments social networking system may store one or more social graphs in one or more data stores . In particular embodiments a social graph may include multiple nodes which may include multiple user nodes each corresponding to a particular user or multiple concept nodes each corresponding to a particular concept and multiple edges connecting the nodes. Social networking system may provide users of the online social network the ability to communicate and interact with other users. In particular embodiments users may join the online social network via social networking system and then add connections e.g. relationships to a number of other users of social networking system whom they want to be connected to. Herein the term friend may refer to any other user of social networking system with whom a user has formed a connection association or relationship via social networking system .

In particular embodiments social networking system may provide users with the ability to take actions on various types of items or objects supported by social networking system . As an example and not by way of limitation the items and objects may include groups or social networks to which users of social networking system may belong events or calendar entries in which a user might be interested computer based applications that a user may use transactions that allow users to buy or sell items via the service interactions with advertisements that a user may perform or other suitable items or objects. A user may interact with anything that is capable of being represented in social networking system or by an external system of third party system which is separate from social networking system and coupled to social networking system via a network .

In particular embodiments social networking system may be capable of linking a variety of entities. As an example and not by way of limitation social networking system may enable users to interact with each other as well as receive content from third party systems or other entities or to allow users to interact with these entities through an application programming interfaces API or other communication channels.

In particular embodiments a third party system may include one or more types of servers one or more data stores one or more interfaces including but not limited to APIs one or more web services one or more content sources one or more networks or any other suitable components e.g. that servers may communicate with. A third party system may be operated by a different entity from an entity operating social networking system . In particular embodiments however social networking system and third party systems may operate in conjunction with each other to provide social networking services to users of social networking system or third party systems . In this sense social networking system may provide a platform or backbone which other systems such as third party systems may use to provide social networking services and functionality to users across the Internet.

In particular embodiments a third party system may include a third party content object provider. A third party content object provider may include one or more sources of content objects which may be communicated to a client system . As an example and not by way of limitation content objects may include information regarding things or activities of interest to the user such as for example movie show times movie reviews restaurant reviews restaurant menus product information and reviews or other suitable information. As another example and not by way of limitation content objects may include incentive content objects such as coupons discount tickets gift certificates or other suitable incentive objects.

In particular embodiments social networking system also includes user generated content objects which may enhance a user s interactions with social networking system . User generated content may include anything a user can add upload send or post to social networking system . As an example and not by way of limitation a user communicates posts to social networking system from a client system . Posts may include data such as status updates or other textual data location information photos videos links music or other similar data or media. Content may also be added to social networking system by a third party through a communication channel such as a newsfeed or stream.

In particular embodiments social networking system may include a variety of servers sub systems programs modules logs and data stores. In particular embodiments social networking system may include one or more of the following a web server action logger API request server relevance and ranking engine content object classifier notification controller action log third party content object exposure log inference module authorization privacy server search module advertisement targeting module user interface module user profile store connection store third party content store or location store. Social networking system may also include suitable components such as network interfaces security mechanisms load balancers failover servers management and network operations consoles other suitable components or any suitable combination thereof. In particular embodiments social networking system may include one or more user profile stores for storing user profiles. A user profile may include for example biographic information demographic information behavioral information social information or other types of descriptive information such as work experience educational history hobbies or preferences interests affinities or location. Interest information may include interests related to one or more categories. Categories may be general or specific. As an example and not by way of limitation if a user likes an article about a brand of shoes the category may be the brand or the general category of shoes or clothing. A connection store may be used for storing connection information about users. The connection information may indicate users who have similar or common work experience group memberships hobbies educational history or are in any way related or share common attributes. The connection information may also include user defined connections between different users and content both internal and external . A web server may be used for linking social networking system to one or more client systems or one or more third party system via network . The web server may include a mail server or other messaging functionality for receiving and routing messages between social networking system and one or more client systems . An API request server may allow a third party system to access information from social networking system by calling one or more APIs. An action logger may be used to receive communications from a web server about a user s actions on or off social networking system . In conjunction with the action log a third party content object log may be maintained of user exposures to third party content objects. A notification controller may provide information regarding content objects to a client system . Information may be pushed to a client system as notifications or information may be pulled from client system responsive to a request received from client system . Authorization servers may be used to enforce one or more privacy settings of the users of social networking system . A privacy setting of a user determines how particular information associated with a user can be shared. The authorization server may allow users to opt in to or opt out of having their actions logged by social networking system or shared with other systems e.g. third party system such as for example by setting appropriate privacy settings. Third party content object stores may be used to store content objects received from third parties such as a third party system . Location stores may be used for storing location information received from client systems associated with users. Advertisement pricing modules may combine social information the current time location information or other suitable information to provide relevant advertisements in the form of notifications to a user.

In particular embodiments a user node may correspond to a user of social networking system . As an example and not by way of limitation a user may be an individual human user an entity e.g. an enterprise business or third party application or a group e.g. of individuals or entities that interacts or communicates with or over social networking system . In particular embodiments when a user registers for an account with social networking system social networking system may create a user node corresponding to the user and store the user node in one or more data stores. Users and user nodes described herein may where appropriate refer to registered users and user nodes associated with registered users. In addition or as an alternative users and user nodes described herein may where appropriate refer to users that have not registered with social networking system . In particular embodiments a user node may be associated with information provided by a user or information gathered by various systems including social networking system . As an example and not by way of limitation a user may provide his or her name profile picture contact information birth date sex marital status family status employment education background preferences interests or other demographic information. In particular embodiments a user node may be associated with one or more data objects corresponding to information associated with a user. In particular embodiments a user node may correspond to one or more webpages.

In particular embodiments a concept node may correspond to a concept. As an example and not by way of limitation a concept may correspond to a place such as for example a movie theater restaurant landmark or city a website such as for example a website associated with social network system or a third party website associated with a web application server an entity such as for example a person business group sports team or celebrity a resource such as for example an audio file video file digital photo text file structured document or application which may be located within social networking system or on an external server such as a web application server real or intellectual property such as for example a sculpture painting movie game song idea photograph or written work a game an activity an idea or theory another suitable concept or two or more such concepts. A concept node may be associated with information of a concept provided by a user or information gathered by various systems including social networking system . As an example and not by way of limitation information of a concept may include a name or a title one or more images e.g. an image of the cover page of a book a location e.g. an address or a geographical location a website which may be associated with a URL contact information e.g. a phone number or an email address other suitable concept information or any suitable combination of such information. In particular embodiments a concept node may be associated with one or more data objects corresponding to information associated with concept node . In particular embodiments a concept node may correspond to one or more webpages.

In particular embodiments a node in social graph may represent or be represented by a webpage which may be referred to as a profile page . Profile pages may be hosted by or accessible to social networking system . Profile pages may also be hosted on third party websites associated with a third party server . As an example and not by way of limitation a profile page corresponding to a particular external webpage may be the particular external webpage and the profile page may correspond to a particular concept node . Profile pages may be viewable by all or a selected subset of other users. As an example and not by way of limitation a user node may have a corresponding user profile page in which the corresponding user may add content make declarations or otherwise express himself or herself. As another example and not by way of limitation a concept node may have a corresponding concept profile page in which one or more users may add content make declarations or express themselves particularly in relation to the concept corresponding to concept node .

In particular embodiments a concept node may represent a third party webpage or resource hosted by a third party system . The third party webpage or resource may include among other elements content a selectable or other icon or other inter actable object which may be implemented for example in JavaScript AJAX or PHP codes representing an action or activity. As an example and not by way of limitation a third party webpage may include a selectable icon such as like check in eat recommend or another suitable action or activity. A user viewing the third party webpage may perform an action by selecting one of the icons e.g. eat causing a client system to send to social networking system a message indicating the user s action. In response to the message social networking system may create an edge e.g. an eat edge between a user node corresponding to the user and a concept node corresponding to the third party webpage or resource and store edge in one or more data stores.

In particular embodiments a pair of nodes in social graph may be connected to each other by one or more edges . An edge connecting a pair of nodes may represent a relationship between the pair of nodes. In particular embodiments an edge may include or represent one or more data objects or attributes corresponding to the relationship between a pair of nodes. As an example and not by way of limitation a first user may indicate that a second user is a friend of the first user. In response to this indication social networking system may send a friend request to the second user. If the second user confirms the friend request social networking system may create an edge connecting the first user s user node to the second user s user node in social graph and store edge as social graph information in one or more of data stores . In the example of social graph includes an edge indicating a friend relation between user nodes of user A and user B and an edge indicating a friend relation between user nodes of user C and user B. Although this disclosure describes or illustrates particular edges with particular attributes connecting particular user nodes this disclosure contemplates any suitable edges with any suitable attributes connecting user nodes . As an example and not by way of limitation an edge may represent a friendship family relationship business or employment relationship fan relationship follower relationship visitor relationship subscriber relationship superior subordinate relationship reciprocal relationship non reciprocal relationship another suitable type of relationship or two or more such relationships. Moreover although this disclosure generally describes nodes as being connected this disclosure also describes users or concepts as being connected. Herein references to users or concepts being connected may where appropriate refer to the nodes corresponding to those users or concepts being connected in social graph by one or more edges .

In particular embodiments an edge between a user node and a concept node may represent a particular action or activity performed by a user associated with user node toward a concept associated with a concept node . As an example and not by way of limitation as illustrated in a user may like attended played listened cooked worked at or watched a concept each of which may correspond to a edge type or subtype. A concept profile page corresponding to a concept node may include for example a selectable check in icon such as for example a clickable check in icon or a selectable add to favorites icon. Similarly after a user clicks these icons social networking system may create a favorite edge or a check in edge in response to a user s action corresponding to a respective action. As another example and not by way of limitation a user user C may listen to a particular song Ramble On using a particular application SPOTIFY which is an online music application . In this case social networking system may create a listened edge and a used edge as illustrated in between user nodes corresponding to the user and concept nodes corresponding to the song and application to indicate that the user listened to the song and used the application. Moreover social networking system may create a played edge as illustrated in between concept nodes corresponding to the song and the application to indicate that the particular song was played by the particular application. In this case played edge corresponds to an action performed by an external application SPOTIFY on an external audio file the song Imagine . Although this disclosure describes particular edges with particular attributes connecting user nodes and concept nodes this disclosure contemplates any suitable edges with any suitable attributes connecting user nodes and concept nodes . Moreover although this disclosure describes edges between a user node and a concept node representing a single relationship this disclosure contemplates edges between a user node and a concept node representing one or more relationships. As an example and not by way of limitation an edge may represent both that a user likes and has used at a particular concept. Alternatively another edge may represent each type of relationship or multiples of a single relationship between a user node and a concept node as illustrated in between user node for user E and concept node for SPOTIFY .

In particular embodiments social networking system may create an edge between a user node and a concept node in social graph . As an example and not by way of limitation a user viewing a concept profile page such as for example by using a web browser or a special purpose application hosted by the user s client system may indicate that he or she likes the concept represented by the concept node by clicking or selecting a Like icon which may cause the user s client system to send to social networking system a message indicating the user s liking of the concept associated with the concept profile page. In response to the message social networking system may create an edge between user node associated with the user and concept node as illustrated by like edge between the user and concept node . In particular embodiments social networking system may store an edge in one or more data stores. In particular embodiments an edge may be automatically formed by social networking system in response to a particular user action. As an example and not by way of limitation if a first user uploads a picture watches a movie or listens to a song an edge may be formed between user node corresponding to the first user and concept nodes corresponding to those concepts. Although this disclosure describes forming particular edges in particular manners this disclosure contemplates forming any suitable edges in any suitable manner.

In particular embodiments an advertisement may be text which may be HTML linked one or more images which may be HTML linked one or more videos audio one or more ADOBE FLASH files a suitable combination of these or any other suitable advertisement in any suitable digital format presented on one or more web pages in one or more e mails or in connection with search results requested by a user. In addition or as an alternative an advertisement may be one or more sponsored stories e.g. a news feed or ticker item on social networking system . A sponsored story may be a social action by a user such as liking a page liking or commenting on a post on a page RSVPing to an event associated with a page voting on a question posted on a page checking in to a place using an application or playing a game or liking or sharing a website that an advertiser promotes for example by having the social action presented within a pre determined area of a profile page of a user or other page presented with additional information associated with the advertiser bumped up or otherwise highlighted within news feeds or tickers of other users or otherwise promoted. The advertiser may pay to have the social action promoted. The social action may be promoted within or on social networking system . In addition or as an alternative the social action may be promoted outside or off of social networking system where appropriate. In particular embodiments a page may be an on line presence such as a webpage or website within or outside of social networking system of a business organization or brand facilitating its sharing of stories and connecting with people. A page may be customized for example by adding applications posting stories or hosting events.

A sponsored story may be generated from stories in users news feeds and promoted to specific areas within displays of users web browsers when viewing a web page associated with social networking system . Sponsored stories are more likely to be viewed by users at least in part because sponsored stories generally involve interactions or suggestions by the users friends fan pages or other connections. In connection with sponsored stories particular embodiments may utilize one or more systems components elements functions methods operations or steps disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 327 557 entitled Sponsored Stories Unit Creation from Organic Activity Stream and filed 15 Dec. 2011 U.S. Patent Application Publication No. us 2012 0203831 entitled Sponsored Stories Unit Creation from Organic Activity Stream and filed 3 Feb. 2012 as U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 020 745 or U.S. Patent Application Publication No. us 2012 0233009 entitled Endorsement Subscriptions for Sponsored Stories and filed 9 Mar. 2011 as U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 044 506 which are all incorporated herein by reference as an example and not by way of limitation. In particular embodiments sponsored stories may utilize computer vision algorithms to detect products in uploaded images or photos lacking an explicit connection to an advertiser as disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 212 356 entitled Computer Vision Content Detection for Sponsored Stories and filed 18 Aug. 2011 which is incorporated herein by reference as an example and not by way of limitation.

As described above an advertisement may be text which may be HTML linked one or more images which may be HTML linked one or more videos audio one or more ADOBE FLASH files a suitable combination of these or any other suitable advertisement in any suitable digital format. In particular embodiments an advertisement may be requested for display within third party webpages social networking system webpages or other pages. An advertisement may be displayed in a dedicated portion of a page such as in a banner area at the top of the page in a column at the side of the page in a GUI of the page in a pop up window over the top of content of the page or elsewhere with respect to the page. In addition or as an alternative an advertisement may be displayed within an application or within a game. An advertisement may be displayed within dedicated pages requiring the user to interact with or watch the advertisement before the user may access a page utilize an application or play a game. The user may for example view the advertisement through a web browser.

A user may interact with an advertisement in any suitable manner. The user may click or otherwise select the advertisement and the advertisement may direct the user or a browser or other application being used by the user to a page associated with the advertisement. At the page associated with the advertisement the user may take additional actions such as purchasing a product or service associated with the advertisement receiving information associated with the advertisement or subscribing to a newsletter associated with the advertisement. An advertisement with audio or video may be played by selecting a component of the advertisement like a play button . In particular embodiments an advertisement may include one or more games which a user or other application may play in connection with the advertisement. An advertisement may include functionality for responding to a poll or question in the advertisement.

An advertisement may include social networking system functionality that a user may interact with. For example an advertisement may enable a user to like or otherwise endorse the advertisement by selecting an icon or link associated with endorsement. Similarly a user may share the advertisement with another user e.g. through social networking system or RSVP e.g. through social networking system to an event associated with the advertisement. In addition or as an alternative an advertisement may include social networking system context directed to the user. For example an advertisement may display information about a friend of the user within social networking system who has taken an action associated with the subject matter of the advertisement.

Social networking system functionality or context may be associated with an advertisement in any suitable manner. For example an advertising system which may include hardware software or both for receiving bids for advertisements and selecting advertisements in response may retrieve social networking functionality or context from social networking system and incorporate the retrieved social networking functionality or context into the advertisement before serving the advertisement to a user. Examples of selecting and providing social networking system functionality or context with an advertisement are disclosed in U.S. Patent Application Publication No. US 2012 0084160 entitled Providing Social Endorsements with Online Advertising and filed 5 Oct. 2010 as U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 898 662 and in U.S. Patent Application Publication No. US 2012 0232998 entitled Selecting Social Endorsement Information for an Advertisement for Display to a Viewing User and filed 8 Mar. 2011 as U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 043 424 which are both incorporated herein by reference as examples only and not by way of limitation. Interacting with an advertisement that is associated with social networking system functionality or context may cause information about the interaction to be displayed in a profile page of the user in social networking system .

Particular embodiments may facilitate the delivery of advertisements to users that are more likely to find the advertisements more relevant or useful. For example an advertiser may realize higher conversion rates and therefore higher return on investment ROI from advertising by identifying and targeting users that are more likely to find its advertisements more relevant or useful. The advertiser may use user profile information in social networking system to identify those users. In addition or as an alternative social networking system may use user profile information in social networking system to identify those users for the advertiser. As examples and not by way of limitation particular embodiments may target users with the following invitations or suggestions of events suggestions regarding coupons deals or wish list items suggestions regarding friends life events suggestions regarding groups advertisements or social advertisements. Such targeting may occur where appropriate on or within social networking system off or outside of social networking system or on mobile computing devices of users. When on or within social networking system such targeting may be directed to users news feeds search results e mail or other in boxes or notifications channels or may appear in particular area of web pages of social networking system such as a right hand side of a web page in a concierge or grouper area which may group along a right hand rail advertisements associated with the same concept node or object or a network ego area which may be based on what a user is viewing on the web page and a current news feed of the user . When off or outside of social networking system such targeting may be provided through a third party website e.g. involving an ad exchange or a social plug in. When on a mobile computing device of a user such targeting may be provided through push notifications to the mobile computing device.

Targeting criteria used to identify and target users may include explicit stated user interests on social networking system or explicit connections of a user to a node object entity brand or page on social networking system . In addition or as an alternative such targeting criteria may include implicit or inferred user interests or connections which may include analyzing a user s history demographic social or other activities friends social or other activities subscriptions or any of the preceding of other users similar to the user based e.g. on shared interests connections or events . Particular embodiments may utilize platform targeting which may involve platform and like impression data contextual signals e.g. Who is viewing now or has viewed recently the page for COCA COLA light weight connections e.g. check ins connection lookalikes fans extracted keywords EMU advertising inferential advertising coefficients affinities or other social graph information friends of friends connections pinning or boosting deals polls household income social clusters or groups products detected in images or other media social or open graph edge types geo prediction views of profile or pages status updates or other user posts analysis of which may involve natural language processing or keyword extraction events information or collaborative filtering. Identifying and targeting users may also include privacy settings such as user opt outs data hashing or data anonymization as appropriate.

To target users with advertisements particular embodiments may utilize one or more systems components elements functions methods operations or steps disclosed in the following which are all incorporated herein by reference as examples and not by way of limitation U.S. Patent Application Publication No. US 2009 0119167 entitled Social Advertisements and Other Informational Messages on a Social Networking Website and Advertising Model for Same and filed 18 Aug. 2008 as U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 193 702 U.S. Patent Application Publication No. US 2009 0070219 entitled Targeting Advertisements in a Social Network and filed 20 Aug. 2008 as U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 195 321 U.S. Patent Application Publication No. US 2012 0158501 entitled Targeting Social Advertising to Friends of Users Who Have Interacted With an Object Associated with the Advertising and filed 15 Dec. 2010 as U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 968 786 or U.S. Patent Application Publication No. US 2012 0166532 entitled Contextually Relevant Affinity Prediction in a Social Networking System and filed 23 Dec. 2010 as U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 978 265.

An advertisement may be presented or otherwise delivered using plug ins for web browsers or other applications iframe elements news feeds tickers notifications which may include for example e mail Short Message Service SMS messages or notifications or other means. An advertisement may be presented or otherwise delivered to a user on a mobile or other computing device of the user. In connection with delivering advertisements particular embodiments may utilize one or more systems components elements functions methods operations or steps disclosed in the following which are all incorporated herein by reference as examples and not by way of limitation U.S. Patent Application Publication No. US 2012 0159635 entitled Comment Plug In for Third Party System and filed 15 Dec. 2010 as U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 969 368 U.S. Patent Application Publication No. US 2012 0158753 entitled Comment Ordering System and filed 15 Dec. 2010 as U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 969 408 U.S. Pat. No. 7 669 123 entitled Dynamically Providing a News Feed About a User of a Social Network and filed 11 Aug. 2006 as U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 503 242 U.S. Patent Application Publication No. US 2008 0040475 entitled Providing a News Feed Based on User Affinity in a Social Network Environment and filed 11 Aug. 2006 as U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 503 093 U.S. Patent Application Publication No. US 2012 0072428 entitled Action Clustering for News Feeds and filed 16 Sep. 2010 as U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 884 010 U.S. Patent Application Publication No. US 2001 0004692 entitled Gathering Information about Connections in a Social Networking Service and filed 1 Jul. 2009 as U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 496 606 U.S. Patent Application Publication No. US 2008 0065701 entitled Method and System for Tracking Changes to User Content in an Online Social Network and filed 12 Sep. 2006 as U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 531 154 U.S. Patent Application Publication No. US 2008 0065604 entitled Feeding Updates to Landing Pages of Users of an Online Social Network from External Sources and filed 17 Jan. 2007 as U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 624 088 U.S. Pat. No. 8 244 848 entitled Integrated Social Network Environment and filed 19 Apr. 2010 as U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 763 171 U.S. Patent Application Publication No. US 2011 0083101 entitled Sharing of Location Based Content Item in Social Networking Service and filed 6 Oct. 2009 as U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 574 614 U.S. Pat. No. 8 150 844 entitled Location Ranking Using Social Graph Information and filed 18 Aug. 2010 as U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 858 718 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 051 286 entitled Sending Notifications to Users Based on Users Notification Tolerance Levels and filed 18 Mar. 2011 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 096 184 entitled Managing Notifications Pushed to User Devices and filed 28 Apr. 2011 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 276 248 entitled Platform Specific Notification Delivery Channel and filed 18 Oct. 2011 or U.S. Patent Application Publication No. US 2012 0197709 entitled Mobile Advertisement with Social Component for Geo Social networking system and filed 1 Feb. 2011 as U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 019 061. Although this disclosure describes or illustrates particular advertisements being delivered in particular ways and in connection with particular content this disclosure contemplates any suitable advertisements delivered in any suitable ways and in connection with any suitable content.

In particular embodiments social networking system may determine the social graph affinity which may be referred to herein as affinity of various social graph entities for each other. Affinity may represent the strength of a relationship or level of interest between particular objects associated with the online social network such as users concepts content actions advertisements other objects associated with the online social network or any suitable combination thereof. Affinity may also be determined with respect to objects associated with third party systems or other suitable systems. An overall affinity for a social graph entity for each user subject matter or type of content may be established. The overall affinity may change based on continued monitoring of the actions or relationships associated with the social graph entity. Although this disclosure describes determining particular affinities in a particular manner this disclosure contemplates determining any suitable affinities in any suitable manner.

In particular embodiments social networking system may measure or quantify social graph affinity using an affinity coefficient which may be referred to herein as coefficient . The coefficient may represent or quantify the strength of a relationship between particular objects associated with the online social network. The coefficient may also represent a probability or function that measures a predicted probability that a user will perform a particular action based on the user s interest in the action. In this way a user s future actions may be predicted based on the user s prior actions where the coefficient may be calculated at least in part a the history of the user s actions. Coefficients may be used to predict any number of actions which may be within or outside of the online social network. As an example and not by way of limitation these actions may include various types of communications such as sending messages posting content or commenting on content various types of a observation actions such as accessing or viewing profile pages media or other suitable content various types of coincidence information about two or more social graph entities such as being in the same group tagged in the same photograph checked in at the same location or attending the same event or other suitable actions. Although this disclosure describes measuring affinity in a particular manner this disclosure contemplates measuring affinity in any suitable manner.

In particular embodiments social networking system may use a variety of factors to calculate a coefficient. These factors may include for example user actions types of relationships between objects location information other suitable factors or any combination thereof. In particular embodiments different factors may be weighted differently when calculating the coefficient. The weights for each factor may be static or the weights may change according to for example the user the type of relationship the type of action the user s location and so forth. Ratings for the factors may be combined according to their weights to determine an overall coefficient for the user. As an example and not by way of limitation particular user actions may be assigned both a rating and a weight while a relationship associated with the particular user action is assigned a rating and a correlating weight e.g. so the weights total 100 . To calculate the coefficient of a user towards a particular object the rating assigned to the user s actions may comprise for example 60 of the overall coefficient while the relationship between the user and the object may comprise 40 of the overall coefficient. In particular embodiments the social networking system may consider a variety of variables when determining weights for various factors used to calculate a coefficient such as for example the time since information was accessed decay factors frequency of access relationship to information or relationship to the object about which information was accessed relationship to social graph entities connected to the object short or long term averages of user actions user feedback other suitable variables or any combination thereof. As an example and not by way of limitation a coefficient may include a decay factor that causes the strength of the signal provided by particular actions to decay with time such that more recent actions are more relevant when calculating the coefficient. The ratings and weights may be continuously updated based on continued tracking of the actions upon which the coefficient is based. Any type of process or algorithm may be employed for assigning combining averaging and so forth the ratings for each factor and the weights assigned to the factors. In particular embodiments social networking system may determine coefficients using machine learning algorithms trained on historical actions and past user responses or data farmed from users by exposing them to various options and measuring responses. Although this disclosure describes calculating coefficients in a particular manner this disclosure contemplates calculating coefficients in any suitable manner.

In particular embodiments social networking system may calculate a coefficient based on a user s actions. Social networking system may monitor such actions on the online social network on a third party system on other suitable systems or any combination thereof. Any suitable type of user actions may be tracked or monitored. Typical user actions include viewing profile pages creating or posting content interacting with content joining groups listing and confirming attendance at events checking in at locations liking particular pages creating pages and performing other tasks that facilitate social action. In particular embodiments social networking system may calculate a coefficient based on the user s actions with particular types of content. The content may be associated with the online social network a third party system or another suitable system. The content may include users profile pages posts news stories headlines instant messages chat room conversations emails advertisements pictures video music other suitable objects or any combination thereof. Social networking system may analyze a user s actions to determine whether one or more of the actions indicate an affinity for subject matter content other users and so forth. As an example and not by way of limitation if a user may make frequently posts content related to coffee or variants thereof social networking system may determine the user has a high coefficient with respect to the concept coffee . Particular actions or types of actions may be assigned a higher weight and or rating than other actions which may affect the overall calculated coefficient. As an example and not by way of limitation if a first user emails a second user the weight or the rating for the action may be higher than if the first user simply views the user profile page for the second user.

In particular embodiments social networking system may calculate a coefficient based on the type of relationship between particular objects. Referencing the social graph social networking system may analyze the number and or type of edges connecting particular user nodes and concept nodes when calculating a coefficient. As an example and not by way of limitation user nodes that are connected by a spouse type edge representing that the two users are married may be assigned a higher coefficient than a user nodes that are connected by a friend type edge. In other words depending upon the weights assigned to the actions and relationships for the particular user the overall affinity may be determined to be higher for content about the user s spouse than for content about the user s friend. In particular embodiments the relationships a user has with another object may affect the weights and or the ratings of the user s actions with respect to calculating the coefficient for that object. As an example and not by way of limitation if a user is tagged in first photo but merely likes a second photo social networking system may determine that the user has a higher coefficient with respect to the first photo than the second photo because having a tagged in type relationship with content may be assigned a higher weight and or rating than having a like type relationship with content. In particular embodiments social networking system may calculate a coefficient for a first user based on the relationship one or more second users have with a particular object. In other words the connections and coefficients other users have with an object may affect the first user s coefficient for the object. As an example and not by way of limitation if a first user is connected to or has a high coefficient for one or more second users and those second users are connected to or have a high coefficient for a particular object social networking system may determine that the first user should also have a relatively high coefficient for the particular object. In particular embodiments the coefficient may be based on the degree of separation between particular objects. The lower coefficient may represent the decreasing likelihood that the first user will share an interest in content objects of the user that is indirectly connected to the first user in the social graph . As an example and not by way of limitation social graph entities that are closer in the social graph i.e. fewer degrees of separation may have a higher coefficient than entities that are further apart in the social graph .

In particular embodiments social networking system may calculate a coefficient based on location information. Objects that are geographically closer to each other may be considered to be more related or of more interest to each other than more distant objects. In particular embodiments the coefficient of a user towards a particular object may be based on the proximity of the object s location to a current location associated with the user or the location of a client system of the user . A first user may be more interested in other users or concepts that are closer to the first user. As an example and not by way of limitation if a user is one mile from an airport and two miles from a gas station social networking system may determine that the user has a higher coefficient for the airport than the gas station based on the proximity of the airport to the user.

In particular embodiments social networking system may perform particular actions with respect to a user based on coefficient information. Coefficients may be used to predict whether a user will perform a particular action based on the user s interest in the action. A coefficient may be used when generating or presenting any type of objects to a user such as advertisements search results news stories media messages notifications or other suitable objects. The coefficient may also be utilized to rank and order such objects as appropriate. In this way social networking system may provide information that is relevant to user s interests and current circumstances increasing the likelihood that they will find such information of interest. In particular embodiments social networking system may generate content based on coefficient information. Content objects may be provided or selected based on coefficients specific to a user. As an example and not by way of limitation the coefficient may be used to generate media for the user where the user may be presented with media for which the user has a high overall coefficient with respect to the media object. As another example and not by way of limitation the coefficient may be used to generate advertisements for the user where the user may be presented with advertisements for which the user has a high overall coefficient with respect to the advertised object. In particular embodiments social networking system may generate search results based on coefficient information. Search results for a particular user may be scored or ranked based on the coefficient associated with the search results with respect to the querying user. As an example and not by way of limitation search results corresponding to objects with higher coefficients may be ranked higher on a search results page than results corresponding to objects having lower coefficients.

In particular embodiments social networking system may calculate a coefficient in response to a request for a coefficient from a particular system or process. To predict the likely actions a user may take or may be the subject of in a given situation any process may request a calculated coefficient for a user. The request may also include a set of weights to use for various factors used to calculate the coefficient. This request may come from a process running on the online social network from a third party system e.g. via an API or other communication channel or from another suitable system. In response to the request social networking system may calculate the coefficient or access the coefficient information if it has previously been calculated and stored . In particular embodiments social networking system may measure an affinity with respect to a particular process. Different processes both internal and external to the online social network may request a coefficient for a particular object or set of objects. Social networking system may provide a measure of affinity that is relevant to the particular process that requested the measure of affinity. In this way each process receives a measure of affinity that is tailored for the different context in which the process will use the measure of affinity.

In connection with social graph affinity and affinity coefficients particular embodiments may utilize one or more systems components elements functions methods operations or steps disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 503 093 filed 11 Aug. 2006 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 977 027 filed 22 Dec. 2010 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 978 265 filed 23 Dec. 2010 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 632 869 filed 1 Oct. 2012 each of which is incorporated by reference.

In some embodiments an application referenced hereafter as the social TV app may be provided to run on client system . In general the social TV app may be an application running on a smartphone e.g. an iPhone or any other client system that interfaces with social networking system and MSOs. In an embodiment the social TV app may display a programming guide. For example the programming guide may aggregate various media content hereinafter media content shows and programs may be used interchangeably from multiple content providers into a feed. As another example the programming guide may display recommended media content based on social context. In some embodiments the social TV app may not automatically update the programming guide so as not to confuse the user. Instead the social TV app may present an interactive button to the user that allows the user to cause an update of the programming guide. The social TV app may determine a user s subscription package in an embodiment. In some embodiments the social TV app may present a plurality of thumbnails representing previously watched media content that allow the user to quickly switch back and forth between media content. Some embodiments may delay publishing that the user watched a particular program. In particular embodiments the social TV app may determine that media content has multiple entities and provide social context for the entities. When there are multiple versions of a particular media content some embodiments may aggregate likes of the various versions to a main page representing the media content. In some embodiments the social TV app gives a user control over what is displayed on a second screen TV etc. . In some embodiments the social TV app functions as a channel changer. In some embodiments the social TV app may interact with a dongle such as social TV dongle described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 602 011 which is herein incorporated by reference as an example and not by way of limitation. In some embodiments social data from social networking system is integrated into what is displayed in the social TV app. For example the social TV app may display who is currently watching a particular show who has liked the particular show and the like. discuss various embodiments of the social TV app.

Programming guide may include a show feed or a recommendations feed hereinafter show feed and recommendations feed are used interchangeably which aggregates content from multiple sources e.g. over the top OTT content provider such as NetFlix Hulu Amazon Video and YouTube multiple system operators MSO such as Comcast Time Warner AT T U verse and Dish Network on demand programming DVRs third party internet sites other cable provides etc. into a convenient list of available media content in an embodiment. In some embodiments a central aggregation point is provided that allows the social TV app or social networking system to pull from multiple sources. In some embodiments a canonical representation of all shows is stored in an open graph and the representation is agnostic of the channel of that show. The user is not required to know where the content is being sourced from or what channel is associated with the content. Instead the user may simply tap or otherwise select programming guide entry for a particular show and be presented with show page for the particular show as illustrated in and described below. In an embodiment the user may tap interactive button to be presented with show page . The user may then view information about the selected show and may select an option on show page to begin watching the show such as interactive watch button . The show will then be displayed on any client system such as the user s smart phone or a television TV of the user. In some embodiments an action edge in the open graph tracks how the content is being watched e.g. from Hulu Netflix cable etc. .

Programming guide includes programming guide entries e.g. programming guide entries in this example in certain embodiments. Programming guide entries may each be associated with a particular media content and may each display information associated with its corresponding media content in an embodiment. In some embodiments each programming guide entry may be associated with a recommended program. Each programming guide entry may include interactive button media content image social content e.g. social content in this example one or more user selectable options and airing time .

Interactive button may be associated with programming guide entry in particular embodiments. Interactive button may be any button operable to cause the social TV app to display a show page such as show page in response to a user selection of interactive button . For example a user may select interactive button to bring up a show page associated with the program In the City. Although interactive button is displayed in a particular configuration and in a particular location of programming guide entry interactive button may be displayed in any configuration such as a circular button or a square button and may be displayed in any location of programming guide entry .

Media content image may be any image or graphic associated with the media content of programming guide entry . In some embodiments media content image may be an image captured from video associated with the media of programming guide entry . For example media content image may be an image captured from the TV show In the City of programming guide entry . In some embodiments media content image may be a cover image provided by an entity associated with the media content of programming guide entry . For example if a particular movie studio produced the movie Take a Chance of programming guide entry the movie studio may provide or otherwise indicate to social networking system a particular image to use as a cover image for the movie. Social networking system may then access the cover image and use it as media content image to represent the movie in programming guide .

Social content is any social content associated with the media content of programming guide entry that is determined by social networking system from social graph . In some embodiments social content may include an indication of how many other users of social networking system have viewed liked or posted comments about the media content of programming guide entry . Consider the example programming guide entry of . In this example the media content of programming guide entry is a TV show called Easy Street. Social networking system may query social graph and determine that twenty six of the user s friends have liked the TV show Easy Street. Social content of programming guide entry which reads FRIEND A and other friends like this show may then be generated and displayed proximate to media content image for Easy Street. In another example social networking system may query social graph and determine that over 2 200 other users have liked Easy Street. Social content which reads 2.2 k LIKES may then be generated and displayed proximate to media content image for Easy Street. In some embodiments social content may also include a facepile . Facepile may include for example images icons or avatars of other users e.g. friends of social networking system who have liked the media content of programming guide entry as determined using social graph .

User selectable options are any options that permit a user to perform one or more actions associated with programming guide entry . For example user selectable options may include options that the user may select to indicate that he likes the media content of programming guide entry or to comment about the media content of programming guide entry . Once selected user selectable options may cause any appropriate action within social networking system . For example if a user selects user selectable option to like the media content of programming guide entry i.e. Easy Street an edge may be added to social graph to indicate that the user likes Easy Street. 

User selectable options may include other options such as record and remind in an embodiment. For example RECORD may be included as a user selectable option in programming guide entry and may cause once selected by a user instructions to be sent to another device such as a DVR to record the media content of programming guide entry . In some embodiments a primary action may also be established for each programming guide entry e.g. watch again watch record etc. using user selectable options .

As another example REMIND may be included as a user selectable option in programming guide entry and may cause once selected by a user a notification to be sent to the user when the media content of programming guide entry is about to begin. A WATCH button may be presented to the user to automatically start the show on the user s TV when the user selects the button in certain embodiments.

In some embodiments the social TV app determines what and when to notify the user of recommended programs. The social TV app may determine this using recommendations trending programs programs promoted by a network the user liked user likes of an article about the program user likes of an actor in a program etc. In some embodiments the social TV app or social networking system determines where to send the notifications and reminders. For example if it is determined that the user is currently using his smartphone a notification may be sent to the user s smartphone. In some embodiments when a user receives a notification that a friend is currently watching a program a WATCH button appears in the user s newsfeed which when selected starts the program on the user s TV.

Airing time is any indication of the times in which the media content of programming guide entry may be viewed. For example airing time of programming guide entry indicates that the movie In the City will begin at 1 00 PM and end at 3 00 PM. As another example airing time of programming guide entry indicates that the TV show Easy Street will begin at 2 00 PM and end at 2 30 PM.

Programming guide may include a recommendations feed in certain embodiments. In certain embodiments the recommendations feed displays recommended programs based on social context for the particular user. For example social networking system may determine recommended programs for the user based on likes of the user e.g. an explicit signal that the user likes the program likes of the friends of the user total likes from all users of social networking system comments of the user or the user s friends tastes of people who have liked the program trending programs programs that have similar genres to programs the user has liked and programs that are promoted by a network that the user likes. In certain embodiments the content in the recommendations feed is determined according to the methods described in FIGS. 25 26 and associated text in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 602 011 which is herein incorporated by reference as an example and not by way of limitation.

The recommendations feed in the social TV app displays what is currently on i.e. what programs are currently available to view as well as programs that are coming on soon e.g. within the half hour hour day week etc. in certain embodiments. In some embodiments the recommendations feed includes recommendations for recorded content e.g. on a DVR on demand content and pay per view content not just channels that are available from the STB. In certain embodiments the social TV app displays the number of likes for programs e.g. the user s likes friends likes total likes etc. who has liked the program and who is currently watching the program. In certain embodiments media content and social content displayed in the social TV app are actionable. For example the number of likes for programs e.g. the user s likes friends likes total likes etc. who has liked the program who is currently watching the program etc. are each actionable e.g. the user may click on the indication to view more information chat with the displayed user bring up another page etc. . As another example each media content may be clicked so that the user may watch the media content e.g. change the channel to watch the media content or get more information about the media content. In certain embodiments the social TV app may be a full screen app or a hybrid.

Recommendations for the show feed in the social TV app may be based on positive and negative feedback in an embodiment. For example a program may receive positive feedback and thus may appear in the user s show feed if the user likes the program if the user watches the program if the user indicates he wants to watch the program if the user comments about the program and the like. As another example negative feedback may be applied to programs in some situations. For example the following situations may result in negative feedback for a program and thus may remove the program from the user s feed or move it lower in the feed 

The social TV app may determine that a user does not have access to a certain program or channel e.g. the user s cable subscription does not include the channel and thus may lower the weighting for the channel in some embodiments. As a result the program or channel may be lowered on the user s show feed or removed altogether. In some embodiments the user can create a blacklist of shows programs channels genres etc. that the user does not want to see in his recommendations feed. For example the user may indicate to the social TV app that he does not want to see any sports channels any Spanish channels any pornography or any other particular content or channel.

Recommendations for the show feed in the social TV app may be time based recommendations e.g. based on the MSO in certain embodiments. In some embodiments sponsored content may be included in the recommendations feed. For example a network may pay to include certain programs in users show feeds.

The social TV app requests a recommended list of shows for a particular user from a server of social networking system in particular embodiments. The server may then send a list of recommended programs along with metadata e.g. title social context etc. in one fetch. In some embodiments the recommendations may be paginated e.g. programs 1 10 programs 11 20 etc. . In some embodiments a linkage may exist between the sets so that only one session between client system and the server is required.

The social TV app may be integrated with the user s DVR or STB as discussed more fully below in certain embodiments. For example an indication such as record this for me may be presented next to a program in the social TV app. Once selected the social TV app may send instructions to the DVR or STB to record the show. In certain embodiments methods such as those described in reference to FIGS. 6 7 and associated text in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 602 011 which is herein incorporated by reference as an example and not by way of limitation may be utilized to send instructions to the DVR or STB.

Programming guide may not automatically update to avoid confusing the user in an embodiment. Instead programming guide may include update action button which may require some user interaction to update programming guide . In an embodiment update action button is operable to cause social networking system to update programming guide . Update action button is a visual indication that a user action may be required to update programming guide in certain embodiments. For example programming guide may display a message that indicates that the user may select update action button to update programming guide such as Tap Here To Update Feed. In some embodiments the user action is a touch input on a mobile device or client system .

Programming guide may automatically update in some embodiments. In an embodiment programming guide is automatically updated after a certain amount of time has passed since the last update. For example programming guide may automatically update after a half hour an hour a day or any other time period after the last update. In another embodiment programming guide is silently updated if it is inactive for a certain amount of time. For example if a user has not interacted with programming guide within the past half hour programming guide may be automatically updated. In yet other embodiments programming guide is automatically updated a certain amount of time before each half hour. As an example programming guide may be automatically updated five minutes before the top or bottom of the hour. In some embodiments programming guide is updated if the user scrolls down a certain amount in programming guide . For example programming guide may be updated if the user scrolls down ten shows.

Programming guide may visually fade down while programming guide is being updated and visually fade up after programming guide is updated in an embodiment. After programming guide visually fades up programming guide may provide the user with newly recommended media content. In some embodiments other portions of the social TV app or other apps may utilize the disclosed logic to update any temporal content. For example show times for movies may be updated according to the disclosed logic.

As an example embodiment of operation programming guide may present the user with programming guide entries . Programming guide may also display update action button that displays to the user Tap Here to Update Feed. To avoid user confusion programming guide may not automatically update itself. Instead the user may tap update action button which causes the social TV app to update the entries in programming guide . When the user selects update action button programming guide may visually fade down while it updates and visually fade back up with newly recommended programs after the update is complete.

In step at least a portion of the available media content from step is provided for display in a programming guide on a display device of a user. In an embodiment the programming guide includes a plurality of entries such as entries . Each of the entries may be associated with particular available media content such as a program movie or game. For example entry is associated with the program In the City. As another example entry is associated with Easy Street. In some embodiments the display device is a smart phone tablet TV or any other client system . In this manner the user is able to quickly determine what media content is available to watch by reviewing each of the plurality of entries that are associated with a particular media content.

In step it is determined that an update action button should be displayed on the display device. An update action button may be displayed whenever the programming guide is displayed in certain embodiments. For example if the user opens the programming guide in the social TV app the update action button may be displayed when the programming guide is loaded. In some embodiments the update action button is update action button described above.

In step the update action button is provided for display on the display device when it is determined in step that the update action button should be displayed. In some embodiments the update action button may include a visual indication that the user may select the update action button to update the programming guide. For example the update action button may include a message indicating that a user may Tap Here To Update Feed. Although a particular example configuration of an update action button is illustrated any visual indication that the user may perform some input to update the programming guide is suitable. In an embodiment update action button is operable to cause the social networking system to update the programming guide in response to a user selection.

In step the programming guide is updated in response to a user selection of the update action button. In an embodiment the user selection is a touch input on the display device. For example the user may tap the update action button. Although particular touch inputs are discussed any touch input on or near the update action button is suitable. In some embodiments the programming guide fades down while it is updating and fades up with newly recommended media content after it has updated. For example once a user selects update action button programming guide may fade down and display at least one newly recommended show.

Method may additionally include querying a social graph of the social networking system for social content associated with the available media content and one or more users of the social networking system in certain embodiments. In some embodiments the social graph is social graph and includes a plurality of nodes and edges connecting the nodes the nodes comprising user nodes that are each associated with a particular user of the social networking system. Method may also include providing at least a portion of the queried social content from the social graph for display along with the available media content on the display device. In some embodiments the social content is one or more of an indication of a number of other users of the social networking system who have viewed the available media content an indication of a number of other users of the social networking system who have liked the available media content an indication of a number of other users of the social networking system who have shared the available media content an indication of a number of comments about the available media content or a facepile.

In some embodiments method may include determining using social content from social graph and the available media content determined in step a plurality of social coefficients for the user. The social coefficients may then be used to determine recommended media content for the user. At least a portion of the recommended media content may then be provided for display in the programming guide on the display device.

Particular embodiments may repeat one or more steps of the method of where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular steps of the method of as occurring in a particular order this disclosure contemplates any suitable steps of the method of occurring in any suitable order. Moreover although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular components devices or systems carrying out particular steps of the method of this disclosure contemplates any suitable combination of any suitable components devices or systems carrying out any suitable steps of the method of .

In step one or more questions are provided for display on a display device of the user. In an embodiment a setup wizard questionnaire provides questions for display to the user to determine the user s current subscription information. For example the wizard may ask the user Do you get HBO In some embodiments the wizard may ask follow up questions. For example if the user indicates that he does not get HBO then the wizard may prompt the user We don t think you get these channels either. Do you get these 

In step one or more answers to the one or more questions are received. In an embodiment one answer may indicate that the user does not subscribe to a particular channel. For example the social TV app may receive an answer indicating that the user does not get HBO. As another example the social TV app may receive an answer confirming that the user does not get certain channels.

In step a media subscription of the user is determined based on the one or more answers. For example if the user answers that he does not get HBO and the list of available packages from the MSO indicates that HBO is available on all packages except for the basic cable package the social TV app may determine that the user has the basic cable package. In another embodiment the social TV app may determine a list of other media content that the user does not subscribe to based on an indication that the user does not subscribe to a particular channel. For example if the user indicates that he does not get HBO then the social TV app may determine a list of other channels that the user likely does not get. In that example the social TV app may provide an interactive prompt for display on the display device operable configured to confirm that the user does not subscribe to the list of other media content. For example the social ITV app may provide a prompt stating We don t think you get these channels either. Do you get these Based on the user s answer the social TV app can determine the user s media subscription.

Method may additionally include determining unavailable media content based on the media subscription. In an embodiment the social TV app may determine the programs or channels that are unavailable under the user s subscription. For example the social TV app may determine that a user s basic cable package does not include channels and above. Method may also include providing at least a portion of the unavailable media content for display in the programming guide on the display device so that at least one of the entries in the programming guide is associated with unavailable media content. For example the entries associated with the unavailable media content may include a visual indication that the media content is unavailable under the user s subscription. In that example the visual indication may be a black out of the unavailable media content in the programming guide. In another embodiment at least one of the entries associated with the unavailable media content is provided for display below at least one entry associated with available media content in the programming guide. In other words the unavailable media content may be pushed lower in the programming guide.

Method may also include providing an interactive feature associated with the unavailable media content for display on the display device. For example the unavailable media content may be put behind a paywall. In that example the paywall may present a visual indication allowing the user to take some action to subscribe to the channel such as Click here to subscribe. By selecting the indication the user may be presented with the option to purchase a subscription to the unavailable media content for a certain amount of time. For example the user may purchase the subscription for a single viewing of a program a day a week a month or any other time period.

Particular embodiments may repeat one or more steps of the method of where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular steps of the method of as occurring in a particular order this disclosure contemplates any suitable steps of the method of occurring in any suitable order. Moreover although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular components devices or systems carrying out particular steps of the method of this disclosure contemplates any suitable combination of any suitable components devices or systems carrying out any suitable steps of the method of .

At sign on screen shown in a user may enter the user s login information for the social TV app. In some embodiments the social TV app may utilize single sign on so that a user may quickly log in. For example the social TV app may present the user with interactive button which may allow the user to enter a user input to login without entering any credentials if the user has previously entered login information. The social TV app may also present the user with second interactive button which allows the user to access a login screen if the user is not the user whose sign on information is stored. Some embodiments may present various other interactive buttons such as third interactive button which allows for a user to sign up for a social media account e.g. Facebook or fourth interactive button which allows a user to access a help center.

Once the user logs in content provider selection screen may be presented to the user as illustrated in in certain embodiments. In an embodiment content provider selection screen may provide various interactive buttons. For example interactive button allows the user to enter a new zip code which may result in the presentation of different providers. As another example interactive buttons can each be associated with a particular content provider such as interactive buttons that each correspond to a different provider. Content provider selection screen may allow the user to choose a content provider for the user s current location in certain embodiments. For example the user may select a particular MSO or OTT content provider.

Once the user selects a content provider location selection screen may be provided for display as illustrated in in certain embodiments. In an embodiment location selection screen may provide interactive buttons each associated with a particular location e.g. New York Dallas Palo Alto etc. . A user may select their location by touching any of the interactive buttons corresponding to the user s location in an embodiment.

Channel changer setup screen which is illustrated in is displayed in certain embodiments. Channel changer setup screen allows the user to configure the social TV app to change channels on a STB automatically in an embodiment. Channel changer setup screen includes popup box and interactive buttons and in some embodiments. The social TV app may utilize a standard plug n play protocol to discover all available STBs in certain embodiments. Social TV app may present popup box to the user to control discovered STBs. For example the social TV app may display the message We have discovered these STBs. Would you like to use one to control As another example the social TV app may display the message Would you like to configure the app to change your channel automatically In some embodiments the social TV app may defer the decision to setup an STB for a later time. For example the social TV app may present the user an option to defer setup such as interactive button that corresponds to a Not Now option. If the user elects to control a STB such as by clicking on interactive button that corresponds to a Setup option the social TV app may present the user with the user s content provider s login screen in an embodiment.

Content provider login screen illustrated in includes text entry areas in an embodiment. Text entry areas may allow a user to enter login information. Once the user enters the correct login information the user may be presented with a confirmation screen in some embodiments.

Confirmation screen illustrated in includes confirmation button and cancel button in an embodiment. Confirmation button allows a user to confirm that the user wishes to use the app in an embodiment. Cancel button allows the user to choose not to proceed with using the social TV app. After confirming that the user wishes to use the social TV app the user may be presented with set top box selection screen in an embodiment.

Set top box selection screen illustrated in includes interactive button in an embodiment. Interactive button may be associated with a particular set top box in a particular location. For example the button may display a visual indication that the button is associated with a set top box in the living room of the user s current location. Once the user confirms which set top box that the user wants to control show feed is provided for display on a display device of the user. In some embodiments show feed may be programming guide described above.

In an embodiment social content from social networking system may indicate who is currently watching the program who likes the program their current presence and any other information about other users. For example show page may display an indication that Colin is currently watching this program. In an embodiment social content may display everyone who is currently watching the show and may remove users from the list when they quit watching the show.

Show information is displayed with show page in an embodiment. Show information may include episode or movie information a description of the program a time when the program started a time when the program ends or how much time is remaining in the program. For example show information may display the episode number in a season of a program such as Episode 1 as illustrated in . As another example show information may include details about the program in general or details about the particular episode such as The cast explores the city and finds various surprises. 

Visual indicator may be displayed with show page in an embodiment. Visual indicator may indicate what time a program started what time the program ends a percent completion of the program or a time remaining in the program. For example visual indicator may be a progress bar that provides a visual indication of how much of the show remains. As another example visual indicator may display that the program started at 5 30 P.M. and ends at 6 00 P.M.

Interactive watch button is displayed with show page in certain embodiments. Interactive watch button may allow the user to switch to the program shown in show page to watch the program. For example a user may select interactive watch button to switch from a program that the user is currently watching to In the City. In some embodiments the social TV app may show the next content for the particular channel in the last few minutes of a program e.g. the last five minutes . For example the social TV app may display a show page corresponding to programming guide entry associated with the program Easy Street at 1 55 P.M which is five minutes before the start time of Easy Street. The user may then select an interactive watch button on the show page for Easy Street to switch from the program the user is watching to Easy Street. 

Plurality of thumbnails may be displayed with show page in some embodiments. Social TV app may provide a multiview presentation of programs such as thumbnails that allows the user to quickly switch between two or more shows in some embodiments. Thumbnails may each be operable to change from media content that the user is currently watching to media content that the user previously watched e.g. the media content corresponding to the thumbnail that the user selected . For example if the user is currently watching the show In the City and the user selects thumbnail which represents the program The Track the social TV app would switch from the program In the City to The Track. 

Each of thumbnails may be a visual indication representing media content that the user previously viewed. For example if the user previously watched the program Airtime one of thumbnails may correspond to Airtime. In an embodiment the visual indication includes information associated with the media content that the user previously viewed. Generally the information may include a logo representing the program text a score of a game an amount of time remaining in a game information about the program or any other information associated with the media content. For example if a user is switching back and forth between four football games each football game may be represented by a thumbnail or card that includes information such as the score of the game the amount of time left in the game etc.

Thumbnails may be displayed in response to a user input in some embodiments. For example thumbnails may be displayed in response to a touch input on the display device. As another example thumbnails may be displayed in response to the user double tapping a home button on the display device. In another embodiment thumbnails may be provided for display in a tray on the display device. For example thumbnails may be displayed in a tray at the bottom of the display device in a horizontal row. In yet another embodiment thumbnails may be provided for display in a carousel of thumbnails on the display device.

The social TV app allows the user to comment on more than one show at a time in an embodiment. In some embodiments the social TV app retains context about all shows being watched and allows the user to still comment on a show he just switched away from. For example if the user switched from watching In the City to The Track the user may still comment on In the City. In that example the social TV app may provide an entry area for display on the display device that is operable to allow the user to generate a comment on the media content previously viewed while the user is currently watching a different media content.

In some embodiments the social TV app may determine if a program is over. For example many programs such as sporting events may run longer than their allotted time slot. When this occurs certain embodiments of the social TV app may ask the user for confirmation that the program is over. For example the methods described in reference to FIGS. 13 14 and the associated text of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 602 011 which is herein incorporated by reference as an example and not by way of limitation may be used to determine if the show is over.

Message indication may be displayed with show page in an embodiment. Message indication may provide an indication that the users who are currently watching the show are messageable in certain embodiments. For example message indication may display another user s profile picture along with a text entry box such as comment area that allows the user to type a message that is sent to the other user. In other embodiments show page may display who has watched the show in the past and if they are messageable.

Comment area may be displayed with show page in particular embodiments. Comment area may allow a user to post a comment about a show or message another user that is currently watching the show. For example a user may type a message to another user in comment area using keyboard .

In step an indication that the user selected the particular thumbnail is received. For example the social TV app or social networking system may receive an indication that the user selected thumbnail corresponding to the program Take a Chance. 

In step one or more instructions to change from media content that the user is currently watching to the media content that the user previously viewed e.g. the previously viewed media content associated with the particular thumbnail that the user selected are provided. For example the social TV app may provide an instruction to a STB to change from In the City to Take a Chance after the user selected the thumbnail associated with Take a Chance. 

As an example embodiment of operation a plurality of thumbnails may be displayed on a display device of the user. Each of the thumbnails may correspond to a program that the user previously watched and may be operable to change to that program from a program that the user is currently watching. Once the user selects a particular thumbnail the social TV app or social networking system may receive an indication that the user selected the thumbnail. The social TV app may then switch from the program the user is currently watching to the program corresponding to the selected thumbnail. In this manner the user can quickly switch between programs that the user previously watched.

Particular embodiments may repeat one or more steps of the method of where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular steps of the method of as occurring in a particular order this disclosure contemplates any suitable steps of the method of occurring in any suitable order. Moreover although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular components devices or systems carrying out particular steps of the method of this disclosure contemplates any suitable combination of any suitable components devices or systems carrying out any suitable steps of the method of .

Settings button may be displayed with story in an embodiment. Settings button may be an interactive button operable to change options or privacy settings for publishing in certain embodiments. Settings button may be operable to remove a publication that the user does not want displayed to other users in some embodiments. For example after story published the user may touch interactive settings button to change publication settings including removing story

Social content may be displayed with story in an embodiment. Social content may include interactive buttons operable to Share a publication or Like a publication. For example a user may share that the user is currently watching the program Pep by clicking the Share. As another example the user may indicate that the user likes that Friend C is watching the program In the City by clicking the Like button associated with story

The social TV app does not immediately publish that the user is watching a program as soon as the user selects the program to watch in certain embodiments. In some embodiments the social TV app employs time delayed publishing. After a user switches to a program the social TV app may log that the user selected the program to watch and then start a count down timer in an embodiment. Once the timer reaches zero the social TV app may publish that the user is watching the program subject to the user s privacy settings. For example if the user watched Airtime for more than a predetermined period of time then story may be published indicating that the user watched Airtime. However if the user quickly clicked away then story may not be published in certain embodiments. In some embodiments a window of time is given so that the user can change options or privacy settings for publishing that they are watching or have watched a program. For example story may include settings button which may be operable to allow the user to change options or privacy settings for publishing that the user is watching or has watched Airtime. In that example if story has already published the user may altogether remove story

In some embodiments the social TV app will always publish but will publish with only me privacy unless shared. In other words the only user that will see the publication is the user that watched the program. However if the user shares the publication such as by touching a Share button then the publication will be published so that other users e.g. the user s friends of the social TV app may see the publication.

Social TV app may utilize logic to determine intentional versus nonintentional watches. In an embodiment if a user starts watching a program and then clicks away quickly e.g. within a predetermined amount of time such as ten seconds the social TV app may infer that the user made a mistake. In that embodiment the social TV app may not publish that the user watched or is watching the program. For example if the user was quickly changing through channels and stopped on Airtime for a few seconds but then switched channels to Pep the social TV app would determine that the user did not intend to watch Airtime. In that example the social TV app would not publish story . Social TV app may utilize a mistake timeout that is smaller than the publish timeout in certain embodiments. For example if the publish timeout is thirty seconds then the mistake timeout may be ten seconds. When the mistake timeout is smaller than the publish timeout nonintentional watches are prevented from publishing. Although particular mistake and publish timeouts were mentioned above any suitable timeout periods may be used.

In step a determination that the user intended to watch the program is made. In an embodiment step includes starting a timer in response to receiving the indication in step and inferring that the user intended to watch the program when an amount of time on the timer equals or exceeds a predetermined amount of time. For example if the user watches a particular channel for more than fifteen seconds then the social TV app may infer that the user intended to watch that channel. However if the user quickly changed the channel such as within three seconds then the social TV app may infer that the user did not intend to watch the channel. For example if the user was quickly flipping channels and passed Airtime and In the City then the social TV app may infer that the user did not intend to watch Airtime or In the City. 

In step a story is generated in response to the determination of step . In some embodiments a story may be a post indicating that the user watched or is currently watching a program. For example the story may be story indicating that the User watched Airtime. In another embodiment a story may be an advertisement of the program. For example the story may be story indicating that the User is watching this show now. Do you want to join him A story may be generated by the social TV app or social networking system in an embodiment.

In step the story is published to the social networking system a predetermined amount of time after receiving the indication in step subject to the user s privacy settings. In an embodiment step includes logging that the user clicked on the show and starting a count down timer. Once the count down timer times out e.g. reaches zero the social TV app may publish the story. In an embodiment the predetermined amount of time may be thirty seconds. In other embodiments the predetermined amount of time may be any suitable time period. However in certain embodiments the predetermined amount of time for publication e.g. the publication timeout exceeds the predetermined amount of time for determining that the user intended to watch the program e.g. the mistake timeout .

Method may additionally include providing an option for display on a display device operable to allow the user to change a privacy setting after a story is published to the social networking system. For example the user may be presented with a window of time that allows the user to change options or privacy settings for publication of stories which may include altogether removing posted stories. Method may also include removing the published story upon receiving an indication that the user wants the story removed in an embodiment. For example if the user alters the privacy settings the published story may be removed.

As an example embodiment of operation the social TV app or social networking system may receive an indication that the user watched at least a portion of a program. The social TV app may determine that the user intended to watch the program such as by measuring how much time the user watched the program and comparing that time against a predetermined threshold amount of time. Once it is determined that the user intended to watch the program the social TV app or social networking system may generate a story indicating that the user watched or is watching the program. The social TV app may then publish the story to the social networking system a predetermined amount of time after receiving the indication that the user watched the program. In this manner the social TV app may employ time delayed publication in some embodiments.

Particular embodiments may repeat one or more steps of the method of where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular steps of the method of as occurring in a particular order this disclosure contemplates any suitable steps of the method of occurring in any suitable order. Moreover although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular components devices or systems carrying out particular steps of the method of this disclosure contemplates any suitable combination of any suitable components devices or systems carrying out any suitable steps of the method of .

Search bar may be displayed with search tool in some embodiments. Search bar may be any text entry box suitable for entering search queries in an embodiment. A user may search for available media content to view by entering text into search bar using keyboard in certain embodiments. For example if the user wants to search for the program In the City the user can type In the City and search results may be displayed. In certain embodiments the user may search by title actor sports team or any other information. Searches may be conducted on a server of social networking system for content that will be on in the upcoming weeks in certain embodiments. For example the user may search for content that will be on in the next two weeks or any other time period. In other embodiments a search may be conducted for any program in a database whether it is on in the next few weeks or not. In certain embodiments a flag may be set to perform some action when the searched program pops up again. The user may select an option to record the show on a DVR in an embodiment. Notifications and reminders may be sent for searched content in some embodiments.

Search results may be displayed by search tool as visual indications associated with the search result in particular embodiments. In an embodiment each visual indication may be a logo representing the program or text associated with the program. For example the visual indication corresponding to search result may be the text In the City which is the name of the program. Although search results are displayed in a particular configuration any particular configuration of search results may be used.

Show information may be displayed in some embodiments. Show information may include a title of the show or other details of the show. For example show information may include details regarding the particular program such as what In the City is about.

Social content may be displayed in some embodiments. Social content may include a number of other users that have watched the program. Social content may also display each user that has watched the program. For example social content may display the users in a facepile.

Record button may be displayed in certain embodiments. Record button is generally an interactive button that allows the user to record a program such as on a DVR in some embodiments. For example the social TV app may display record button along with a particular search result that allows the user to select record button to record the program associated with the particular search result such as In the City. 

Genre filter grid allows the user to filer the recommended show feed according to a particular genre in an embodiment. Genre filter grid may provide the user with a plurality of interactive genre buttons in certain embodiments. Each of interactive genre buttons may be operable to filter the recommended show feed according to the genre corresponding to the selected button. For example if the user only wants sports programming to appear on the recommended show feed the user may select interactive genre button corresponding to sports. Although interactive genre buttons are shown with certain genres any genres may be used in genre filter grid .

Filter tool may include search bar in an embodiment. Search bar may allow the user to search for media content by title actor sports team or any other information as described above in reference to .

Entity information may include a name of the entity e.g. a team name a contestant name etc. in certain embodiments. In other embodiments entity information may include a profile image a photo or a logo associated with the entity. For example if Team 1 is playing Team 2 shown on television social TV app may display entity information as Team 1 and entity information as Team 2. Alternatively the social TV app may display logos associated with Team 1 and Team 2 as entity information and respectively as another example. As yet another example the social TV app may provide photos of the final four contestants on a game show.

In an embodiment the social TV app may differentiate between social context such as by displaying social content associated with each entity. For example the social TV app may display social content associated with Team 1 and social content associated with Team 2. Social content may indicate a number of friends that are fans of each particular entity. For example social content may indicate that forty five friends are fans of Team 1 while social content may indicate that five friends are fans of Team 1. In an embodiment entity information and social content may be displayed on the recommendations feed on client device . In other embodiments entity information and social content may be overlaid on television e.g. over the displayed media content or any other display device.

For programs having multiple physical entities an MSO may provide the names of the entities in an embodiment. For example the MSO may have a database indicating the names of the various entities involved in a particular program such as the names of teams participating in a game e.g. Team 1 and Team 2 in . In some embodiments the social TV app may access the entity information from the MSO. For example the social TV app may access MSO data that is stored in a database. As another example the social TV app may access MSO data that is stored in multiple databases e.g. programs database incremental updates database list of MSO head ends by zip database database that lists linkage between programs and head ends etc. .

In step information indicative of the plurality of entities is accessed. The social TV app may access entity information in at least one MSO database which may have information indicating the names of the entities a photo of each entity or a logo of each entity in certain embodiments. In an embodiment MSO databases may include a programs database incremental updates database a list of MSO head ends by zip database a database that lists linkage between programs and head ends or any other MSO database that may include entity information. In another embodiment the social TV app may itself have entity information such as photos of the final four contestants of a game show.

In step a social graph of the social networking system is queried for social content associated with each of the plurality of entities and one or more users of the social networking system in certain embodiments. In some embodiments the social graph is social graph and includes a plurality of nodes and edges connecting the nodes the nodes comprising user nodes that are each associated with a particular user of the social networking system.

In step at least a portion of the queried social content from the social graph is provided for display along with the information indicative of the entities on the display device. In some embodiments the social content includes a number of other users of the social networking system who have liked one of the entities. In an embodiment the entity information and the social content is provided for display in the recommendations feed on a display device of the user. The entity information and the social content may be displayed on client system in an embodiment. In other embodiments the entity information and the social content is overlaid on television such as on top of the media content that the entities appear in.

As an example embodiment of operation media content being viewed by a user is determined to have multiple entities such as a sports game with multiple teams. The social TV app or social networking system may access information indicative of the teams such as by accessing an MSO database. The social TV app or social networking system may query a social graph for social content associated with the teams such as how many users like each team. The entity information such as the name of the teams or a logo of each team may then be displayed on a display device along with the social content. In this manner a user may quickly see what entities are involved along with related social content.

Particular embodiments may repeat one or more steps of the method of where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular steps of the method of as occurring in a particular order this disclosure contemplates any suitable steps of the method of occurring in any suitable order. Moreover although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular components devices or systems carrying out particular steps of the method of this disclosure contemplates any suitable combination of any suitable components devices or systems carrying out any suitable steps of the method of .

Page may be any page associated with a particular version of media content. For example a page may include a webpage or a profile page. Some media content has multiple versions each having an associated page . For example multiple versions may include an episode a season a series a movie or any other version. As an example as shown in show 1 may have multiple versions of content such as multiple episodes and multiple seasons. Each episode may be associated with a page such as pages . Additionally each season may be associated with a page such as pages . Show 1 may also have main page that is associated with all versions of the content of show 1.

Main page may be the most liked page e.g. the page with the most user likes associated with the content in some embodiments. For example if there are ten pages associated with show 1 and one page has fifty likes more than any other page that page may be determined to be main page . In another embodiment main page may be a Wikipedia page for the media content. In that embodiment the Wikipedia page may be set as main page when the main page cannot otherwise be determined such as by analyzing how many likes the various pages associated with the media content have.

Once a user likes a page associated with a particular version of show 1 such as page associated with episode 1 then the social TV app or social networking system may aggregate the user s like of page to main page . Additionally all likes for any of the pages associated with any of the episodes or seasons of show 1 may be aggregated to main page . In an embodiment aggregating a user s likes of pages to a main page includes applying the user s likes to the main page. For example if the user likes five pages associated with a main page the social TV app may move those five likes to the main page. In another embodiment aggregating a user s likes of pages to a main page includes applying the user s various likes of the pages to the main page and removing all of the user s likes of all pages except the main page. Thus aggregating likes to a main page moves the user s likes of various other pages to the main page in some embodiments.

In general some media content may have a character that is associated with multiple versions of the media content. For example there may be multiple programs related to Batman e.g. multiple movies TV shows etc. . When a user likes any one of the shows related to Batman the like may be aggregated to the main page e.g. the meta page for Batman. in the same manner as above. In an embodiment media content may include media content from an STB a DVR an OTT content provider or an MSO. In some embodiments media content may include pay per view media content or on demand media content.

All of the likes associated with a particular version of media content are de duped in some embodiments. In other words when a user likes multiple versions of the same content a single like is applied to the main page of the program in an embodiment. For example if a user likes page associated with episode 1 of show 1 and also likes page associated with season 1 of show 1 then both of the likes may be aggregated into a single like for main page of show 1. In some embodiments the likes of pages other than the main page are removed. For example the likes associated with page and page in the last example may be removed.

In step it is determined from the social graph that a user likes a first page associated with a particular version of media content. Step may include querying social graph for all of the user s likes. For example social TV app may determine that the user has liked a page associated with season 1 of show 1 such as page

In step it is determined that one or more other versions of the media content exist. For example social TV app may determine that there are multiple episodes and seasons of show 1. In an embodiment some of the one or more versions of media content each have their own page. For example every episode and season of show 1 may be associated with a page such as pages 

In step it is determined that a main page is associated with the particular version of media content that the user liked and the one or more other versions of the media content that exist. Step may include determining a number of likes for each page that is associated with the media content. For example step may include analyzing how many likes pages may have. Step may additionally include assigning a page having the most likes as the main page. For example if page has more likes than pages then page may be assigned as main page . In some embodiments if a main page cannot be determined then the Wikipedia page for the media content may be assigned as the main page.

In step the user s like of the first page is aggregated to the main page. For example the user s like of page may be aggregated to main page . Additionally any other likes of pages may be aggregated to main page .

Method may further include determining that the user likes more than one page associated with the media content. For example Method may determine that the user has liked pages and . Method may also include removing all likes of the user associated with each page except the main page. In the above example method may remove the likes of pages and and apply a single like to main page .

As an example embodiment of operation a social graph may be accessed to determine that a user likes a first page associated with a particular version of media content such as In the City 1. The social TV app may also determine that one or more other versions of the media content exist and each version has an associated page such as In the City 2 and In the City 3 which may each have a corresponding page. The social TV app may determine that a main page is associated with all of the versions of the content such as a main profile page for In the City. The social TV app may then aggregate the user s like of In the City 1 to the main profile page for In the City. In some embodiments the social TV app may also remove the user s likes of In the City 1. 

Particular embodiments may repeat one or more steps of the method of where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular steps of the method of as occurring in a particular order this disclosure contemplates any suitable steps of the method of occurring in any suitable order. Moreover although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular components devices or systems carrying out particular steps of the method of this disclosure contemplates any suitable combination of any suitable components devices or systems carrying out any suitable steps of the method of .

In some embodiments the social TV app may allow live voting for content to be displayed on a TV. For example in public spaces such as a bar or the airport users may use the social TV app to vote for what will be shown in the next block of time on a nearby TV. This may allow a show that will be viewed by the most people to be shown on the TV.

In some embodiments the social TV app provides cross app linking from newsfeed units and notifications to watch a show. For example an app of social networking system or any other third party app running on client system may be linked to the social TV app. The app may bring up the social TV app e.g. a show page in the social TV app and or send instructions to the social TV app to control a particular STB. Some embodiments may provide a button in the user s newsfeed or a notification to interact with the social TV app to begin watching a show on the user s TV. For example a post may appear in the user s newsfeed that Eric just watched Gladiator along with a button. The user may push the button to watch Gladiator on any available service such as Netflix Comcast Hulu etc. In some embodiments if a friend watches content on one service e.g. DirecTV a button may appear in the social TV app for the user to watch the content on another service e.g. Netflix . In certain embodiments a user may invite friends to watch a show with the user i.e. social push .

In some embodiments it may be determined where to display a program. For example if the user s TV is on the social TV app may control the STB in order to display the program on the TV. In some embodiments if a TV is not available the program may be shown in a viewer in a browser or any other available display device.

In certain embodiments the social TV app determines whether there are multiple owners of a STB. For example a wife and a husband may both be owners of the STB. In some embodiments the social TV app permits certain users to have admin permissions for an STB. In some embodiments the social TV app distinguishes between owners and users. In certain embodiments all owners are users and have admin rights and the ability to add other users and admins for an STB. In some embodiments users are permitted to change the channel but nothing else.

In some embodiments the recommendations for the show feed may change if multiple owners are present. In some embodiments the recommendations for the show feed may be shared recommendations between all present users. In certain embodiments the content in the recommendations feed is determined according to the methods described in reference to FIGS. 25 and 26 and in the associated text of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 602 011 which is herein incorporated by reference as an example and not by way of limitation. In some embodiments the social TV app may infer that certain friends are present from messages Bluetooth Wi Fi and the like. In certain embodiments the social TV app may determine who is present using the methods described in reference to FIGS. 15 16 and associated text in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 602 011 which is herein incorporated by reference as an example and not by way of limitation.

In some embodiments the social TV app may take action to prevent a user s recommendations from becoming polluted. For example if a device such as an iPad is a shared device the social TV app may prevent the recommendations for a user of the iPad from polluting the recommendations of another user of the iPad. In another example the social TV app may prevent recommendations for a user s child from polluting the recommendations for the parent e.g. if the parent turns on a kid s show for his child the social TV app may detect this and prevent the kid s shows from polluting the recommendations for the parent . In some embodiments the social TV app may utilize a camera as a signal to prevent recommendations from becoming polluted.

In some embodiments the social TV app may auto detect which STB to control using location information. For example if a user has multiple STBs in his house the social TV app may utilize Wi Fi Bluetooth GPS sniffing correlation or any other appropriate method to determine the current location of the user in relation to the STBs in the house. In some embodiments the social TV app may select the nearest STB to the user to control. In some embodiments the social TV app may prompt the user to go to a room with an STB in order to learn where the STBs are located. In some embodiments if the location of the user changes the social TV app may auto switch to the nearest STB. In some embodiments the social TV app may learn which STB the user wants to control based on previous actions of the user e.g. when the user is at a certain location he wants to control a particular STB when it is a certain time of day the user wants to control a particular STB etc. . In some embodiments determining which STB to control and determining the user s location is subject to user privacy settings.

In some embodiments the social TV app provides peer to peer connectivity for controlling STBs. For example certain embodiments of the social TV app provide rules for permissions e.g. a rule could be if friends and friends of friends are local they are automatically allowed to also control the STB . In some embodiments STB connectivity information may be passed from one user to another.

In some embodiments the social TV app may run in the background on client system . In some embodiments when an STB is detected an icon subview for the social TV app may appear in a lock screen of client system . For example an icon may appear in the lock screen of an iPhone that allows the user to launch the social TV app and change the channel on his TV without unlocking his iPhone.

In some embodiments explicit reminders about a show may be sent to a user. For example a reminder may be sent to the user when a particular show is about to start. In some embodiments a button may be presented to the user to automatically start the show on the user s TV. In some embodiments a reminder is sent to the user when a show begins. In some embodiments the reminders and notifications may be presented in the user s newsfeed e.g. in the newsfeed presented in a browser on client system in a newsfeed presented in an app running on client system in a newsfeed on the user s desktop etc. . In some embodiments the reminders and notifications may be sent via email text messaging or any other push notification. In some embodiments the reminders and notifications may be presented on the user s TV screen. In some embodiments the reminders and notifications may be for any appropriate content. For example they may be provided when a new season is starting of a show that the user likes etc.

In some embodiments media content is aggregated across multiple platforms. For example if a particular program is available both on Netflix and on cable a single representation of that program may be presented to the user. In some embodiments the social TV app or social networking system determines the media content e.g. entity that the user wants to watch instead of how e.g. what channel the user wants to watch it on. In some embodiments a central aggregation point is provided that allows the social TV app or social networking system to pull from multiple ways to watch the content. In some embodiments a canonical representation of all shows in stored in the OG and the representation is agnostic of the channel of that show. In some embodiments an action edge in the OG tracks how the content is being watched e.g. from Hulu Netflix cable etc. . In some embodiments the recommendations feed includes recommendations for recorded content e.g. on a DVR on demand content and pay per view content not just channels that are available from the STB.

This disclosure contemplates any suitable number of computer systems . This disclosure contemplates computer system taking any suitable physical form. As example and not by way of limitation computer system may be an embedded computer system a system on chip SOC a single board computer system SBC such as for example a computer on module COM or system on module SOM a desktop computer system a laptop or notebook computer system an interactive kiosk a mainframe a mesh of computer systems a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a server a tablet computer system or a combination of two or more of these. Where appropriate computer system may include one or more computer systems be unitary or distributed span multiple locations span multiple machines span multiple data centers or reside in a cloud which may include one or more cloud components in one or more networks. Where appropriate one or more computer systems may perform without substantial spatial or temporal limitation one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. As an example and not by way of limitation one or more computer systems may perform in real time or in batch mode one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. One or more computer systems may perform at different times or at different locations one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein where appropriate.

In particular embodiments computer system includes a processor memory storage an input output I O interface a communication interface and a bus . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular computer system having a particular number of particular components in a particular arrangement this disclosure contemplates any suitable computer system having any suitable number of any suitable components in any suitable arrangement.

In particular embodiments processor includes hardware for executing instructions such as those making up a computer program. As an example and not by way of limitation to execute instructions processor may retrieve or fetch the instructions from an internal register an internal cache memory or storage decode and execute them and then write one or more results to an internal register an internal cache memory or storage . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal caches for data instructions or addresses. This disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal caches where appropriate. As an example and not by way of limitation processor may include one or more instruction caches one or more data caches and one or more translation lookaside buffers TLBs . Instructions in the instruction caches may be copies of instructions in memory or storage and the instruction caches may speed up retrieval of those instructions by processor . Data in the data caches may be copies of data in memory or storage for instructions executing at processor to operate on the results of previous instructions executed at processor for access by subsequent instructions executing at processor or for writing to memory or storage or other suitable data. The data caches may speed up read or write operations by processor . The TLBs may speed up virtual address translation for processor . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal registers for data instructions or addresses. This disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal registers where appropriate. Where appropriate processor may include one or more arithmetic logic units ALUs be a multi core processor or include one or more processors . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular processor this disclosure contemplates any suitable processor.

In particular embodiments memory includes main memory for storing instructions for processor to execute or data for processor to operate on. As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may load instructions from storage or another source such as for example another computer system to memory . Processor may then load the instructions from memory to an internal register or internal cache. To execute the instructions processor may retrieve the instructions from the internal register or internal cache and decode them. During or after execution of the instructions processor may write one or more results which may be intermediate or final results to the internal register or internal cache. Processor may then write one or more of those results to memory . In particular embodiments processor executes only instructions in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere and operates only on data in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere . One or more memory buses which may each include an address bus and a data bus may couple processor to memory . Bus may include one or more memory buses as described below. In particular embodiments one or more memory management units MMUs reside between processor and memory and facilitate accesses to memory requested by processor . In particular embodiments memory includes random access memory RAM . This RAM may be volatile memory where appropriate. Where appropriate this RAM may be dynamic RAM DRAM or static RAM SRAM . Moreover where appropriate this RAM may be single ported or multi ported RAM. This disclosure contemplates any suitable RAM. Memory may include one or more memories where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular memory this disclosure contemplates any suitable memory.

In particular embodiments storage includes mass storage for data or instructions. As an example and not by way of limitation storage may include a hard disk drive HDD a floppy disk drive flash memory an optical disc a magneto optical disc magnetic tape or a Universal Serial Bus USB drive or a combination of two or more of these. Storage may include removable or non removable or fixed media where appropriate. Storage may be internal or external to computer system where appropriate. In particular embodiments storage is non volatile solid state memory. In particular embodiments storage includes read only memory ROM . Where appropriate this ROM may be mask programmed ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable PROM EPROM electrically erasable PROM EEPROM electrically alterable ROM EAROM or flash memory or a combination of two or more of these. This disclosure contemplates mass storage taking any suitable physical form. Storage may include one or more storage control units facilitating communication between processor and storage where appropriate. Where appropriate storage may include one or more storages . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular storage this disclosure contemplates any suitable storage.

In particular embodiments I O interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication between computer system and one or more I O devices. Computer system may include one or more of these I O devices where appropriate. One or more of these I O devices may enable communication between a person and computer system . As an example and not by way of limitation an I O device may include a keyboard keypad microphone monitor mouse printer scanner speaker still camera stylus tablet touch screen trackball video camera another suitable I O device or a combination of two or more of these. An I O device may include one or more sensors. This disclosure contemplates any suitable I O devices and any suitable I O interfaces for them. Where appropriate I O interface may include one or more device or software drivers enabling processor to drive one or more of these I O devices. I O interface may include one or more I O interfaces where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular I O interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable I O interface.

In particular embodiments communication interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication such as for example packet based communication between computer system and one or more other computer systems or one or more networks. As an example and not by way of limitation communication interface may include a network interface controller NIC or network adapter for communicating with an Ethernet or other wire based network or a wireless NIC WNIC or wireless adapter for communicating with a wireless network such as a WI FI network. This disclosure contemplates any suitable network and any suitable communication interface for it. As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may communicate with an ad hoc network a personal area network PAN a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN or one or more portions of the Internet or a combination of two or more of these. One or more portions of one or more of these networks may be wired or wireless. As an example computer system may communicate with a wireless PAN WPAN such as for example a BLUETOOTH WPAN a WI FI network a WI MAX network a cellular telephone network such as for example a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM network or other suitable wireless network or a combination of two or more of these. Computer system may include any suitable communication interface for any of these networks where appropriate. Communication interface may include one or more communication interfaces where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular communication interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable communication interface.

In particular embodiments bus includes hardware software or both coupling components of computer system to each other. As an example and not by way of limitation bus may include an Accelerated Graphics Port AGP or other graphics bus an Enhanced Industry Standard Architecture EISA bus a front side bus FSB a HYPERTRANSPORT HT interconnect an Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus an INFINIBAND interconnect a low pin count LPC bus a memory bus a Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus a PCI Express PCIe bus a serial advanced technology attachment SATA bus a Video Electronics Standards Association local VLB bus or another suitable bus or a combination of two or more of these. Bus may include one or more buses where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular bus this disclosure contemplates any suitable bus or interconnect.

Herein a computer readable non transitory storage medium or media may include one or more semiconductor based or other integrated circuits ICs such as for example field programmable gate arrays FPGAs or application specific ICs ASICs hard disk drives HDDs hybrid hard drives HHDs optical discs optical disc drives ODDs magneto optical discs magneto optical drives floppy diskettes floppy disk drives FDDs magnetic tapes solid state drives SSDs RAM drives SECURE DIGITAL cards or drives any other suitable computer readable non transitory storage media or any suitable combination of two or more of these where appropriate. A computer readable non transitory storage medium may be volatile non volatile or a combination of volatile and non volatile where appropriate.

Herein or is inclusive and not exclusive unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore herein A or B means A B or both unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Moreover and is both joint and several unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore herein A and B means A and B jointly or severally unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context.

The scope of this disclosure encompasses all changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications to the example embodiments described or illustrated herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. The scope of this disclosure is not limited to the example embodiments described or illustrated herein. Moreover although this disclosure describes and illustrates respective embodiments herein as including particular components elements functions operations or steps any of these embodiments may include any combination or permutation of any of the components elements functions operations or steps described or illustrated anywhere herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. Furthermore reference in the appended claims to an apparatus or system or a component of an apparatus or system being adapted to arranged to capable of configured to enabled to operable to or operative to perform a particular function encompasses that apparatus system component whether or not it or that particular function is activated turned on or unlocked as long as that apparatus system or component is so adapted arranged capable configured enabled operable or operative.

