---

title: User-specified distribution of stories describing user actions in a social networking system
abstract: A social networking system receives a sponsored story request identifying a story describing an action performed by a social networking system user and generates a sponsored story accordingly. The sponsored story request may also include a bid amount and other information for generating a sponsored story from the sponsored story request. When an action is included in a sponsored story presented to a social networking system user, the social networking system notifies the user associated with the action and provides one or more settings regulating inclusion of actions associated with the user in sponsored story requests. For example, settings allow a user to prevent generation of sponsored stories including a specified type of action, a specific action, or multiple actions associated with the user. Hence, the settings allow a user to limit or prevent generation of sponsored stories describing actions associated with the user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09471943&OS=09471943&RS=09471943
owner: Facebook, Inc.
number: 09471943
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130620
---
This invention generally pertains to social networking and more specifically to advertising via a social networking system.

Social networks or social utilities that track and enable connections between users including people businesses and other entities have become prevalent in recent years and allow users to communicate information more efficiently. For example a social networking system user may post contact information background information job information hobbies and or other user specific data to the social networking system. Other users can then review the posted data by browsing user profiles or searching for profiles including specific data. Social networking systems also allow users to associate themselves with other users thus creating a web of connections among the users of the social networking system. These connections among the users can be leveraged by the social networking system to offer more relevant information to each user in view of user stated interests.

Additionally social networking systems enable users to interact with other users or objects by performing various actions. For example users may post comments to pages associated with other users view images view video listen to audio data or perform other actions on various objects maintained by the social networking system. Actions performed by a user are frequently distributed to other users connected to the user who performed the action. Often social networking systems generate newsfeeds for their users where various stories in the newsfeed describe actions performed by other users connected to the user viewing the newsfeed. A social networking system may prioritize stories in the newsfeed so that stories likely to be of interest to the viewing user are more readily accessible to the viewing user. For example stories describing actions performed by users with whom the viewing user frequently interacts or describing actions performed on objects in which the user has a particular interest may be easier to view via the newsfeed.

Users may advertise products or events or otherwise communicate content to other users via a social networking system. For example content may be described by stories indicating other users interactions with the social networking system. These stories may be included in newsfeeds presented to social networking system users connected to users performing the interactions. As a user may have different levels of interactions with different social networking system users the social networking system may determine that some users are not likely to be interested a story describing a user s interaction which reduces the effectiveness of the social networking system in communicating content. Hence users may seek to increase the likelihood of a particular story being presented to other social networking system users allowing more effective communication of content.

Social networking system users such as advertisers may promote certain actions posts or other content that is represented in the social networking system. These promotions may take the form of sponsored story units including a sponsored story and or one or more related posts. The sponsored story describes an action taken by a user of a social networking system to whom the viewing user is connected and an object on which the action was taken. For example the sponsored story may indicate that a particular user listened to an identified song or that the particular user shared a particular link. Hence a sponsored story leverages information stored by the social networking system about objects in the social networking system and actions performed on various objects maintained by the social networking system.

A social networking system allows a viewing user to receive descriptions of actions performed by other users connected to the viewing user or content associated with objects maintained by the social networking system. To communicate this information to the viewing user the social networking system may generate a newsfeed for presentation to the viewing user. The newsfeed includes stories describing actions objects or other content likely to be of interest to the viewing user. For example the newsfeed includes stories describing actions performed by other users connected to the viewing user. Commonly the social networking system will select stories for the newsfeed based on the likelihood that the viewing user will be interested in an action object user or other content identified by the stories. However users may compensate the social networking system to increase the likelihood that stories selected by the user are included in the viewing user s newsfeed or that stories selected by the user are readily identified from the viewing user s newsfeed.

To provide sponsored stories to users the social networking system receives a sponsored story request identifying an action performed by a social networking system user. For example a sponsored story request identifies a story including an action performed by a social networking system user. The sponsored story request may also include a bid amount and other information for generating a sponsored story including the action identified by the sponsored story request. When a sponsored story describing an action specified by the sponsored story request is presented to a social networking system user a notification is communicated to a user associated with the action described by the sponsored story. The notification indicates that an action associated with the user was included in a sponsored story presented to an additional social networking system user and includes one or more settings for preventing inclusion of actions associated with the user in sponsored stories. For example settings allow a user to prevent sponsored stories from including a specified type of action associated with the user a specific action associated with the user or multiple actions associated with the user. Additionally one or more settings may prevent presentation of sponsored stories including an action or a type of action associated with the user to other users having one or more characteristics identified by a setting. One or more settings selected by the user are received and stored in a user profile maintained by the social networking system for the user.

After the one or more selected settings are stored in the user profile the social networking system modifies the sponsored story generated from the sponsored story request. For example if one or more of the settings prevent inclusion of actions associated with the user in sponsored stories a description of the action associated with the user is removed from the sponsored story or the sponsored story is deleted. Additionally if another sponsored story request identifying an action associated with the user is retrieved the one or more settings from the user s user profile determine if a corresponding sponsored story unit is generated. For example if a setting prevents inclusion of a specific type of action associated with the user in sponsored stories and a sponsored story request identifies an action associated with the user having the specific type no sponsored story unit is generated from the sponsored story request. Hence social networking system users may regulate use of their actions in sponsored story units.

The figures depict various embodiments of the present invention for purposes of illustration only. One skilled in the art will readily recognize from the following discussion that alternative embodiments of the structures and methods illustrated herein may be employed without departing from the principles of the invention described herein.

Social networking system users may be authorized to promote an object to other users. For example a user authorized to promote an object a promoting user selects content associated with the object for distribution to other social networking system users. Examples of promoting users include a page administrator for the page associated with the object a creator of the object or the page or another user capable of modifying the object or the page associated with the object. Additionally in some embodiments a user may promote content posted to the social networking system by the user or content posted to the social networking system by another social networking system user. This allows various users to increase the likelihood of promoted content being presented to other social networking system users.

A promoting user may also provide parameters specifying how selected content is distributed to other social networking system users. For example the promoting user may associate targeting criteria with selected content to present the selected content to specific groups of users or to present the selected content for a specified duration. Parameters specifying distribution of selected content may also specify a budget and or a bid amount to identify compensation provided to the social networking system for presenting the selected content to its users allowing the promoting user to increase the likelihood that other users receive or access the selected content.

In the example of the social networking system receives a request to generate a sponsored story from a promoting user. The sponsored story request identifies the promoting user an action associated with a user for inclusion in a sponsored story a bid amount for presentation of the sponsored story and may also include one or more parameters as described above. The social networking system may receive the sponsored story request through any suitable communication channel. Examples of channels from which the social networking system receives a sponsored story request are described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 539 399 filed on Jun. 30 2012 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 539 410 filed on Jun. 30 2012 each of which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

Based on the sponsored story request the social networking system generates a sponsored story distributing an action and or an object identified by the sponsored story request. Embodiments of sponsored stories based on sponsored story requests are described in U.S. application Ser. No. 12 193 702 filed Aug. 18 2008 published as U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2009 0119167 which is incorporated in its entirety by reference herein. Hence the sponsored story request allows the social networking system to generate a story describing the action or object for distribution to social networking system users. In the example shown by the sponsored story is presented to a viewing user that is connected to another user that performed the action specified by the sponsored story request through any suitable communication channel. For example the sponsored story is included in a news feed of stories describing actions of other social networking system users that is presented to the viewing user via for example an associated client device the sponsored story may be visually distinguished from other stories included in the news feed presented to the viewing user. If the sponsored story request specifies targeting criteria the viewing user is a social networking user having one or more of the characteristics specified by the targeting criteria and connected to a user associated with an action or an object identified by the sponsored story request.

However a user associated with the action or with the object identified by the sponsored story request referred to herein as an acting user may desire to limit distribution of its actions or objects to other social networking system users. To allow the acting user to prevent distribution of its associated actions or objects to other social networking system users in the example of after initially presenting a sponsored story including an action or an object associated with the acting user to a viewing user the social networking system presents the acting user with a notification via a client device that a sponsored story including an action or object associated with the acting user was presented. The notification may be a pop up window an email a text message or graphical user interface element or may be provided through any suitable communication channel. The notification includes one or more settings allowing the acting user to regulate presentation of actions or objects associated with the acting user in sponsored stories. For example the notification includes settings allowing the acting user to prevent inclusion of one or more actions in sponsored stories based on the promoting user e.g. opt out of sponsored stories from NIKE to prevent inclusion of specified types of actions in sponsored stories to prevent inclusion of the action included in the presented sponsored story to additional social networking system users to prevent presentation of sponsored stories including an action or a type of action to users identified by the setting or some combination thereof. While shows presentation of the notification to the acting user after initial presentation of a sponsored story including an action or an object associated with the acting user in other embodiments the social networking system presents the notification to the acting user via for example the associated client device when the sponsored story request including an action or an object associated with the acting user is received .

From the presented notification the acting user provides the social networking system with one or more settings regulating distribution of actions or objects associated with the acting user via sponsored stories. The social networking system stores the received settings in a user profile associated with the acting user allowing the social networking system to apply the provided settings to regulate subsequent generation of sponsored stories describing actions or objects associated with the acting user . For example the social networking system does not generate a sponsored story based on a subsequently received sponsored story request including a type of action that an acting user has prevented from being distributed in a sponsored story by specifying one or more settings. As another example a sponsored story describing an action associated with the acting user is not presented to users having a characteristic e.g. a type of connection go the acting user specified by a setting selected by the acting user . By storing the acting user s settings for presentation of actions or objects the social networking system allows the acting user to prevent its actions or certain actions from being shared with other social networking system users via sponsored stories.

After receiving one or more settings from the acting user subsequent to presentation of a sponsored story describing an action associated with the acting user to a viewing user the social networking system modifies the sponsored story describing the action associated with the acting user based on the one or more settings. For example the social networking system prevents the sponsored story from being presented to users identified by a setting. As another example the social networking system removes information describing the action from the sponsored story if the setting prevents presentation of the type of action or specific action to other social networking system users. The modified sponsored story is then presented to an additional user via for example an associated client device allowing the promoting user to present information to the additional user without including information that the acting user prevents from presentation to additional users. Alternatively the social networking system deletes the sponsored story to prevent subsequent presentation of the sponsored story to social networking system users and presents alternative content to the additional user .

The client devices are one or more computing devices capable of receiving user input as well as transmitting and or receiving data via the network . In one embodiment a client device is a conventional computer system such as a desktop or a laptop computer. Alternatively a client device may be a device having computer functionality such as a personal digital assistant PDA a mobile telephone a smartphone or another suitable device. A client device is configured to communicate via the network . In one embodiment a client device executes an application allowing a user of the client device to interact with the social networking system . For example a client device executes a browser application to enable interaction between the client device and the social networking system via the network . In another embodiment a client device interacts with the social networking system through an application programming interface API running on a native operating system of the client device such as IOS or ANDROID .

The client devices are configured to communicate via the network which may comprise any combination of local area and or wide area networks using both wired and or wireless communication systems. In one embodiment the network uses standard communications technologies and or protocols. For example the network includes communication links using technologies such as Ethernet 802.11 worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX 3G 4G code division multiple access CDMA digital subscriber line DSL etc. Examples of networking protocols used for communicating via the network include multiprotocol label switching MPLS transmission control protocol Internet protocol TCP IP hypertext transport protocol HTTP simple mail transfer protocol SMTP and file transfer protocol FTP . Data exchanged over the network may be represented using any suitable format such as hypertext markup language HTML or extensible markup language XML . In some embodiments all or some of the communication links of the network may be encrypted using any suitable technique or techniques.

One or more third party systems may be coupled to the network for communicating with the social networking system which is further described below in conjunction with . In one embodiment a third party system is an application provider communicating information describing applications for execution by a client device or communicating data to client devices for use by an application executing on the client device. In other embodiments a third party system provides content or other information for presentation via a client device . A third party system may also communicate information to the social networking system such as advertisements content or information about an application provided by the third party system .

Each user of the social networking system is associated with a user profile which is stored in the user profile store . A user profile includes declarative information about the user that was explicitly shared by the user and may also include profile information inferred by the social networking system . In one embodiment a user profile includes multiple data fields each describing one or more attributes of the corresponding social networking system user. Examples of information stored in a user profile include biographic demographic and other types of descriptive information such as work experience educational history gender hobbies or preferences location and the like. A user profile may also store other information provided by the user for example images or videos. In certain embodiments images of users may be tagged with information identifying the social networking system users displayed in an image. A user profile in the user profile store may also maintain references to actions by the corresponding user performed on content items in the content store and stored in the action log .

As described above in conjunction with a user profile includes one or more settings specified by the corresponding user authorizing or restricting use of actions or objects associated with the user in sponsored stories. Stored settings may indicate one or more types of actions that are prevented from inclusion in sponsored stories or may indicate specific actions prevented from inclusion in sponsored stories. For example a blacklist identifying actions and or types of actions prevented from inclusion in sponsored stories is stored in a user s user profile. Additionally one or more settings may indicate users or characteristics of users prevented from receiving sponsored stories including an action associated with a user or prevented from receiving sponsored stories including a type of action associated with the user. For example a setting specifies user identifiers associated with a type of action to prevent users corresponding to the user identifiers from receiving a sponsored story describing an action associated with the user having the specified type. As another example a setting identifies a type of connection between the user and additional users to prevent additional users connected to the user by the specified type of connection from receiving sponsored stories describing an action associated with the user.

While user profiles in the user profile store are frequently associated with individuals allowing individuals to interact with each other via the social networking system user profiles may also be stored for entities such as businesses or organizations. This allows an entity to establish a presence on the social networking system for connecting and exchanging content with other social networking system users. The entity may post information about itself about its products or provide other information to users of the social networking system using a brand page associated with the entity s user profile. Other users of the social networking system may connect to the brand page to receive information posted to the brand page or to receive information from the brand page. A user profile associated with the brand page may include information about the entity itself providing users with background or informational data about the entity.

The content store stores objects that each represent various types of content. Examples of content represented by an object include a page post a status update a photograph a video a link a shared content item a gaming application achievement a check in event at a local business a brand page or any other type of content. Social networking system users may create objects stored by the content store such as status updates photos tagged by users to be associated with other objects in the social networking system events groups or applications. In some embodiments objects are received from third party applications or third party applications separate from the social networking system . In one embodiment objects in the content store represent single pieces of content or content items. Hence social networking system users are encouraged to communicate with each other by posting text and content items of various types of media to the social networking system through various communication channels. This increases the amount of interaction of users with each other and increases the frequency with which users interact within the social networking system .

The action logger receives communications about user actions internal to and or external to the social networking system populating the action log with information about user actions. Examples of actions include adding a connection to another user sending a message to another user uploading an image reading a message from another user viewing content associated with another user and attending an event posted by another user. In addition a number of actions may involve an object and one or more particular users so these actions are associated with those users as well and stored in the action log .

The action log may be used by the social networking system to track user actions on the social networking system as well as actions on third party systems XX30 that communicate information to the social networking system . Users may interact with various objects on the social networking system and information describing these interactions is stored in the action log . Examples of interactions with objects include commenting on posts sharing links checking in to physical locations via a mobile device accessing content items and any other suitable interactions. Additional examples of interactions with objects on the social networking system that are included in the action log include commenting on a photo album communicating with a user establishing a connection with an object joining an event joining a group creating an event authorizing an application using an application expressing a preference for an object liking the object and engaging in a transaction. Additionally the action log may record a user s interactions with advertisements on the social networking system as well as with other applications operating on the social networking system . In some embodiments data from the action log is used to infer interests or preferences of a user augmenting the interests included in the user s user profile and allowing a more complete understanding of user preferences.

The action log may also store user actions taken on a third party system XX30 such as an external website and communicated to the social networking system . For example an e commerce website may recognize a user of a social networking system through a social plug in enabling the e commerce website to identify the user of the social networking system . Because users of the social networking system are uniquely identifiable e commerce websites such as in the preceding example may communicate information about a user s actions outside of the social networking system to the social networking system for association with the user. Hence the action log may record information about actions users perform on a third party system including webpage viewing histories advertisements that were engaged purchases made and other patterns from shopping and buying.

In one embodiment the edge store stores information describing connections between users and other objects on the social networking system as edges. Some edges may be defined by users allowing users to specify their relationships with other users. For example users may generate edges with other users that parallel the users real life relationships such as friends co workers partners and so forth. Other edges are generated when users interact with objects in the social networking system such as expressing interest in a page on the social networking system sharing a link with other users of the social networking system and commenting on posts made by other users of the social networking system .

In one embodiment an edge may include various features each representing characteristics of interactions between users interactions between users and objects or interactions between objects. For example features included in an edge describe rate of interaction between two users how recently two users have interacted with each other the rate or amount of information retrieved by one user about an object or the number and types of comments posted by a user about an object. The features may also represent information describing a particular object or user. For example a feature may represent the level of interest that a user has in a particular topic the rate at which the user logs into the social networking system or information describing demographic information about a user. Each feature may be associated with a source object or user a target object or user and a feature value. A feature may be specified as an expression based on values describing the source object or user the target object or user or interactions between the source object or user and target object or user hence an edge may be represented as one or more feature expressions.

The edge store also stores information about edges such as affinity scores for objects interests and other users. Affinity scores or affinities may be computed by the social networking system over time to approximate a user s interest in an object or in another user in the social networking system based on the actions performed by the user. A user s affinity may be computed by the social networking system over time to approximate a user s interest for an object interest or interest for another user in the social networking system based on the actions performed by the user. Computation of affinity is further described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 978 265 filed on Dec. 23 2010 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 690 254 filed on Nov. 30 2012 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 689 969 filed on Nov. 30 2012 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 690 088 filed on Nov. 30 2012 each of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. Multiple interactions between a user and a specific object may be stored as a single edge in the edge store in one embodiment. Alternatively each interaction between a user and a specific object is stored as a separate edge. In some embodiments connections between users may be stored in the user profile store or the user profile store may access the edge store to determine connections between users.

In one embodiment the social networking system identifies stories likely to be of interest to a user through a newsfeed presented to the user. A story presented to a user describes an action taken by an additional user connected to the user and identifies the additional user. In some embodiments a story describing an action performed by a user may be accessible to users not connected to the user that performed the action. The newsfeed manager may generate stories for presentation to a user based on information in the action log and in the edge store or may select candidate stories included in the content store . One or more of the candidate stories are selected and presented to a user by the newsfeed manager .

For example the newsfeed manager receives a request to present one or more stories to a social networking system user. The newsfeed manager accesses one or more of the user profile store the content store the action log and the edge store to retrieve information about the identified user. For example stories or other data associated with users connected to the identified user are retrieved. The retrieved stories or other data are analyzed by the newsfeed manager to identify content likely to be relevant to the identified user. For example stories associated with users not connected to the identified user or stories associated with users for which the identified user has less than a threshold affinity are discarded as candidate stories. Based on various criteria the newsfeed manager selects one or more of the candidate stories for presentation to the identified user.

In various embodiments the newsfeed manager presents stories to a user through a newsfeed including a plurality of stories selected for presentation to the user. The newsfeed may include a limited number of stories or may include a complete set of candidate stories. The number of stories included in a newsfeed may be determined in part by a user preference included in user profile store . The newsfeed manager may also determine the order in which selected stories are presented via the newsfeed. For example the newsfeed manager determines that a user has a highest affinity for a specific user and increases the number of stories in the newsfeed associated with the specific user or modifies the positions in the newsfeed where stories associated with the specific user are presented.

The newsfeed manager may also account for actions by a user indicating a preference for types of stories and selects stories having the same or similar types for inclusion in the newsfeed. Additionally newsfeed manager may analyze stories received by social networking system from various users to obtain information about user preferences or actions from the analyzed stories. This information may be used to refine subsequent selection of stories for newsfeeds presented to various users.

When generating a newsfeed the newsfeed manager may select or rank stories based on a variety of data. For example stories may be ranked based on an affinity score between the user that the story is associated with and the user to whom the newsfeed is being generated. Additionally the newsfeed manager may account for bid amounts or budgets associated with a story by a promoting user and modify the likelihood of a story being included in a newsfeed based on the bid amounts and or budget. Hence the newsfeed manager allows a promoting user or an advertiser to increase the likelihood that a story is included in a newsfeed by compensating the social networking system for including the story in a newsfeed i.e. allowing the user to sponsor the story . This allows users authorized to promote an object may provide the social networking system with data customizing how interactions with the object are presented to different users.

In one embodiment the newsfeed manager identifies candidate stories for presentation to a viewing user and calculates a score for each of the candidate stories. The candidate stories may be ranked based on their corresponding scores with the ranking used to select stories for presentation to the viewing user. The score of a candidate story may be based on an organic value based on an affinity score and or other measures of the likelihood of the viewing user having an interest in the score as well as a sponsored value based on the bid amount associated with the candidate story. For stories that are not sponsored the sponsored value is zero so the score of the story is the organic value.

The promotion engine receives requests to generate sponsored stories from one or more users and retrieves one or more settings from user profiles associated with users associated with actions or objects identified by the sponsored story requests acting users . Based on the settings from the user profile of the acting user the promotion engine determines whether to generate a sponsored story from a sponsored story request or whether to present a generated sponsored story to a user. Retrieving one or more settings associated with an acting user corresponding to an action or object in a sponsored story request allows the social networking system to preserve the acting user s privacy by limiting presentation or generation of sponsored stories subject to the acting user s settings for distribution of its actions. Use of an acting user s settings in presentation of sponsored stories is further described below in conjunction with .

The web server links the social networking system via the network to the one or more client devices as well as to the one or more third party systems . The web server serves web pages as well as other content such as JAVA FLASH XML and so forth. The web server may receive and route messages between the social networking system and the client device for example instant messages queued messages e.g. email text messages short message service SMS messages or messages sent using any other suitable messaging technique. A user may send a request to the web server to upload information e.g. images or videos that are stored in the content store . Additionally the web server may provide application programming interface API functionality to send data directly to native client device operating systems such as IOS ANDROID WEBOS or RIM .

Based on the sponsored story request the social networking system generates a sponsored story describing the action or the object identified by the sponsored story request. Embodiments of sponsored stories based on sponsored story requests are described in U.S. application Ser. No. 12 193 702 filed Aug. 18 2008 published as U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2009 0119167 which is incorporated in its entirety by reference herein. The generated sponsored story is presented to a viewing user. For example the sponsored story is included in a news feed along with other stories presented to the viewing user.

When the sponsored story is presented to the viewing user e.g. via an associated client device the social networking system notifies e.g. via an associated client device the acting user that a sponsored story describing an action or an object associated with the acting user was presented. For example after the sponsored story is presented to a single viewing user the social networking system notifies the acting user that a sponsored story describing an action or object associated with the acting user has been presented . For example a notification indicating that a sponsored story associated with the acting user is included in an action log indicating actions associated with the acting user when the user accesses the action log the notification is presented to the acting user.

One or more settings are presented e.g. via the associated client device when the acting user is notified of presentation of the sponsored stories. The settings identify actions or types of actions allowing the acting user to select a setting to prevent an action or a type of action from being presented to other users through a sponsored story. For example the settings identify the action included in the presented sponsored story and one or more actions similar to the action included in the presented sponsored story by selecting a setting the acting user prevents presentation of a sponsored story including an action corresponding to the selected setting to other users. A setting may allow the acting user to prevent presentation of sponsored stories describing an action performed by the user based on characteristics of the user from which the sponsored story request was received. For example the acting user identifies types of users so that sponsored stories describing an action associated with the user and received from an identified type of user do not result in presentation of a sponsored story. This allows the acting user to prevent dissemination of sponsored stories describing the acting user s actions by applications or by other entities.

In some embodiments the settings also allow the acting user to specify characteristics of additional social networking system users that are not presented with sponsored stories describing an action or an object associated with the acting user. For example the acting user identifies one or more users or characteristics of additional users or identifies a type of connection between the acting user and other users sponsored stories describing an action or an object associated with the acting user are not presented to the identified users or to users connected to the acting user by the specified type of connection. The acting user may specify various combinations of actions types of actions users and user characteristics to regulate distribution of actions or objects associated with the acting user via sponsored stories.

One or more settings selected by the acting user for presentation of information associated with the acting user via sponsored stories are stored in a user profile associated with the user. Additionally the sponsored story describing an action or an object associated with the acting user and presented by the social networking system is modified based on the settings received from the user. For example if the acting user prevents the action described by the sponsored story from presentation to other users the description of the action is removed from the sponsored story and the modified sponsored story is presented. As another example the sponsored story is not presented to users identified by a received setting. Alternatively the social networking system deletes the sponsored story if the acting user prevents presentation of the described action to other users.

When the social networking system receives an additional request to generate a sponsored story describing an action or an object associated with the acting user the settings included in the acting user s user profile are retrieved. Based on the action or object identified by the sponsored story request and the acting user s settings the social networking system determines whether to generate the requested sponsored story or how to present a generated sponsored story. For example if the additional sponsored story request includes an action having an action type prevented from presentation to additional users by the acting user s settings a sponsored story is not generated based on the additional sponsored story request. As another example if the acting user s settings prevent distribution of a sponsored story describing a specified action to additional users having a specific type of connection to the acting user a sponsored story describing the action is not presented to users having the specified type of connection to the acting user.

While the preceding examples describe embodiments where the settings specified by the acting user specify criteria for preventing distribution of sponsored stories associated with the acting user in other embodiments one or more of the stored settings identify criteria for permitting presentation of sponsored stories associated with the viewing user. For example a setting identifies actions or type of actions that the acting user authorizes for presentation to other users via sponsored stories. As another example a setting authorizes generation of sponsored stories describing actions or objects associated with the viewing user based on sponsored story requests received from identified users or types of users. Similarly one or more settings may identify users or types of users that are authorized to receive sponsored stories describing actions or specified types of actions associated with the acting user. In additional embodiments the settings allow the acting user to identify any combination of criteria authorizing and preventing presentation of sponsored stories describing actions or objects associated with the acting user.

The foregoing description of the embodiments of the invention has been presented for the purpose of illustration it is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Persons skilled in the relevant art can appreciate that many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above disclosure.

Some portions of this description describe the embodiments of the invention in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on information. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are commonly used by those skilled in the data processing arts to convey the substance of their work effectively to others skilled in the art. These operations while described functionally computationally or logically are understood to be implemented by computer programs or equivalent electrical circuits microcode or the like. Furthermore it has also proven convenient at times to refer to these arrangements of operations as modules without loss of generality. The described operations and their associated modules may be embodied in software firmware hardware or any combinations thereof.

Any of the steps operations or processes described herein may be performed or implemented with one or more hardware or software modules alone or in combination with other devices. In one embodiment a software module is implemented with a computer program product comprising a computer readable medium containing computer program code which can be executed by a computer processor for performing any or all of the steps operations or processes described.

Embodiments of the invention may also relate to an apparatus for performing the operations herein. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purposes and or it may comprise a general purpose computing device selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored in the computer. Such a computer program may be stored in a tangible computer readable storage medium or any type of media suitable for storing electronic instructions and coupled to a computer system bus. Furthermore any computing systems referred to in the specification may include a single processor or may be architectures employing multiple processor designs for increased computing capability.

Embodiments of the invention may also relate to a computer data signal embodied in a carrier wave where the computer data signal includes any embodiment of a computer program product or other data combination described herein. The computer data signal is a product that is presented in a tangible medium or carrier wave and modulated or otherwise encoded in the carrier wave which is tangible and transmitted according to any suitable transmission method.

Finally the language used in the specification has been principally selected for readability and instructional purposes and it may not have been selected to delineate or circumscribe the inventive subject matter. It is therefore intended that the scope of the invention be limited not by this detailed description but rather by any claims that issue on an application based hereon. Accordingly the disclosure of the embodiments of the invention is intended to be illustrative but not limiting of the scope of the invention which is set forth in the following claims.

