---

title: Method and device for detecting impact events on a security barrier which includes a hollow rebar allowing insertion and removal of an optical fiber
abstract: A method and device for the detection of impact events on a security barrier. A hollow rebar is farmed within a security barrier, whereby the hollow rebar is completely surrounded by the security barrier. An optical fiber passes through the interior of the hollow rebar. An optical transmitter and an optical receiver are both optically connected to the optical fiber and connected to optical electronics. The optical electronics are configured to provide notification upon the detection of an impact event at the security barrier based on the detection of disturbances within the optical fiber.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09297710&OS=09297710&RS=09297710
owner: U.S. Department of Energy
number: 09297710
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131202
---
The United States Government has rights in this invention pursuant to the Employer Employee Relationship with the inventor.

The present invention relates to a method and device for the detection of impact events on a security barrier. Preferably the present invention is used to secure airports secure checkpoints or more preferably power distribution centers by detecting impact events at security barriers.

Security barriers are a fundamental component deployed in securing airports checkpoints power distribution centers or other secure areas. Generally these structures are made out of concrete and provide a formidable barrier against vehicles explosives or even personal. One such security barrier is sold under the trademark BATTLEGUARD by HIT. However given the location and resources the barriers may not be monitored or monitored remotely simultaneously with numerous other locations.

As security barriers are the first line of defense effective monitoring is key to effective security. Cameras are frequently used to monitor the site however these may be easily avoided using long range weapons hidden explosives or simply avoiding the view of the cameras. Rural sites or site otherwise too remote or too numerous to monitor are often left completely unmonitored due to the cost of monitoring these sites thereby creating significant vulnerabilities. Therefore there is a need to detect impacts upon security barriers without the need for personal on site or with remote visual monitoring.

A method and device for the detection of impact events on a security barrier comprising a security barrier a hollow rebar a motion sensing optical fiber an optical transmitter an optical receiver and optical electronics. The security barrier forms a solid structure. The hollow rebar is positioned within the security barrier whereby the hollow rebar is completely surrounded by the solid structure of the security barrier. The optical fiber cable passing within the security barrier is completely surrounded by the hollow rebar. The hollow rebar comprises an interior. The optical fiber passes through the interior of the hollow rebar. The optical transmitter produces an optical energy.

The optical transmitter is optically connected to the optical fiber whereby the optical energy from the optical transmitter passes through the optical fiber including the optical fiber passing within the security barrier. The optical receiver is optically connected to the optical fiber whereby the optical energy from the o ptical transmitter is received through the optical fiber. The optical transmitter and the optical receiver are connected to the optical electronics. The optical electronics comprise a computer microcontroller application specific integrated circuit an embedded system or a combination thereof and are configured to detect disturbances within the optical fiber from the optical energy received by the optical receiver. The optical electronics have a means for providing notification of the detection of an impact event at the security barrier upon the detection of disturbances within the optical fiber exceeding a predetermined deviation threshold. Upon impact the motion generated by the impact triggers an event that is detected by the combination of the optical transmitter optical receiver and optical electronics and provides a notification of an impact event.

The optical electronics are any electrical device or devices that are capable of receiving a signal from the optical receiver . Preferably the optical electronics also control the optical transmitter for example but not limited to powering the optical transmitter optimizing the transmission time cycle duty cycle wavelength modulation or combinations thereof.

The optical electronics preferably employs any method of determining whether or not the optical energy from the optical transmitter through the optical fiber and received by the optical receiver . The optical electronics is preferably a computer microcontroller application specific integrated circuit an embedded system or a combination thereof.

The optical electronics preferably includes a processing unit capable of performing calculations relating to the determination of disturbances in the optical connection through the optical fiber between the optical transmitter and the optical receiver . Preferably the optical electronics also includes a data bus serial or parallel connection analog to digital converter or combination thereof capable of communication with the optical received . In one embedment the optical electronics includes the microcontroller sold under the trademark ATMEGA128 by ATMEL.

The optical electronics detect disturbances within the optical fiber from the optical energy from the optical transmitter having passed through the optical fiber and received by the optical receiver . Preferably disturbances are detected by providing a modulated output at the optical transmitter and detecting disturbances in said modulated output. Preferably the modulation of the optical energy from the optical transmitter is a known change preferably an oscillation of the amplitude intensity phase frequency polarization or combination thereof. As vibrations temperatures sounds pressures or other changes to the environment of the optical fiber will alter the optical response of the system they will be detectable by the optical electronics . Therefore when there is a deviation from the signal received at the optical receiver it may be assumed that such deviation is a response from an impact event on the security barrier .

If a predetermined deviation threshold is exceeded then a notification is sent. Preferably the timing of the deviation is also recorded to identify where the deviation occurred within the optical fiber for the determination of the location of the impact event as well as diagnostics. Preferably the predetermined deviation threshold is optimized for the particularly impact of interest. In one embodiment the predetermined deviation threshold is optimized to detect small firearm fire explosive ordinances or a combination thereof.

In one embodiment the predetermined deviation threshold is defined during design or after manufacture. In another embodiment the optical electronics perform a self calibration whereby the predetermined deviation threshold is adjusted by the optical electronics to changes in the signal from the optical receiver relating to the oscillating amplitude received at the optical receiver for example by calculating a running average. This embodiment is preferred as a self calibration will allow for changes in climate for example temperature humidity pressure or a combination thereof and any structural changes to security barrier due to wear and tear.

In one embodiment the optical electronics optical fiber optical receiver as well as any other necessary components deploy detection techniques using an optical fiber as described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 7 491 957 7 792 395 and 8 363 230 Giallorenzi T. G. Bucaro J. A. Dandridge A. Sigel G. H. Cole J. H. Rashleigh S. C. Priest R. G. Optical fiber sensor technology vol. 18 no. 4 pp. 626 665 April 1982 or a combination thereof all hereby fully incorporated by reference. Depending on the technique deployed additional optical fibers beam splitters other optical components or a combination thereof may be deployed.

The optical electronics are configured to provide notification after an impact event is identified as described above. Preferably notification is provided by a simple audible visual tactical or combination thereof alarm connected to the optical electronics . In one embodiment a speaker vibrator light source preferably light emitting diode or a combination thereof is electrically connected to the optical electronics and is enabled by the optical electronics to provide notification. The speaker vibrator light source preferably light emitting diode or a combination thereof is preferably enabled via a digital output of the optical electronics which powers the notification means directly or indirectly e.g. through a relay or a signal . In another embodiment the optical electronics are connected to a larger network and the notification is .a signal sent to a remote station or other network based notification for example but not limited to email text message other network based messages or a combination thereof. In one such embodiment the optical electronics comprises a network interface controller cellular modem or other communication device which is capable of notification for example but not limited to via email text message other network based messages or a combination thereof.

The optical transmitter is any means of providing optical energy to the optical fiber preferably a modulated optical energy. Preferably the optical transmitter is employs a gas or solid state laser. Preferably the optical transmitter a laser diode a VCSEL active or passive Q switched lasers or combinations thereof. Preferably the optical transmitter is a laser diode preferably producing a modulated optical energy.

The optical fiber is any means of transferring the optical energy form the optical transmitter through the hollow rebar and to the optical receiver whereby any movements within the hollow rebar as well as the security barrier will affect the resulting optical energy received. Preferably the optical fiber includes a transparent core surrounded by a transparent cladding material with a lower index of reflection thereby forming a waveguide. Although only one optical fiber is shown in any number of optical fibers may be used as described herein.

Preferably the optical fiber is made mostly of silica and more preferably with fluorozirconate fluoroaluminate and chalcogenide glasses crystalline materials like sapphire or combinations thereof. In alternate embodiments the optical fiber is made essentially of silica fluoride phosphates chalcogenides or combinations thereof.

The hollow rebar is any reinforcing material added to the security barrier that is hollow thereby allowing for the optical fiber to pass within its interior. Preferably the hollow rebar is made of carbon steel composites or a combination thereof. In a preferred embodiment the hollow rebar is made of reinforced plastic fibers.

Preferably the hollow rebar is positioned within the security barrier during the construction of the security barrier preferably by a molding process for example but not limited to pouring concrete the cooling of a heated compound the molding of a compounds after exposure to a solidifying gas or liquid or other solidification technique.

Preferably the resulting hollow rebar has a shape that allows for the easy insertion of the optical fiber after the security barrier is constructed as the construction process may damage the optical fiber or it may be desirable to replace or upgrade the optical fiber in the future. Therefore the hollow rebar within the security barrier preferably has an ovular shape having a single loop thereby allowing for the easy insertion of the optical fiber into the hollow rebar after construction of the security battier . Embodiments having an ovular shaped hollow rebar are preferable as they provide for an easier and therefore lower cost manufacturing process. Preferably an ovular shape within the security barrier has no right angles preferably no bends between 85 and 95 degrees and between 265 and 280 degrees. Preferably the outer edge of the ovular shape within the security barrier follows a consistent angle having a variance of no more than 10 degrees more preferably 5 degrees and even more preferably 1 degree. In a preferred embodiment the hollow rebar within the security barrier has an oval shape.

In the alternative hollow rebar forming other shapes may be used however depending on the shape and the optical fiber used it may be desirable to construct the security barrier with the optical fiber in place which may complicate construction.

The optical receiver is any device capable of detecting the optical energy provided by the optical transmitter . Preferably the optical receiver is a photodiode or other photosensitive material producing an electrical output. In a preferred embodiment the optical receiver is a photodiode connected to an analog to digital converter ADC of the optical electronics preferably through an operational amplifier to amplify the voltage provided by the photodiode to levels optimized for the ADC of the optical electronics .

The security barrier is any solid structure. Preferably the security barrier is made of concrete. Preferably the security barrier is formed to a shape optimal for securing against the threats of interest. For example if explosives are a concern the security barrier is preferably shaped and orientated to mitigate damage from the anticipated explosives. Likewise if a particular weapon fire is a concern the security barrier is preferably shaped and orientated to mitigate damage from the anticipated weapon ordinance. In one embodiment the security barrier is designed to withstand small firearm fire explosive ordinances or a combination thereof. In a preferred embodiment the security barrier is a the security barrier so Id under the trademark BATTLEGUARD by HIT.

The camera is any means of capturing images preferably time lapsed images or a video. Preferably the camera is mounted to or within the security barrier. Preferably the camera is a wireless camera transmitting a video feed to a remote location for monitoring not shown for simplicity . In the alternate embodiment the camera is a wired camera with the wires preferably secured preferably by the use of an underground conduit. Preferably the camera is a pan tilt zoom PTZ camera that may be remotely controlled for remote viewing. Preferably the camera s powered by an underground power line not shown for simplicity more preferably with a battery backup not shown for simplicity .

In this embodiment the optical electronics are connected to the optical transmitter preferably by one or more wires . The optical electronics are also connected to the optical receiver preferably by one or more wires . The beam splitter optically connects the optical transmitter optical receiver and the optical reflector . The first end of the optical fiber is optically connected to the optical transmitter . The second end of the optical fiber is optically connected to the optical reflector preferably within the security barrier .

The optical transmitter provides an optical energy to the first end of the optical fiber through the beam splitter . The optical fiber is positioned within the interior of a hollow rebar . The hollow rebar is positioned within and completely surrounded by the security barrier . Optical energy provided by the optical source passes through the optical fiber within the hollow rebar and within the security barrier to the optical reflector . The optical reflector at least partially reflects the optical energy back to the beam splitter and finally to the optical receiver . The optical receiver sends a signal to the optical electronics related to the optical energy received. The optical electronics processes the signals for disturbances from an impact event and reports any detected disturbances.

The optical reflector at least partially reflects optical energy produced by the optical transmitter . Preferably the optical reflector has a reflective surface preferably by the use of two optically dissimilar materials. In one preferred embodiment the optical reflector reflects a polarized light back for simplified filtering of optical energy not reflected by the optical reflector . Preferably the optical reflector substantially reflects optical energy. Preferable substantially reflects as used herein is the reflection of the majority of optical energy more preferably at least 75 or even more preferably at least 90 or still even more preferably at least 95 of optical energy.

In one embodiment the optical reflector includes a wave plate and a thin film mirror designed to cause a reflection and preferably a 90 degree rotation of polarization. Preferably the wave plate is about 0.25 inches thick. Preferably for embodiments using a wave plate the wave plate is made of Calcite Mica crystalline Quartz or a combination thereof. Preferably the mirror is made of fused quartz with a vapor deposited coating either metallic or otherwise. Preferably the mirror is coated with aluminum or silver for cost effectiveness.

In a preferred embodiment the optical reflector is a coating or otherwise embedded onto the second end of the optical fiber . In the alternative embodiment at least the part of the hollow mbar exposed to the second end of the optical fiber functions as the optical reflector described herein. In another alternative embodiment at least the part of the security barrier exposed to the second end of the optical fiber functions as the optical reflector described herein.

The beam splitter is any material that is capable of transferring optical energy between the optical transmitter the optical receiver and the optical fiber . Preferably the beam splitter is made of an optical substrate. The beam splitter preferably comprises a thin glass slide or a partially reflecting dielectric thin film coating on an optical substrate. Partially reflecting thin film coatings are preferably made of Aluminum Silver Gold Silicon Titanium Tantalum Zirconium Hafnium Scandium Niobium oxides thereof fluorides thereof or combinations thereof. More preferably the coatings preferably comprise materials with various indices of refraction for example but not limited to as AlO TaO SiO TiO CaF ZrO BeO MgF LaF. and AlFor combinations thereof.

In a preferred embodiment the beam splitter is made of fused silica with thin films deposited on the secondary downstream face to tune the operating wavelength and the reflectivity and an anti reflection coating on the primary upstream face to improve transmission and reduce undesirable optical effects such as additional off axis reflections and ghosting of the primary optical signal. The partially reflecting thin film is preferably constituted primarily of alternating layers of low index of refraction materials whose presence or absence can be used to tune the reflectivity and the center wavelength to the desired area of operation. The thin films are preferably made up of Aluminum Silver Gold or oxides of silicon titanium tantalum zirconium hafnium scandium niobium or combinations thereof. The anti reflection coatings preferably comprise a thin film of magnesium fluoride.

It is to be understood that the above described arrangements are only illustrative of the application of the principles of the present invention. Numerous modifications and alternative arrangements may be devised by those skilled in the art without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention and the appended claims are intended to cover such modifications and arrangements.

All publications and patent documents cited in this application are incorporated by reference in their entirety for all purposes to the same extent as if each individual publication or patent document were so individually denoted.

Any element in a claim that does not explicitly state means for performing a specified function or step for performing a specific function is not to be interpreted as a means or step clause as specified in 35 U.S.C. 112 6. In particular the use of step of in the claims herein is not intended to invoke the provisions of 35 U.S.C. 112 6.

