---

title: Clamp for fast PCR heating
abstract: This disclosure provides a thermocycler system for performing polymerase chain reaction. The thermocycler system can comprise a plurality of bus bars, a microplate, a clamp and a current application device in electrical communication with the bus bars. The clamp is suitable for forming a low resistance electrical connection between the microplate and an individual bus bar of the plurality of bus bars. In some instances, the clamp includes a spring-loaded pivot and a ram. Operation of the clamp forces the microplate into contact with the bus bar, or vice versa, to provide an electrical contact between the microplate and the bus bar. The microplate can comprise a substrate having a metallic material for heating samples, and a barrier layer disposed adjacent to the substrate.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09579657&OS=09579657&RS=09579657
owner: BJS IP LTD
number: 09579657
owner_city: Middlesex
owner_country: GB
publication_date: 20130523
---
This application claims priority to PCT GB2013 051353 filed May 23 2013 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 651 425 filed May 24 2012 each of which is entirely incorporated herein by reference.

In many fields specimen carriers in the form of support sheets which may have a multiplicity of wells or impressed sample sites are used for various processes where small samples are heated or thermally cycled. A particular example is the Polymerase Chain Reaction method often referred to as PCR for replicating DNA samples. Such samples require rapid and accurate thermal cycling and are typically placed in a multi well block and cycled between several selected temperatures in a pre set repeated cycle. It is important that the temperature of the whole of the sheet or more particularly the temperature in each well be as uniform as possible.

The samples may be liquid solutions typically between 1 micro 1 and 200 micro 1 in volume contained within individual sample tubes or arrays of sample tubes that may be part of a monolithic plate. The temperature differentials that may be measured within a liquid sample increase with increasing rate of change of temperature and may limit the maximum rate of change of temperature that may be practically employed.

Previous methods of heating such specimen carriers have involved the use of attached heating devices or the use of indirect methods where separately heated fluids are directed into or around the carrier.

The previous methods of heating suffer from the disadvantage that heat is generated in a heater that is separate from the specimen carrier that is required to be heated. Such heating systems and methods suffer from heat losses accompanying the transfer of heat from the heater to a carrier sheet of the specimen carrier. In addition the separation of the heater from the specimen carrier introduces a time delay or lag in the temperature control loop. Thus the application of power to the heating elements does not produce an instantaneous or near instantaneous increase in the temperature of the block. The presence of a thermal gap or barrier between the heater and the block requires the heater to be hotter than the block if heat energy is to be transferred from the heater to the block. Therefore there is a further difficulty that cessation of power application to the heater does not instantaneously stop the block from increasing in temperature.

The lag in the temperature control loop will increase as the rate of temperature change of the block is increased. This may lead to inaccuracies in temperature control and limit the practical rates of change of temperature that may be used. Inaccuracies in terms of thermal uniformity and further lag may be produced when attached heating elements are used as the elements are attached at particular locations on the block and the heat produced by the elements must be conducted from those particular locations to the bulk of the block. For heat transfer to occur from one part of the block to another the first part of the block must be hotter than the other. Another problem with attaching a thermal element particularly current Peltier effect devices is that the interface between the block and the thermal device will be subject to mechanical stresses due to differences in the thermal expansion coefficients of the materials involved. Thermal cycling will lead to cyclic stresses that will tend to compromise the reliability of the thermal element and the integrity of the thermal interface.

An aspect of the present disclosure provides a microplate for polymerase chain reaction PCR comprising a substrate comprising a metallic material for heating PCR samples and a barrier layer disposed adjacent to the substrate the barrier layer formed of a first polymeric material. The microplate includes one or more wells for holding PCR samples the one or more wells formed of a second polymeric material sealed to the barrier layer.

Another aspect of the present disclosure provides a clamp suitable for forming a low resistance electrical connection between a microplate and a bus bar in a thermocycler wherein the clamp comprises a spring loaded pivot and a ram wherein operation of the clamp forces the microplate into contact with the bus bar.

Another aspect of the present disclosure provides a clamp configured to provide a low resistance electrical connection between a microplate and a bus bar of a thermocycler comprising a a handle coupled to a spring loaded pivot and b a ram coupled to the spring loaded pivot point. The ram provides a clamp force of at least about 500 Newtons upon movement of the handle. Movement of the handle forces the microplate into contact with the bus bar.

Another aspect of the present disclosure provides a method for forming a low resistance electrical connection between a microplate and a bus bar in a thermocycler wherein the method comprises clamping the microplate to the bus bar with a clamp comprising a spring loaded pivot and a ram.

Another aspect of the present disclosure provides a method for forming a low resistance electrical connection between a microplate and a bus bar in a thermocycler comprising a providing a clamp comprising a spring loaded pivot coupled to a ram and b using the spring loaded pivot to provide linear motion to the ram to press the microplate against the bus bar.

In some embodiments the clamp provides control over the force applied by the ram over a range of adjustments.

In some embodiments the clamp is adjusted such that the clamp can be closed by hand and the clamp is capable of forming a low resistance electrical connection between the microplate and the bus bar.

In some embodiments the clamp is capable of exerting a force of between about 1 500 and 2 000 Newtons.

In some embodiments the clamp is capable of deforming the microplate thereby disrupting an oxide film on the surface of the microplate.

In some embodiments the electrical resistance at the interface of the microplate and the bus bar is less than the resistance of the microplate.

In some embodiments the microplate comprises a a substrate comprising a metallic material for heating a sample during PCR b a barrier layer disposed adjacent to the substrate the barrier layer formed of a first polymeric material and c one or more wells for holding the sample during PCR the one or more wells formed of a second polymeric material sealed to the barrier layer wherein the substrate provides a PCR ramp rate of at least 5 C. second.

In some embodiments the microplate is configured to heat samples upon the flow of electric current through the substrate.

Another aspect of the present disclosure provides a thermocycler comprising the clamp described herein.

Another aspect of the present disclosure provides a system for performing polymerase chain reaction PCR comprising a a plurality of bus bars for electrically mating with a microplate b a microplate the microplate comprising a metallic material for heating a sample during PCR c a clamp the clamp comprising a spring loaded pivot and a ram wherein the clamp is capable of forcing the microplate in electrical communication with and removable from the bus bars and d a current application device for applying current to the microplate.

Another aspect of the present disclosure provides a system for performing polymerase chain reaction PCR comprising a a plurality of bus bars b a microplate comprising a metallic material for heating a sample during PCR wherein the microplate comprises electrodes wherein an individual electrode of said microplate is configured to mate with an individual bus bar of said plurality of bus bars c a clamp comprising a spring loaded pivot coupled to a ram wherein the clamp is capable of forcing the individual electrode of the microplate in electrical contact with said individual bus bar and d a current application device in electrical communication with said bus bars wherein said current application device is for applying current to said microplate.

In some embodiments the microplate comprises finger like projections in electrical communication with the bus bars.

In some embodiments the system further comprises an infrared sensor for measuring the temperature of the microplate.

In some embodiments the system further comprises a plurality of temperature sensors for measuring the temperature of the microplate in a plurality of thermal zones.

In some embodiments the plurality of temperature sensors provide continuous temperature measurements.

In some embodiments the microplate comprises a a substrate comprising said metallic material for heating a sample during polymerase chain reaction PCR b a barrier layer disposed adjacent to the substrate the barrier layer formed of a first polymeric material and c one or more wells for holding said sample during PCR the one or more wells formed of a second polymeric material sealed to the barrier layer. The substrate provides a PCR ramp rate of at least 5 C. second.

In some embodiments the substrate provides a PCR ramp rate of at least 5 C. second s . In an embodiment the PCR ramp rate or heating rate is at least about 10 C. second. In another embodiment the microplate is configured to heat samples upon the flow of electric current through the substrate. In another embodiment the substrate is configured to be separated from PCR samples by 10 micrometers or less. In another embodiment the second polymeric material is heat sealed to the barrier layer. In another embodiment the first polymeric material is chemically compatible with the second polymeric material. In another embodiment the metallic material comprises aluminum or an aluminum alloy. In another embodiment the substrate is for generating heat upon the flow of electrical current through the substrate. In another embodiment the substrate is for increasing the temperature of a sample in the one or more wells at a rate between about 5 C. s and 15 C. s. In another embodiment the metallic material has a resistivity between about 2 10ohm m and 8 10ohm m. In another embodiment the one or more wells comprise at least 24 wells. In another embodiment the one or more wells comprise at least 96 wells.

Another aspect of the present disclosure provides a microplate for PCR comprising a substrate comprising a metallic material for heating PCR samples and a coating layer disposed adjacent to the substrate the coating layer formed of a first polymeric material. The microplate includes one or more wells formed of a second polymeric material sealed to the coating layer for containing PCR samples. The metal substrate provides well to well thermal uniformity of 2 C. 1 C. 0.5 C. 0.2 C. 0.1 C. 0.05 C. or better without an external heating element or a Peltier heating block.

Another aspect of the present disclosure provides a microplate for PCR comprising a substrate comprising a metallic material for heating PCR samples and a coating layer disposed adjacent to the substrate the coating layer formed of a first polymeric material. The microplate includes one or more wells for containing PCR samples the one or more wells formed of a second polymeric material sealed to the coating layer. The substrate provides a heating efficiency sufficient to allow for at least about 1 PCR cycle per minute including fluorescence measurement for every cycle. In an embodiment the substrate provides a heating efficiency sufficient to allow for at least about 0.1 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 200 300 400 500 1000 or more PCR cycles per minute. In another embodiment the substrate comprises an aluminum alloy. In another embodiment the substrate comprises aluminum. In another embodiment the microplate has a thickness of less than about 1 millimeter mm . In another embodiment the microplate has a thickness of less than about 0.5 mm. In another embodiment the coating layer or barrier layer has a thickness of less than about 10 micrometers microns . In another embodiment the microplate further comprises a layer of an infrared radiation normalizing layer at a side of the substrate opposite the coating layer. In another embodiment the radiation normalizing layer has a thickness of less than 5 microns. In another embodiment the barrier layer has a thickness of less than 10 micrometers.

Another aspect of the present disclosure provides a disposable sample holder for use with PCR comprising an aluminum substrate coated with a first polymeric material and a plurality of wells heat sealed to the first polymeric material the plurality of wells formed of a second polymeric material compatible with the first polymeric material.

Another aspect of the present disclosure provides a disposable sample holder for use with PCR having an aluminum containing substrate for providing heat to a plurality of wells of the disposable sample holder the disposable sample holder having a weight less than or equal to about 30 g. In an embodiment the disposable sample holder has a weight less than or equal to about 20 g. In another embodiment the disposable sample holder has a weight less than or equal to about 15 g. In another embodiment the disposable sample holder has a weight less than or equal to about 10 g. In another embodiment the disposable sample holder has a weight less than or equal to about 5 g.

Another aspect of the present disclosure provides a low cost sample holder for use with PCR comprising a substrate formed of a metallic material having a density between about 2.7 g cmand 3.0 g cm. The substrate is configured to provide heat to one or more wells of the low cost sample holder at a heating rate between about 5 C. s and 15 C. s. In an embodiment the substrate comprises aluminum. In another embodiment the low cost sample holder further comprises a barrier layer formed of a first polymeric material over the substrate. In another embodiment the one or more wells are formed of a second polymeric material joined to the first polymeric material.

Another aspect of the present disclosure provides a microplate for PCR comprising a Peltier heating device and a substrate adjacent to the Peltier heating device the substrate comprising a metallic material for heating PCR samples. The microplate further comprises a barrier layer adjacent to the substrate the barrier layer formed of a first polymeric material. One or more wells are disposed adjacent to the substrate the one or more wells for containing PCR samples. The one or more wells are formed of a second polymeric material sealed to the barrier layer. In an embodiment the first polymeric material is different from the second polymeric material. In another embodiment the first polymeric material is the same as the second polymeric material. In another embodiment the substrate provides a PCR ramp rate of at least 5 C. second. In another embodiment the substrate provides a PCR ramp rate of at least 10 C. second.

Another aspect of the present disclosure provides a microplate for PCR comprising a substrate comprising a metallic material for heating PCR samples and a barrier layer adjacent to the substrate the barrier layer formed of a first polymeric material. The microplate further comprises one or more wells adjacent to the substrate the one or more wells for containing PCR samples. The one or more wells are formed of a second polymeric material sealed to the barrier layer. The microplate is configured to come in electrical contact with one or more electrical contact e.g. bus bars at one or more corrugated surfaces of the substrate. In an embodiment the first polymeric material is different from the second polymeric material. In another embodiment the first polymeric material is the same as the second polymeric material. In another embodiment the one or more corrugated surfaces are disposed at finger like projections also fingers herein of the substrate. In another embodiment the one or more corrugated surfaces are formed from the fingers. In another embodiment the substrate provides a PCR ramp rate of at least 5 C. second. In another embodiment the substrate provides a PCR ramp rate of at least 10 C. second.

Another aspect of the present disclosure provides a microplate for PCR comprising a heating device and a substrate adjacent to the heating device the substrate comprising a metallic material for heating PCR samples upon the flow of current through the substrate. The microplate further comprises a barrier layer adjacent to the substrate the barrier layer formed of a first polymeric material. One or more wells are disposed adjacent to the substrate the one or more wells for containing PCR samples. The one or more wells are formed of a second polymeric material sealed e.g. heat sealed clamped to the barrier layer. In an embodiment the heating device is a Peltier heating device or a heating clamp. In another embodiment the first polymeric material is different from the second polymeric material. In another embodiment the first polymeric material is the same as the second polymeric material.

Another aspect of the present disclosure provides a method for conducting PCR wherein data from the PCR and instructions for processing the data are located on a removable device. In an embodiment both control and analysis instructions are provided in the removable device to allow a user to develop an experiment and analyze the results independently from a thermal cycler used for conducting PCR. In another embodiment the removable device is a universal serial bus device. In another embodiment the removable device is a removable memory disk. In another embodiment the removable device is a compact flash a serial advanced technology attachment interface or a personal computer memory card international association interface. In another embodiment the instructions on the removable device enable an identification of the type of hardware interfacing with the removable device and provide predetermined commands and or instructions for performing PCR on the hardware.

Another aspect of the present disclosure provides a system for performing PCR comprising a plurality of bus bars for electrically mating with a microplate or sample holder and a microplate or sample holder as described above or elsewhere herein alone or in combination. The microplate or sample holder is in electrical communication with and removable from the plurality of bus bars. The system further comprises a current application device for applying current to the microplate or sample holder. In an embodiment the microplate or sample holder is in ohmic contact with the plurality of bus bars. In another embodiment the microplate or sample holder comprises finger like projections in electrical communication or electrical contact with the bus bars. In another embodiment the finger like projections have surfaces comprising crinkles. In another embodiment the system further comprises a temperature sensor such as an infrared sensor for measuring the temperature of the microplate or sample holder. In another embodiment the system further comprises a plurality of temperature sensors for measuring the temperature of the microplate or sample holder in a plurality of thermal zones. In another embodiment the system comprises at least nine sensors for measuring the temperature of the microplate or sample holder in nine thermal zones. In another embodiment the plurality of temperature sensors provide continuous temperature measurements. In another embodiment temperature variation across the microplate or sample holder is less than about 0.5 C.

Another aspect of the present disclosure provides a method for conducting PCR comprising providing a microplate or sample holder as described above or elsewhere herein alone or in combination and conducting PCR on the sample. During PCR the sample is heated at a ramp rate of at least about 5 C. second. In an embodiment the method further comprises providing a sample to the microplate or sample holder before conducting PCR. In an embodiment during PCR the sample is heated at a ramp rate of at least about 0.1 C. second. In another embodiment during PCR the sample is heated at a ramp rate of at least about 0.5 C. second. In another embodiment during PCR the sample is heated at a ramp rate of at least about 1 C. second. In another embodiment during PCR the sample is heated at a ramp rate of at least about 5 C. second. In another embodiment during PCR the sample is heated at a ramp rate of at least about 10 C. second. In another embodiment during PCR the sample is heated at a ramp rate of at least about 15 C. second.

Another aspect of the present disclosure provides a method for performing PCR comprising providing a microplate or sample holder as described above or elsewhere herein alone or in combination and conducting PCR on the sample. During PCR the microplate or sample holder has well to well thermal uniformity of at least about 2 C. 1 C. 0.5 C. 0.2 C. 0.1 C. 0.05 C. without an external heating element or a Peltier heating block. In an embodiment the method further comprises providing a sample to the microplate or sample holder before conducting PCR.

Another aspect of the present disclosure provides a method for conducting PCR comprising providing a microplate or sample holder as described above or elsewhere herein alone or in combination and conducting PCR on the sample at a rate of at least about 0.1 PCR cycles per minute. In an embodiment the method further comprises providing a sample to the microplate or sample holder before conducting PCR. In another embodiment PCR is conducted on the sample at a rate of at least about 1 PCR cycle per minute. In another embodiment PCR is conducted on the sample at a rate of at least about 2 PCR cycles per minute. In another embodiment PCR is conducted on the sample at a rate of at least about 3 PCR cycles per minute. In another embodiment PCR is conducted on the sample at a rate of at least about 6 PCR cycles per minute. In another embodiment the method further comprises performing fluorescence measurement in an individual PCR cycle. In another embodiment during PCR the microplate or sample holder has well to well thermal uniformity of at least about 2 C. 1 C. 0.5 C. 0.2 C. 0.1 C. 0.05 C. without an external heating element or a Peltier heating block. In another embodiment during PCR the sample is heated at a ramp rate of at least about 0.1 C. second. In another embodiment during PCR the sample is heated at a ramp rate of at least about 0.5 C. second. In another embodiment during PCR the sample is heated at a ramp rate of at least about 1 C. second. In another embodiment during PCR the sample is heated at a ramp rate of at least about 5 C. second. In another embodiment during PCR the sample is heated at a ramp rate of at least about 10 C. second. In another embodiment during PCR the sample is heated at a ramp rate of at least about 15 C. second.

Additional aspects and advantages of the present disclosure will become readily apparent to those skilled in this art from the following detailed description wherein only illustrative embodiments of the present disclosure are shown and described. As will be realized the present disclosure is capable of other and different embodiments and its several details are capable of modifications in various obvious respects all without departing from the disclosure. Accordingly the drawings and description are to be regarded as illustrative in nature and not as restrictive.

All publications patents and patent applications mentioned in this specification are herein incorporated by reference to the same extent as if each individual publication patent or patent application was specifically and individually indicated to be incorporated by reference.

While preferable embodiments of the invention have been shown and described herein it will be obvious to those skilled in the art that such embodiments are provided by way of example only. Numerous variations changes and substitutions will now occur to those skilled in the art without departing from the invention. It should be understood that various alternatives to the embodiments of the invention described herein may be employed in practicing the invention.

In some embodiments microplate assemblies also microplates herein are provided for polymerase chain reaction PCR . Microplates of the present disclosure may provide various advantages over current PCR systems as rapid and accurate thermal control during PCR. In some embodiments microplates are provided that can perform at least about 0.1 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 200 300 400 500 1000 PCR cycles per minute in some cases with fluorescence measurements every cycle. In another embodiment microplates are provided having an average heating ramp rate of at least about 0.01 C. second or 0.1 C. second or 1 C. second or 2 C. second or 3 C. second or 4 C. second or 5 C. second or 6 C. second or 7 C. second or 8 C. second or 9 C. second or 10 C. second or 11 C. second or 12 C. second or 13 C. second or 14 C. second or 15 C. second or 16 C. second or 17 C. second or 18 C. second or 19 C. second or 20 C. second or 25 C. second or 30 C. second or 35 C. second or 40 C. second or 45 C. second or 50 C. second 100 C. second or more. In another embodiment microplates are provided having active control over thermal uniformity producing thermal control to within 2 C. 1 C. 0.5 C. 0.2 C. 0.1 C. 0.05 C. or better.

In some embodiments microplates may be consumable. In another embodiment microplates may be recyclable. In another embodiment microplates may be reusable. In another embodiment microplates may be biodegradable. In another embodiment the microplates may be non consumable.

An aspect of the present disclosure provides a microplate for polymerase chain reaction PCR . In embodiments the microplate comprises a substrate including a metallic material for heating PCR samples and a barrier layer disposed over the substrate the barrier layer formed of a first polymeric material. The microplate further includes one or more wells for containing PCR samples the one or more wells formed of a second polymeric material sealed to the barrier layer. In some cases the first polymeric material is different from the second polymeric material. In an example the first polymeric material has a different glass transition temperature than the second polymeric material. In other cases the first polymeric material is the same as the second polymeric material. In an example the first polymeric material has the same or substantially the same glass transition temperature as the second polymeric material.

In some embodiments the substrate provides a PCR ramp rate or heating rate of at least about 0.01 C. second or 0.1 C. second or 1 C. second or 2 C. second or 3 C. second or 4 C. second or 5 C. second or 6 C. second or 7 C. second or 8 C. second or 9 C. second or 10 C. second or 11 C. second or 12 C. second or 13 C. second or 14 C. second or 15 C. second or 16 C. second or 17 C. second or 18 C. second or 19 C. second or 20 C. second or 25 C. second or 30 C. second or 35 C. second or 40 C. second or 45 C. second or 50 C. second or 100 C. second or more.

In some embodiments heating of PCR samples may be achieved by passing electric current through the substrate. In another embodiment heating of PCR samples may be achieved by passing direct current DC through the substrate. In another embodiment heating of PCR samples may be achieved by passing alternating current AC through the substrate.

In some embodiments the substrate is separated from a PCR sample by 1 micrometer micron or less or 2 microns or less or 3 microns or less or 4 microns or less or 5 microns or less or 6 microns or less or 7 microns or less or 8 microns or less or 9 microns or less or 10 microns or less or 11 microns or less or 12 microns or less or 13 microns or less or 14 microns or less or 15 microns or less or 16 microns or less or 17 microns or less or 18 microns or less or 19 microns or less or 20 microns or less. In other embodiments the substrate is separated from a PCR sample by at least about 0.1 microns or 1 micron or 2 microns or 3 microns or 4 microns or 5 microns or 10 microns or 15 microns or 20 microns or 30 microns or 40 microns or 50 microns or 100 microns or 500 microns or 1000 microns or 5000 microns or 10 000 microns or more.

In some embodiments the second polymeric material is heat sealed to the barrier layer. In another embodiment the first polymeric material is chemically compatible with the second polymeric material. In another embodiment the metallic material comprises aluminum or an aluminum alloy.

In some embodiments the substrate is for generating heat upon the flow of electrical current through the substrate. In another embodiment the substrate is for generating heat upon the flow of direct current DC through the substrate. In another embodiment the substrate is for generating heat upon the flow of alternating current AC through the substrate.

In some embodiments the substrate is for increasing the temperature of a sample in the one or more wells at a rate between about 0.01 C. second and 100 C. second or between about 0.1 C. second and 50 C. second or between about 1 C. second and 35 C. second or between about 3 C. second and 25 C. second or between about 5 C. second and 15 C. second.

In some embodiments the substrate includes a metallic material for heating PCR samples. The metallic material may have a resistivity between about 5 10ohm m and 1 10ohm m or between about 1 10ohm m and 1 10ohm m or between about 2 10ohm m and 8 10ohm m.

In some embodiments the microplate can include one or more wells. In some cases the microplate can include 1 well or 2 wells or 3 wells or 4 wells or 5 wells or 6 wells or 7 wells or 8 wells or 9 wells or 10 wells or 11 wells or 12 wells or 13 wells or 14 wells or 15 wells or 16 wells or 17 wells or 18 wells or 19 wells or 20 wells or 21 wells or 22 wells or 23 wells or 24 wells or 25 wells or 26 wells or 27 wells or 28 wells or 29 wells or 30 wells or 31 wells or 32 wells or 33 wells or 34 wells or 35 wells or 36 wells or 37 wells or 38 wells or 39 wells or 40 wells or 41 wells or 42 wells or 43 wells or 44 wells or 45 wells or 46 wells or 47 wells or 48 wells or 49 wells or 50 wells or 51 wells or 52 wells or 53 wells or 54 wells or 55 wells or 56 wells or 57 wells or 58 wells or 59 wells or 60 wells or 61 wells or 62 wells or 63 wells or 64 wells or 65 wells or 66 wells or 67 wells or 68 wells or 69 wells or 70 wells or 71 wells or 72 wells or 73 wells or 74 wells or 75 wells or 76 wells or 77 wells or 78 wells or 79 wells or 80 wells or 81 wells or 82 wells or 83 wells or 84 wells or 85 wells or 86 wells or 87 wells or 88 wells or 89 wells or 90 wells or 91 wells or 92 wells or 93 wells or 94 wells or 95 wells or 96 wells or 97 wells or 98 wells or 99 wells or 100 wells or 101 wells or 102 wells or 103 wells or 104 wells or 105 wells or 106 wells or 107 wells or 108 wells or 109 wells or 110 wells or 111 wells or 112 wells or 113 wells or 114 wells or 115 wells or 116 wells or 117 wells or 118 wells or 119 wells or 120 wells or 121 wells or 122 wells or 123 wells or 124 wells or 125 wells or 126 wells or 127 wells or 128 wells or 129 wells or 130 wells or more. In some embodiments the microplate can include 1 or more or 5 or more or 10 or more or 15 or more or 20 or more or 25 or more or 30 or more or 35 or more or 40 or more or 45 or more or 50 or more or 60 or more or 70 or more or 80 or more or 90 or more or 100 or more or 110 or more or 120 or more or 130 or more or 140 or more or 150 or more or 200 or more or 300 or more or 400 or more or 500 or more or 1000 or more wells.

In an embodiment the microplate may include 24 wells. In another embodiment the microplate may include 48 wells. In another embodiment the microplate can include 54 wells. In another embodiment the microplate may include 72 wells. In another embodiment the microplate may include 96 wells. The microplate can be disposable and or recyclable.

In some embodiments the microplate may include 24 wells each well having a volume between 5 micro liter l and 40 l fill or 96 wells each well having a volume between about 0.5 l and 5 l.

In other embodiments a microplate for polymerase chain reaction PCR comprises a substrate comprising a metallic material for heating PCR samples a coating layer also barrier layer herein disposed over the substrate the coating layer formed of a first polymeric material and one or more wells formed of a second polymeric material sealed to the coating layer for containing PCR samples. In some embodiments the metal substrate provides well to well thermal uniformity of 2 C. or better or 1 C. or better or 0.5 C. or better or 0.2 C. or better or 0.1 C. or better or 0.05 C. or better without the need for an external heating element or a Peltier heating block.

In other embodiments a microplate for polymerase chain reaction PCR comprises a substrate comprising a metallic material for heating PCR samples a coating layer disposed over the substrate the coating layer formed of a first polymeric material and one or more wells for containing PCR samples the one or more wells formed of a second polymeric material sealed to the coating layer. In some embodiments the metal substrate provides a heating efficiency sufficient to allow for at least 0.1 PCR cycles per minute or at least 1 PCR cycle per minute or at least 2 PCR cycles per minute or at least 3 PCR cycles per minute or at least 4 PCR cycles per minute or at least 5 PCR cycles per minute or at least 6 PCR cycles per minute or at least 7 PCR cycles per minute or at least 8 PCR cycles per minute or at least 9 PCR cycles per minute or at least 10 PCR cycles per minute or at least 20 PCR cycles per minute or at least 30 PCR cycles per minute or at least 40 PCR cycles per minute or at least 50 PCR cycles per minute or at least 60 PCR cycles per minute or at least 70 PCR cycles per minute or at least 80 PCR cycles per minute or at least 90 PCR cycles per minute or at least 100 PCR cycles per minute or at least 200 PCR cycles per minute or at least 300 PCR cycles per minute or at least 400 PCR cycles per minute or at least 500 PCR cycles per minute or at least 1000 PCR cycles per minute in some cases including fluorescence measurement for every cycle.

In some embodiments the microplate further includes a layer of an infrared radiation IR normalizing material at a side of the substrate opposite the contact layer. The IR normalizing layer may aid in increasing IR emissivity thereby providing for more efficient thermal regulation of the microplate and the one or more wells during PCR. In another embodiment the microplate may comprise a layer of an IR normalizing material at a side of the substrate opposite the coating layer. In some embodiments the IR normalizing layer may have a thickness less than about 10 micrometers microns or less than about 5 microns or less than about 1 micron or less than about 0.5 microns or less than about 0.1 microns.

In some embodiments the microplate may have a thickness less than about 0.1 mm or less than about 0.2 mm or less than about 0.3 mm or less than about 0.4 mm or less than about 0.5 mm or less than about 0.6 mm or less than about 0.7 mm or less than about 0.8 mm or less than about 0.9 mm or less than about 1 mm. In another embodiment the microplate may have a thickness between about 0.1 mm and 100 mm or between about 0.2 mm and 20 mm or between about 0.3 mm and 10 mm or between about 0.4 mm and 0.6 mm.

In some embodiments the coating layer may have a thickness less than about 10 micrometers microns or less than about 5 microns or less than about 1 micron or less than about 0.5 microns or less than about 0.1 microns.

Another aspect of the present disclosure provides disposable sample holders for use with polymerase chain reaction PCR . The disposable sample holders in some cases are formed of a recyclable material such as a polymeric material a metallic material e.g. aluminum or a composite material.

In some embodiments a disposable sample holder comprises an aluminum substrate coated with a first polymeric material and a plurality of wells heat sealed to the first polymeric material. The plurality of wells can be formed of a second polymeric material compatible with the first polymeric material.

In some cases a disposable sample holder comprises an aluminum containing substrate for providing heat to a plurality of wells of the disposable sample holder. The disposable sample holder can have a weight less than or equal to about 100 g or 90 g or 80 g or 70 g or 60 g or 50 g or 40 g or 30 g or 20 g or 15 g or 10 g or 5 g or 4 g or 3 g or 2 g or 1 g or lower. In some embodiments the disposable sample holder is a single use sample holder.

Another aspect of the present disclosure provides a low cost sample holder for use with polymerase chain reaction PCR . The low cost sample holder can comprise a substrate formed of a metallic material having a density between about 2.0 g cmand 4.0 g cm or 2.7 g cmand 3.0 g cm. The substrate can be configured to provide heat to one or more wells of the low cost sample holder at a heating rate between about 0.01 C. second and 100 C. second or between about 0.1 C. second and 50 C. second or between about 1 C. second and 35 C. second or between about 3 C. second and 25 C. second or between about 5 C. second and 15 C. second. In some embodiments the substrate includes aluminum. In some situations the low cost sample holder further includes a barrier layer formed of a first polymeric material over the substrate. The one or more wells of the low cost sample holder may be formed of a second polymeric material joined to the first polymeric material.

In some cases the moulding can be formed from a single piece polymeric material. The moulding in some cases is formed by injection moulding. In some situations the moulding can be formed of a plurality of pieces attached to one another such as by welding or with the aid of an adhesive .

With continued reference to the wells are at least partly defined by sidewalls of the moulding at least partially formed of a polymeric material. The moulding may have a bottom surface of the moulding resting against the metal plate . This can provide for efficient thermal control in each of the wells.

In some embodiments the moulding can be secured to the metal plate with the aid of a bonding material such as an adhesive. In other embodiments the moulding is secured to the metal plate with the aid of a clamp or fastener not shown .

Another aspect of the present disclosure provides a microplate or consumable having wells for polymerase chain reaction PCR heating. In some embodiments the consumable can be heated by passing an electrical current through the microplate. The microplate can be heated for a predetermined time period. Sample processing including heating can be regulated by a computer system having one or more processors for executing machine readable instructions stored in a memory location of the computer system.

Heat can be generated by passing a current through the microplate of . Heating in some cases is resistive heating. The rate of heating or cooling can be adjusted by varying the current passing through at least a portion of the microplate or varying the electrical potential applied across the microplate.

In some embodiments a disposable microplate also consumable herein may include a coated metal plate with a polymer moulding attached to the metal plate. The metal plate may be coated with a polymeric material that is compatible with the moulding. The polymer moulding may be formed of a polymeric material. The consumable may in itself be a heating element. The consumable may be directly heated by passing electrical current through the metal plate. The consumable may include liquid samples or assays that are in close contact with the plate separated from the plate by a layer of polymer such that heat transfer to and from the samples is fast and controllable. In some embodiments the layer of polymer may have a thickness of about 10 microns or other thickness provided herein see above .

In some embodiments the consumable may be heated by passing electrical current through the consumable along a number of different possible electric flow paths. In another embodiment the contact fingers at the ends of the plate are connected to a system of bus bars. These bus bars are the single turn secondary windings of four transformers. The consumable is configured to rest on or come into electrical contact with the bus bars. In some embodiments the consumable is removable from the bus bars. In another embodiment a fixed plate of similar geometry to the described consumable is permanently attached to the bus bars.

In some embodiments the low current primary drive to each transformer is proportionally controlled using phase angle triggering of triac devices. Also by using twin primary windings the relative phase of the drive to each transformer can be controlled.

In some embodiments current passing through the plate are high and voltage applied to the plate are low. In some embodiments current passing through the plate is up to about 50 A or 100 A or 150 A or 200 A or 300 A or 400 A or 500 A or 600 A or 700 A or 800 A or 900 A or 1000 A per transformer. In another embodiment voltage applied to the plate is between about 0.01 volts V and 20 V or between about 0.1 V and 10 V or between about 0.1 V and 1 V or between about 0.25 V and 0.5 V.

In some embodiments heating is by resistive heating. In some cases resistive heating is with the aid of direct current DC . In other cases resistive heating is with the aid of alternating current AC .

A microplate can include N rows by M columns of wells wherein N and M are integers greater than zero. In some cases N is at least 1 or 2 or 3 or 4 or 5 or 6 or 7 or 8 or 9 or 10 or 20 or more and M is at least 1 or 2 or 3 or 4 or 5 or 6 or 7 or 8 or 9 or 10 or 20 or more. The rows can be orthogonal to the columns or may be angularly disposed in relation to the columns at an angle greater than 0 and less than 90 in relation to the columns. For instance the rows can be angularly disposed at an angle of about 45 in relation to the columns.

For example a microplate can include 3 rows by 3 columns 3 3 of wells or 9 total wells. As another example a microplate can include 3 3 4 6 6 4 9 6 or 6 9 wells. shows a microplate having 6 rows by 9 columns of wells or 54 total wells. The wells are formed of a polymeric material and are disposed adjacent to a substrate formed of a metallic material e.g. aluminum . The substrate comprises a plurality of fingers or finger like projections . Each finger has a top surface facing the wells and a bottom surface. A top surface of each of the fingers or micro plates has a wave pattern that defines a crinkle on the top surface. A bottom surface not shown of each of the fingers can have a wave pattern defining a crinkle. At least a portion of the top and bottom surfaces of the fingers are configured to come in contact with bus bars for facilitating the flow of electrical current through the microplate during PCR. In some cases the crinkles can be precluded. In other cases the surfaces of the fingers are roughened.

In some embodiments a crinkle has a corrugation between about 0.1 micrometers microns and 1 centimeter or 1 micron and 10 millimeters mm . In other embodiments a crinkle has a corrugation of at least about 0.1 microns or 1 micron or 10 microns or 100 microns or 1 mm or 10 mm or 100 mm.

In some embodiments a microplate includes a plurality of wells adjacent to a substrate. The substrate is formed of a metallic material such as aluminum and the wells are at least partly defined by a polymer matrix. In some cases the polymer matrix defines each individual well. In other cases the polymer matrix defines the one or more sidewalls of a well but a bottom portion of a well is defined by the substrate. In some cases the bottom portion of a well comprises a layer of a polymeric material adjacent to the substrate.

The microplate includes finger like projections see for enabling the microplate to come in electrical communication with bus bars of a system for facilitating the flow of electrical current through the microplate. In some cases a resistance between the microplate and the plurality of bus bars is minimized and in some cases rendered ohmic with the aid of wrinkles or ridges on surfaces of the finger like projections configured to come in contact with the bus bars. The finger like projections of the microplate can be tightly clamped to the bus bars.

In some cases a microplate comprises fingers formed to have a wave pattern on their surfaces thereby forming a crinkle. The crinkle can aid in removing any oxide layer formed on one or more surfaces of the fingers which aids in improving the electrical contact between the fingers and the bus bars.

In some cases a system for facilitating PCR can include a microplate as described herein and a temperature sensor for measuring the temperature in one or more zones of the microplate. The temperature sensor can be one or more thermocouples in electrical contact with the one or more zones. A thermocouple can be in electrical contact with a thermal zone. Alternatively the temperature sensor can be an infrared sensor for measuring the temperature of one or more zones of the microplate. The infrared IR sensor can be a non contact IR sensor and configured to measure the temperature of a metallic substrate of the microplate.

The system can include at least 1 or 2 or 3 or 4 or 5 or 6 or 7 or 8 or 9 or 10 or 15 or 20 or 30 or 40 or 50 or 100 or more sensors for measuring the temperature of a microplate. The number of sensors used for temperature measurements can be equal to the number of thermal zones in the microplate. For example the system can include nine sensors for measuring the temperature in each of nine thermal zones of a microplate.

A temperature sensor can provide continuous measurement of the temperature in a thermal zone of a microplate. In some cases this can provide for calibration to deliver a more accurate reading. Alternatively a temperature sensor can provide intermittent temperature measurements such as a temperature measurement at least every 0.01 seconds 0.1 seconds 1 second 10 seconds 30 seconds 1 minute 10 minutes 30 minutes 1 hour 2 hours 3 hours 4 hours 5 hours 6 hours 12 hours 1 day 2 days or more. The sensors can provide feedback to determine how much heat is required for a particular zone of the plate.

In some embodiments the temperature variation across a microplate is less than about 10 C. or 5 C. or 1 C. or 0.9 C. or 0.8 C. or 0.7 C. or 0.6 C. or 0.5 C. or 0.4 C. or 0.3 C. or 0.2 C. or 0.1 C. or lower. This enables the definition of temperature or thermal zones for accurate thermal control in each zone.

Microplates provided herein are configured for heating to enable PCR. Some embodiments provided microplates in electrical communication with a source of electrons to enable heating which may be provided with the aid of an electrical current current application member. Together a microplate a current application device and any other apparatuses e.g. bus bars for bringing the microplate in electrical contact with the current application device define an electrical flow path or an electrical circuit circuit . The current application device can be configured for either DC or AC modes of operation.

With reference to a consumable center with 24 wells is provided in accordance with an embodiment of the invention. Power supply units PSU are also illustrated. The PSUs may be AC or DC power supply units. illustrate various transformer drive patterns for providing heat to the consumable. In some embodiments a system is provided using a 1 or 2 or 3 or 4 or 5 or 6 or 7 or 8 or 9 or 10 or 11 or 12 or 13 or 14 or 15 or 16 or 17 or 18 or 19 or 20 or 21 or 22 or 23 or 24 or more transformer drive patterns. In some embodiments a system is provided using 12 transformer driver patterns. The arrows associated with the PSUs in indicate the relative phasing of the active PSUs in the corresponding mode. The PSU or PSUs without an associated arrow are off in that mode. A particular heating pattern is a function of the phasing of each of the PSUs.

With reference to in a first configuration of relative phasing of PSU PSU PSU and PSU heat is provided to a top portion of the consumable. With reference to in a second configuration of relative phasing of PSU PSU PSU and PSU heat is provided to side portions of the consumable. With reference to in a third configuration of relative phasing of PSU PSU PSU and PSU heat is provided to a left side when looking from the top of the consumable. With reference to in a fourth configuration of relative phasing of PSU PSU PSU and PSU heat is provided to all or substantially all of the consumable.

In embodiments the heating pattern of a consumable may be the product of a balance between heating rates and cooling rates of the consumable. That is if the center of the consumable is cooled more rapidly that it is heated a cooling effect will ensue. If the sides of the consumable are heated more rapidly than the center the center will remain cooler relative to the sides of the consumable. In embodiments heating rates and cooling may be dependent on various factors such as e.g. the modes of heat transfer i.e. conductive convective or radiative and the interplay between the modes heat transfer coefficients thermal mass initial temperature and PSU power.

With reference to the flow of current may produce a predetermined heating pattern. The use of different current paths through the metal plate may enable use of the consumable as plate heating zones for zonal control enabling active control of thermal uniformity.

In some embodiments the plate is cooled from below by means of high pressure air jets such as 1 or more or 2 or more or 3 or more or 4 or more or 5 or more or 10 or more high pressure air jets. The jets may be switched on and off individually and air pressure may be controlled to give proportionality in cooling. This may effectively give zonal control over the applied cooling power. The heating system may also be used even when cooling to actively maintain overall thermal uniformity. In some embodiments compressed air may be supplied from a building air supply or a small local compressor or by using 4 miniature air pumps with pulse width modulation PWM control. In all cases the pressure employed is controlled between 0 psi and 50 psi and the air is directed onto the bottom of the plate by nozzles such as 4 small 0.7 mm diameter nozzles which produce high velocity jets to penetrate the boundary layer of the flat plate.

In some embodiments in order to operate at low voltage and low plate resistance contact between the removable plate e.g. microplate and the fixed bus bars is critical.

In some embodiments the plate when located in the machine not only provides the container for the test samples it is also a resistive heating element. In some instances the ends of the plate are crinkled. Heating can be induced upon the flow of an electrical current through the metallic e.g. aluminum base of the plate. In some cases the connections between the plate and the rest of the circuit need to be of low resistance when compared to the resistance of the plate so that the induced heating will not occur in the rest of the circuit.

To achieve a low electrical resistance the metallic fingers or finger like projections e.g. aluminum fingers of the plate can be tightly clamped to high conductivity bus bars of a current application device. Such clamping can provide ohmic near ohmic or substantially ohmic contact between the fingers and the bus bars which can provide for improved heating. In addition to the force required to tightly clamp the fingers the fingers can be formed to have a wave pattern on their surface e.g. one or more crinkles such that as they are clamped flat there can be a wiping action on the surface of the plate which breaks down any oxide e.g. metal oxide or contamination that may have coated the surface. This advantageously provides preferable electrical connection to the fingers.

There are a number of elements to this arrangement such as the provision of high force. The force provided by the clamp in some cases can be greater than 1 Newton N 2 N 3 N 4 N 5 N 6 N 7 N 8 N 9 N 10 N 20 N 30 N 40 N 50 N 60 N 70 N 80 N 90 N 100 N 200 N 300 N 400 N 500 N 600 N 700 N 800 N 900 N 1000 N 2000 N 3000 N 4000 N 5000 N or 10 000 N on a repeatedly made connection. In some instances this is achieved by using an over center toggle type clamp. In some embodiments the clamp has a built in spring system which reduces the precision needed to set up the clamp.

Operation of the clamp can force the microplate into contact with the bus bar. In an example during use a user moves the handle along a linear direction which causes the ram to come in contact with a bus bar. Such action can clamp the bus bar against microplate. Upon completion of heating the handle can be moved in a reverse direction to decouple or dislodge the microplate from the bus bars.

The handle can be operated manually or with the aid of an actuation mechanism such as for example a motor. In some examples the handle is coupled to a motor and a system for automating PCR moves the handle along a linear direction to clamp the microplate against the bus bar and to release the microplate from the bus bar once PCR is complete.

The clamp can be part of a thermocycler. The thermocycler can include a current application device that is configured to provide an electrical current to a microplate through bus bars in electrical contact with the microplate. The clamp can be actuated with the aid of a motor of the thermocycler that is coupled to the handle . The thermocycler can include a computer processor that can execute machine executable code to use the clamp to provide electrical contact between the microplate and the bus bars.

The present disclosure provides a method for forming a low resistance electrical connection between a microplate and a bus bar in a thermocycler. The method comprises clamping the microplate to the bus bar with the clamp comprising the handle and a ram .

In some embodiments the clamp is an over center toggle type clamp. In some embodiments the clamp provides control over the force applied by the ram over a range of adjustments. In some embodiments the clamp is adjusted such that the clamp can be closed by hand and the clamp is capable of forming a low resistance electrical connection between the microplate and the bus bar.

In some instances the clamp becomes worn over time e.g. from repeated use . In one aspect use of a spring loaded pivot in the clamp allows the clamp to exert a suitable force when the clamp becomes warn. In one aspect use of a spring loaded pivot in the clamp decreases or eliminates the need to adjust the clamp when the clamp becomes worn.

In some embodiments the clamp is capable of exerting any suitable force e.g. suitable for deforming the crinkles and or forming a suitable low resistivity electrical connection . In some embodiments the clamp is capable of exerting a force of about 100 about 200 about 400 about 600 about 800 about 1 000 about 1 250 about 1 500 about 1 750 about 2 000 about 2 500 about 3 000 about 4 000 Newtons and the like. In some embodiments the clamp is capable of exerting a force of at least 100 at least 200 at least 400 at least 600 at least 800 at least 1 000 at least 1 250 at least 1 500 at least 1 750 at least 2 000 at least 2 500 at least 3 000 at least 4 000 Newtons and the like. In some embodiments the clamp is capable of exerting a force of at most 100 at most 200 at most 400 at most 600 at most 800 at most 1 000 at most 1 250 at most 1 500 at most 1 750 at most 2 000 at most 2 500 at most 3 000 at most 4 000 Newtons and the like. In some embodiments the clamp is capable of exerting a force between 100 and 4 000 Newtons between 1 000 and 3 000 Newtons between 1 500 and 2 000 Newtons and the like.

In an embodiment the plate is clamped to gold plated contacts on the bus bars using 6 miniature hydraulic rams driven by a master cylinder actuated by an electric ball screw. The rams may each exert a force of at least about 1 Newton N 2 N 3 N 4 N 5 N 6 N 7 N 8 N 9 N 10 N 20 N 30 N 40 N 50 N 60 N 70 N 80 N 90 N 100 N 200 N 300 N 400 N 500 N 600 N 700 N 800 N 900 N 1000 N 2000 N 3000 N 4000 N 5000 N or 10 000 N which can produce sufficient deformation of the aluminum to disrupt the oxide film that may be found on the surface of the metal and provide substantially low resistance contacts between the plate and the bus bars. Other clamping methods may be used such as for example hydraulic or screw clamping.

In some instances slight doming of the clamping ram provides an annular ring of contact rather than a point or face contact which delivers both high contact force and preferable contact area to help provide repeatable low resistance connections. Putting undulations or preform in the surface of the plate in the area of the clamp can enable the material to move and wipe across clamping surfaces as it is crushed flat by the clamp ram. This process of wiping can be used on various connectors to produce low resistance contacts. In some cases the preform may be crushed. The size and depth of the preform may be important in determining the wiping action. With the aid of crinkles the resistant between the microplate and the bus bars can be minimized and in some cases minimized to below the resistance of an electrical circuit having the microplate and a current application device.

In some embodiments the clamp is capable of deforming the microplate thereby disrupting an oxide film on the surface of the microplate. In some embodiments the electrical resistance at the interface of the microplate and the bus bar is less than the resistance of the microplate. In some embodiments the microplate is consumable.

An aspect of the present disclosure provides a system for performing polymerase chain reaction PCR comprising a a plurality of bus bars for electrically mating with a microplate b a microplate the microplate comprising a metallic material for heating a sample during PCR c a clamp the clamp comprising a spring loaded pivot and a ram wherein the clamp is capable of forcing the microplate in electrical communication with and removable from the bus bars and d a current application device for applying current to the microplate.

In some embodiments the microplate is in ohmic contact with the plurality of bus bars. In some embodiments the microplate comprises finger like projections in electrical communication with the bus bars. In some embodiments the finger like projections have surfaces comprising crinkles. In some embodiments the system further comprises an infrared sensor for measuring the temperature of the microplate. In some embodiments the system further comprises a plurality of temperature sensors for measuring the temperature of the microplate in a plurality of thermal zones. In some embodiments the plurality of temperature sensors provide continuous temperature measurements. In some embodiments temperature variation across the microplate is less than 0.5 C.

In some embodiments the temperature of the plate may be measured from below the plate using a 3 3 array of thermopile type non contact sensors. In another embodiment temperature measurements can be made with the aid of at least 1 or 2 or 3 or 4 or 5 or 6 or 7 or 8 or 9 or 10 or 11 or 12 or 13 or 14 or 15 or 16 or 17 or 18 or 19 or 20 or 21 or 22 or 23 or 24 or 25 or 26 or 27 or 28 or 29 or 30 or 31 or 32 or 33 or 34 or 35 or 36 or more thermopile type non contact sensors. In another embodiment temperature measurements can be made with a number of sensors selected to match the number of wells.

In some embodiments there is no one to one mapping between the sensors and the heating zones. In another embodiment a computer uses information from the sensors to select the optimum transformer drive pattern from a predetermined number of programmed options such as 12 programmed options. In another embodiment the transformer drive pattern is updated about 50 times per second. In another embodiment the transformer drive pattern is updated at least about 5 or 10 or 20 or 30 or 40 or 50 or 60 or 70 or 80 or 90 or 100 times or more per second.

Infra red thermopile measurement of temperature one embodiment uses an array of non contact infra red sensors to measure the temperature of the plate s aluminum base plate. There are 9 sensors in our current array which are used to measure the temperature in nine zones of the plate. These temperatures are used to control the heating system and produce the heating pattern desired. The infra red sensors are industry standard parts but they only can measure as standard to an accuracy of about 1 degree. It is desirable to obtain times that accuracy of measurement thus one embodiment individually calibrates each sensor across a range then uses this information to calculate a more accurate reading. This calibration of a sensor requires a number of points to be measured and these are used to populate an algorithm which extrapolates between them to give a value that is more accurate. This embodiment is advantageous based at least in part on the use of the calibration and the algorithm in combination to deliver a more accurate reading.

Heating control algorithm the heating system consists of a multi zone resistive heating element which can be heated in a number of different ways to provide heat into multiple zones. The temperature of the zones is measured by an array of non contact infra red sensors which provide continuous measurement. Control of the system is complex because you can t heat just one zone without heating others both directly by flowing current through the zone and indirectly through heat transfer from neighboring zones. An algorithm has been developed that provides this complex control using feedback from the thermal sensors to determine how much heat is required and where. This algorithm not only gets the plate to the desired temperature quickly it is used to keep the temperature variation across the plate to a minimum so that all the test samples effectively see the same experimental conditions important when you are trying to compare results across test plates and from plate to plate. The novelty here is in the actual nature of the algorithm as well as its use.

In some embodiments a system is provided for controlling heating and cooling of a plate and consumable in thermal communication with the plate. In another embodiment a system having software is provided for controlling heating and cooling of a plate and consumable in thermal communication with the plate. In another embodiment a system is provided for maintaining thermal uniformity across an active region of the plate whilst following a programmed temperature profile.

In some embodiments when a user has filled the tubes on the plate with reagents the tops of the tubes are sealed using a cover such as a transparent sealing film. This may allow the measurement of fluorescence to be made from above the plate to follow the progress of PCR. A charge coupled device CCD camera may be used to record fluorescent output. The CCD camera may have a filter wheel. Radiation for excitation may be provided by one or more excitation sources such as light emitting diodes LED s with filters.

As an alternative a microplate may be heated or cooled with the aid of a heating device employing Peltier heating. In some cases the microplate of may be used with the aid of a Peltier heating element in the vicinity of an underside of the microplate. In such a case the metal plate may permit heat transfer to each of the wells or chambers of the microplate. In some cases a microplate may be in thermal communication with a Peltier heating element which may transfer heat from one side of the heating element to the other side of the heating element against a temperature gradient upon the consumption of electrical energy.

As another alternative the microplate of may be contacted on an underside of the microplate e.g. adjacent to the metal plate of the microplate with a resistive radiative or convective heating device for providing heating or cooling to one or more wells of the microplate. In some cases the microplate of may be contacted on the underside with a clamp heating device. The clamp heating device may be used in conjunction with heating supplied with the aid of current directed through the microplate as described above.

In some cases heating devices provided herein may be used for both heating and cooling. For instance the Peltier heating devices of may be used for removing heat from one or more wells of a microplate by for example adjusting the direction of the flow of current through the semiconductor containing elements of the Peltier heating devices. As another example cooling may be provided by decreasing a heating rate of a heating device thereby enabling cooling to a pseudo steady state temperature with the aid of convective conductive or radiative heat transfer.

Another aspect of the present disclosure provides methods for forming microplates. Microplates provided herein can include substrates having one or more metals. In some embodiments such substrates can include aluminum aluminum oxide an aluminum containing alloy or composite material. In some cases such substrates include aluminum. Current may be provided to substrates through electrodes in electrical contact with the substrates. In some cases low or substantially low resistance electrical contacts may be provided to aluminum substrates for providing current to and through the aluminum substrates.

In some cases aluminum substrates may be in electrical communication with electrical contacts or electrodes at a junction resistance less than or equal to about 5 m ohms or 10 m ohms or 15 m ohms or 20 m ohms or 25 m ohms or 30 m ohms or 35 m ohms or 40 m ohms wherein 1 m ohm is equal to 1 10ohms. Such electrical contacts may have a low concentration of an aluminum containing oxide such as aluminum oxide AlO wherein x is a number greater than zero.

In some cases upon manufacturing a microplate having an aluminum substrate corrugations may be pressed of formed in areas of the aluminum substrate for providing electrical contacts to the substrates. For instance if six electrical contact areas are desired each of the six electrical contact areas may corrugated prior to forming the electrical contact areas. Such corrugation may break any aluminum oxide that may be formed on a surface of the aluminum substrate thereby providing for low or substantially low resistance electrical contacts to the aluminum substrate.

In some embodiments one or more components of microplates are formed with the aid of a die or a plurality of dies. In some cases microplates are formed by mechanical cold forming processing such as forging e.g. swaging . For instance the metal plate of the microplate of can be formed using mechanical cold forming processing. In cases in which the wells of a microplate are formed of a polymeric material the wells can be formed using extrusion or injection molding.

Another aspect of the present disclosure provides a system for sample processing including heating for PCR. The system can include a controller with a central processing memory random access memory and or read only memory a data storage unit e.g. hard drive a communications port COM PORTS and an input output I O module such as an I O interface. The processor may be a central processing unit CPU or a plurality of CPU s for parallel processing. The memory and or data storage unit can have machine readable code for implementing the methods provided herein such as heating methods for PCR.

The system is operatively coupled to a PCR system for performing PCR using microplates provided herein. The PCR system can include sensors e.g. thermocouples for enabling the system to make temperature measurements during PCR with the aid of the PCR system .

The memory can be random access memory RAM or read only memory ROM to name a few examples or a hard drive. The memory can include machine readable code for implementing a method for performing PCR using the PCR system . In some embodiments the memory includes machine readable code for executing one or more temperature profiles which can include temperature zone profiles as a function of time.

In an example a user inputs a PCR microplate having a sample into the PCR system . The PCR microplate can be as described herein. With the aid of the user interface of the display the user requests that the system initiate sample processing and perform PCR on the sample. The system executes code stored on the memory to provide a programmed temperature profile e.g. ramp rate to the sample to conduct PCR.

The system can be in wired or wireless communication with a remote system for housing data or providing instructions for PCR see below . Communication to and from the system can be facilitated by a network interface that brings the system and in communication with the remote system through an intranet or the Internet e.g. the World Wide Web .

Aspects of the systems and methods provided herein may be embodied in programming. Various aspects of the technology may be thought of as products or articles of manufacture typically in the form of executable code and or associated data that is carried on or embodied in a type of machine readable medium. Storage type media may include any or all of the tangible memory of the computers processors or the like or associated modules thereof such as various semiconductor memories tape drives disk drives and the like which may provide non transitory storage at any time for the software programming. All or portions of the software may at times be communicated through the Internet or various other telecommunication networks. Such communications for example may enable loading of the software from one computer or processor into another for example from a management server or host computer into the computer platform of an application server or an intensity transform system. Thus another type of media that may bear the software elements includes optical electrical and electromagnetic waves such as used across physical interfaces between local devices through wired and optical landline networks and over various air links. The physical elements that carry such waves such as wired or wireless links optical links or the like also may be considered as media bearing the software. As used herein unless restricted to non transitory tangible storage media terms such as computer or machine readable medium refer to any medium that participates in providing instructions to a processor for execution.

Hence a machine readable medium such as computer executable code may take many forms including but not limited to a tangible storage medium a carrier wave medium or physical transmission medium. Non volatile storage media include for example optical or magnetic disks such as any of the storage devices in any computer s or the like such as may be used to implement the databases etc. shown in the drawings. Volatile storage media include dynamic memory such as main memory of such a computer platform. Tangible transmission media include coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including the wires that comprise a bus within a computer system. Carrier wave transmission media may take the form of electric or electromagnetic signals or acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio frequency RF and infrared IR data communications. Common forms of computer readable media therefore include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM DVD or DVD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical storage medium with patterns of holes a RAM a ROM a PROM and EPROM a FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave transporting data or instructions cables or links transporting such a carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer may read programming code and or data. Many of these forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying one or more sequences of one or more instructions to a processor for execution.

Another aspect of the present disclosure provides a method for conducting PCR in which one or more of data from the reaction e.g. fluorescence information measured temperature instructions for conducting PCR e.g. ramp rate predetermined temperature profile and instructions for processing the data are located on a microplate remotely or on a removable device. This can enable for plug and play PCR in which PCR can be performed across various platforms without the need for additional setup.

In some cases a removable device can be configured to interface with systems for conducting PCR such as the system of . In an example the removable device is a universal serial bus USB drive e.g. USB stick or a removable memory disk e.g. flash drive . In another example the removable disk is a compact flash disk or device configured to communicate with a serial advanced technology attachment interface e.g. mini SATA or M SATA or a personal computer memory card international association PCMCIA also PC card interface.

In some situations both control and analysis instructions are provided on the removable device to allow a user to develop an experiment and analyze the results independently from a thermal cycler used for conducting the PCR reaction. Machine readable instructions for implementing PCR can be located on the removable device. In some embodiments the removable disk includes instructions and or commands e.g. as embodied in machine readable code that enable an identification of the type of hardware or system such as the system interfacing with the removable device. The removable device can include processing instructions for performing PCR on the hardware. The processing instructions can be predetermined based on the type of system coupled to the removable device and or the type of sample. The removable device can help identify the type of hardware it is plugged into and provide predetermined commands interfaces to conduct PCR on that hardware directly without having to be installed on the hardware.

Some embodiments provide a removable device and software located on a removable device that is configured to operate on various platforms. Test system software houses both control and analysis programs so that the user can develop the user s experiment and understand the results. Whilst operating on the machine itself it is also desirable that it will operate remotely to enable experimental design and results analysis to occur away from the test system. This software can reside on a removable device such as a USB stick other removable memory disks such as for example a compact flash M SATA or PCMCIA device.

Such systems and devices provide various advantages. For example having commands and or instructions on a removable device can preclude the need for any additional installation. PCR can be conducted in such cases without the need for administrator privileges and it be can performed on a machine without having to be installed on that machine. This provides a uniform platform for sample processing as no hardware and or software upgrades or installation may be required to setup a system e.g. system for PCR on a particular sample. The removable media can store both the data files and the program so as to enable compatibility.

PCR systems provided herein are configured for installation and operation on various software platforms such as Windows based e.g. Windows 7 and Linux based e.g. Mac OS X operating systems. Systems provided herein can be implemented on portable electronic devices such as laptop computers Smartphone e.g. Apple iPhone and tablets e.g. Apple iPad . In some cases such systems can communicate with peripheral devices for PCR such as a heating system e.g. current application device in communication with a microplate to define a circuit . This can provide for an interface for ready recognition across various platforms.

PCR systems provided herein can be platform independent. In some situations as long as the system can accept the removable memory device then it would be able to run the software and conduct PCR. In some cases all the information is stored on the removable device such that nothing is held on the platform that is running the software which may reduce if not eliminate data security issues. The data and the application are transferred from the removable device and the system provides the computing power and associated ancillary functions such as a user interface and printing.

Alternatively PCR commands and or instructions are stored a remote server i.e. the cloud and accessed by the system e.g. the system through a network interface such as a wired or wireless interface. A user can run PCR by providing a microplate as described herein having a sample and using the system to retrieve the requisite instructions for conducting PCR. Data gathered through the course of PCR can be stored on the system and subsequently uploaded to the remote server having a data storage unit.

Alternatively PCR commands and or instructions are stored on a memory device that is integrated in a microplate. The microplate is configured to interface with a system for conducting PCR such as the system of . The system can include a reader for recognizing the memory device and subsequently preparing the system for sample processing. In some embodiments the memory device is an electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM .

In some embodiments a microplate or sample holder includes an identification member for enabling a system e.g. the system of to identify the microplate. The identification member can be a solid state device such as a processor e.g. microprocessor or memory or a radio frequency identification RFID tag or device. The identification member can be for identification and in some cases data storage. This can advantageously aid in reducing handling errors. In an example a microplate includes an RFID device that stores both instructions e.g. PCR instructions data processing instructions and identifying information. The identifying information can be a serial number. The identifying information can enable a system to identify the microplate. In some situations the RFID device only includes identifying information and a system such as the system of is configured to detect the RFID and retrieve the identifying information and to retrieve instructions for conducting PCR with the aid of the microplate. In some cases the instructions retrieved by the system are specific to the microplate operatively coupled to the system.

Another aspect of the present disclosure provides a user interface for enabling a user to setup a system for PCR monitor PCR and view PCR results. The user interface in some cases is a graphical user interface GUI having one or more textual graphical audio and video elements such as menu elements for enabling a user to setup a PCR task monitor the course of PCR review results and conduct data analysis. The GUI can facilitate the implementation of PCR experiments. illustrate screenshots of a GUI that allows ready analysis and visualization of PCR results as described herein. The GUI of can be implemented on systems provided herein such as the system of and presented to a user with the aid of a display such as the display of .

In the user has selected START A TEST and the system presents the user with sub menu options including TEMPLATES and HISTORY The user can select TEMPLATES to access various test templates for performing PCR. Alternatively the user can select HISTORY to review for example PCR history such as what tests were conducted at a particular point in time. Such data can be stored in a data repository of the system. The user can select STANDARD TEST to proceed with setting up the system to conduct PCR.

With reference to under STANDARD PEST the system presents the user with various PCR options such requesting that the user select the type of PCR SELECT PCR TYPE . The system presents the user with various PCR type options including RICTOR PKC Rac Rho Akt and RHEB. The user can select a PCR type option. Next with reference to the system presents the user with various chemistry types CHEMISTRY TYPE such as ABI Fast Advanced Master Mix and Gene Expression Master Mix. Next with reference to the system presents the user with tray settings TRAY SETTINGS and enables the user to select genes of interest GENES OF INTEREST such as mTOR or RAPTOR. Next with reference to the system presents the user with thermal profile options including start temperatures and target temperatures. The user can select from predetermined options or manually input temperature settings. The system then presents the user with a confirmation screen as shown in . The confirmation screen shows a temperature profile per cycle that the system will use in the PCR the number of cycles REPEAT tray settings 24 WELLS has been selected in among other settings. The temperature profile is a custom temperature profile though predetermined settings may be used if desired. The system provides the user the option to change the settings or to proceed with conducting PCR RUN TEST .

Nominally 0.4 mm thick metal plates were produced from bulk processed material on a large scale where a metal ingot e.g. 5 ton metal ingot enters the process and is rolled and coated in a continuous operation. The material was an aluminum alloy rolled to a half hard condition and then coated on one side e.g. a top side to a nominal thickness of about 10 microns with a polypropylene compatible material. This material allows polypropylene to be heat sealed or welded to the metal plate and does not inhibit the PCR. The other side bottom of the sheet was coated with an epoxy primer to a nominal thickness of 5 microns. This is present to normalize the infrared emissivity of the bottom side of the sheet. The material was slit into 160 mm wide strips and supplied in coiled form to an automatic stamping line where the individual plates are produced. The epoxy coating was then selectively removed from the contact fingers at the ends of the plates to allow electrical contact to be made.

To contain the liquid samples placed on the plate a polypropylene moulding consisting of an array of vertical tube structures was welded to the metal plate of Example 1. The polypropylene moulding was formed of a plurality of tubes to define sample areas or wells . The size and pattern of the tubes may be a matter of user choice any pattern that fits within the actively temperature controlled area in the middle of the plate may be used. Two familiar looking options were selected a 6 4 tube array on a 9 mm pitch and an 8 12 array on a 4.5 mm pitch. The whole assembly weighed 10.5 g and was readily recyclable. Appropriately for a single use item the manufacturing cost of the consumable was low.

While certain microplates have been described as being consumable ore recyclable it will be appreciated that in some cases such microplates need not be consumable or recyclable. In some embodiments such microplates may be reusable non consumable or non recyclable.

Microplates of the present disclosure may be suited for use in nucleic acid amplification including without limitation polymerase chain reaction PCR and transcription mediated amplification. Thus while certain microplates have been described in the context of PCR it will be understood that microplates of the present disclosure may be used to implement other types of nucleic acid amplification.

Systems and methods provided herein may be combined with or modified by other systems and methods. For example systems and methods provided herein may be combined with or modified by systems and methods described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 635 492 to Gunter Heating specimen carriers and U.S. Pat. No. 6 949 725 to Gunter Zone heating of specimen carriers and PCT Publication Nos. WO 2001 072424 to Gunter Heating specimen carriers WO 1997 026993 to Gunter Heating WO 2005 058501 to Gunter Heating samples in specimen carriers WO 2003 022439 to Gunter Zone heating of specimen carriers WO 2012 080746 to Gunter et al. METHODS AND SYSTEMS FOR FAST PCR HEATING and U.S. Patent Publication No. 2012 0214207 to Gunter et al. METHODS AND SYSTEMS FOR FAST PCR HEATING which patents and patent publications are entirely incorporated herein by reference.

It should be understood from the foregoing that while particular implementations have been illustrated and described various modifications may be made thereto and are contemplated herein. It is also not intended that the invention be limited by the specific examples provided within the specification. While the invention has been described with reference to the aforementioned specification the descriptions and illustrations of the preferable embodiments herein are not meant to be construed in a limiting sense. Furthermore it shall be understood that all aspects of the invention are not limited to the specific depictions configurations or relative proportions set forth herein which depend upon a variety of conditions and variables. Various modifications in form and detail of the embodiments of the invention will be apparent to a person skilled in the art. It is therefore contemplated that the invention shall also cover any such modifications variations and equivalents.

