---

title: Stovetop fire extinguisher initiator with fuse device and method
abstract: An initiator with fuse device for an automatic self-contained fire suppressor and method are provided herein. Stovetop fires are a well-known residential and commercial hazard. The initiator with fuse device for an automatic stovetop fire suppressor has a rapid light time in the presence of flames. The time to light is consistent and reliable for the fuse described herein. Comparative tests show a shorter light time for the present fuse as compared to conventional fuses. Further, the variability in lighting times is shortened when the herein described configuration is employed. Deployment of an automatic stovetop fire suppressor can be safer than manual extinguishing means and via the initiator with fuse described herein, the time to deployment is greatly improved. Manufacturing of the initiator with fuse is readily adapted to existing processes.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09421405&OS=09421405&RS=09421405
owner: WilliamsRDM, Inc.
number: 09421405
owner_city: Fort Worth
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130529
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 803 045 filed 18 Mar. 2013 the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates to a device and method of fire suppression and more particularly to initiating an automatic stovetop fire suppressor.

Stovetop fires are a well known residential and commercial hazard. An unattended stovetop fire for example a grease fire can cause damage to nearby appliances and cabinets. Worse stovetop fires can lead to structural damage or injury. Because the propensity for stovetop fires is so pervasive an efficient means of automatic fire suppression is desired. Even if a stovetop fire is attended an automatic extinguishing method may be more effective safe and expedient compared to manual means.

A number of conventional automatic stovetop fire extinguishers which mount above the stovetop surface are available. These include U.S. Pat. No. 6 276 461 to Stager U.S. Pat. No. 6 105 677 to Stager U.S. Pat. No. 5 899 278 to Mikulec U.S. Pat. No. 7 472 758 to Stevens and Weintraub U.S. Pat. No. 7 610 966 to Weintraub et al U.S. Pat. No. 5 518 075 to Williams and U.S. Pat. No. 3 884 307 to Williams. The array of conventional fire suppression systems vary from activation by melting of a fusible pin Stager 461 to melting a solder fusible plug Stager 677 to burning of a fuse Williams 307 Stevens 758 or to activating via a glass bulb fuse mechanism Mikulec . The mounting mechanism for these systems similarly vary from interconnected tubing Mikulec to pendulum anchors Stager 461 to bolts Stager 677 or to magnetic systems requiring assembly Williams 307 and Williams 075 .

Conventional fire suppresors STOVETOP FIRESTOP fire suppressor Williams Pyro Inc. Fort Worth Tex. USA which are particularly well suited to a stovetop environment include a container of an extinguishing agent mounted to a vent hood above the stovetop and activated by a fuse. An example of such an suppressor is shown in . The bottom of the container contains a fuse. A fire on the stovetop ignites the fuse which in turn detonates an igniter. The igniter opens the bottom of the container thereby allowing the disbursement of the extinguishing agent onto the fire and the stovetop. In the example shown in the container is secured via a magnet to a hood over the stove.

A conventional initiator comprising a fuse is shown in greater detail in . The conventional initiator is further described below with reference to . The conventional fuse assembly is effective at heat activating the initiator cup however a shortened activation time with excellent reproducibility of the same for a stovetop fire suppressor would be desirable for reasons to include safety and damage to surrounding structures and figures.

The present invention addresses some of the issues presented above by providing a new fuse for heat activation of the initiator in an automatic stovetop fire extinguisher Embodiments of the present invention may have any of the aspects below.

One aspect of the present invention is to provide an efficient heat activation apparatus for a stovetop fire suppressor.

Another aspect of the present invention is to provide an improved consistency in heat activation time for an automated stovetop fire suppressor.

Another aspect of the present invention is to provide a minimal time of heat activation time for an automated stovetop fire.

Another aspect of the present invention is to provide a fast lighting fuse in the presence of flames in a stovetop fire suppressor.

Another aspect of the present invention is to provide a minimal time of heat activation time for an automated stovetop fire suppressor with minimal additional manufacturing steps.

Yet another aspect of the present invention is to provide very low variability in heat activation time for an automated stovetop fire suppressor while shortening the time to fuse ignition for a given flame exposure.

Still another aspect of the present invention is to provide a method of making a fuse that yields a consistent fuse lighting time.

Those skilled in the art will further appreciate the above noted features and advantages of the invention together with other important aspects thereof upon reading the detailed description that follows in conjunction with the drawings.

The invention as defined by the claims may be better understood by reference to the following detailed description. The description is meant to be read with reference to the figures contained herein. This detailed description relates to examples of the claimed subject matter for illustrative purposes and is in no way meant to limit the scope of the invention. The specific aspects and embodiments discussed herein are illustrative of ways to make and use the invention and are not intended to limit the scope of the invention. Same reference numbers across figures refer to like elements for ease of reference. Reference numbers may also be unique to a respective figure or embodiment.

A fuse assembly may be created by placing a second eyelet on a pre cut length of fuse . The fuse is cut perpendicular to the axial orientation of the fuse and the resulting straight edge fuse is shown in . The eyelet is then positioned in place and crimped to attach it to the fuse . The fuse assembly is then inserted through the hole in the first eyelet from the inside of the initiator cup . A gun powder substitute is then dispensed into the cup lid fuse assembly. And finally a cap is placed on the open end of the cup and the two parts are ultrasonically welded together to form an initiator for a stovetop fire suppressor .

We investigated both the lighting times for a conventional fuse type and configuration and the consistency of lighting times for the same conventional fuse types. First the responsiveness of the conventional fuse configuration with a conventional lacquer was determined experimentally. The test setup included a Bunsen burner and a fuse retaining fixture which left an exposed fuse portion similar to that shown in . Each fuse sample was loaded into the fixture and positioned 4.75 directly above the Bunsen burner flame. The gas supply to the Bunsen burner was held constant. The time to light the fuse was recorded for 10 samples and the condition of lit was determined by visual inspection. shows a graphical representation of data acquired by the above described experimental setup and procedures. Samples of the conventional configuration and conventional lacquer clear 25 nitrocellulose are represented by A see legend shown in . Conventional fuse types are an American visco fuse with an approximate diameter of 3 32 inches and which are red in color and are lacquer coated off the shelf. Fireworks International Virginia Beach Va. USA . After cutting the fuse to the desired length conventionally and in accordance with embodiments of the present invention a coat of lacquer is applied to the external cut end of the fuse to seal it. The conventional lacquer end coat is a clear twenty five percent nitrocellulose lacquer for example an OPEX nitro cellulose alkyd production lacquer Sherwin Williams Cleveland Ohio USA .

Samples from one to ten were taken for the A B C lacquered and non lacquered D straight cut conventional fuse configurations where B samples were coated with a green 25 nitrocellulose lacquer A samples were coated with a 25 concentrated mix of nitrocellulose N butyl acetate lacquer on the cut end and C samples were coated with a 10 nitrocellulose lacquer Skylighter Inc. Round Hill Virginia USA on the cut end and D samples were bare lacking any lacquer coating coated onto the cut end. In experimental setup and in practice the lacquer may be applied to the exposed and mounted fuse with a commercially available liquid dispenser excess lacquer can run down to the first eyelet and fuse interface. In accordance with the present invention alternate coating methods may be employed such as painting by hand or by spraying. The application method employed was consistent across all test samples.

The time to fuse lightings are provided in seconds along the Y axis in seconds . The sample numbers through are provided on the X axis for the A B C and D fuse types respectively for a total of 40 fuses tested. The activation times for each sample were plotted in seconds. Each different fuse type and respective sample was identically mounted and positioned above the Bunsen burner. Conventional fuse types are a visco fuse which is lacquer coated off the shelf. After cutting the fuse to the desired length a coat of lacquer is applied to the external cut end of the fuse to seal it.

The straight cut fuse sample lighting times varied between two seconds and more than eighty seconds . The variation in lighting times for a given lacquer A B or C varied by at least twenty fold. Even the non lacquered end cut fuse D samples varied more than twenty fold for lighting times across ten samples and reached a lighting time in excess of forty seconds.

A conventional visco fuse typically consists of a burning core coated with wax or lacquer for durability and water resistance. A visco fuse typically has a core of black powder with one or more outer wraps of textile about the vertical axis. Further the outer layers may be coated with wax or nitrocellulose lacquer for water and dirt resistance and the outer coating may also provide mechanical protection. These fuses burn at a uniform rate with an easily visible external flame. Depending on the outer coating visco fuses may be water resistant.

The angle cut fuse sample lighting times showed much lower variability and lower average and maximum lighting times. Angle cut fuses varied between less than two seconds to less than 28 seconds. The average lighting times for a given lacquer A B and C was greatly reduced as compared to the straight edge cut fuses shown in . Referring again to average lighting times for the angle cut fuses could be reduced to less than five seconds across 10 samples. In alternate embodiments different lacquers can be used in accordance with the present invention all three lacquers tested showed decreased lighting times and decreased variability with the angle cut end as compared to a straight cut end.

A coating of lacquer is then placed on the outside interface of the first eyelet and fuse. This seals the fuse to the eyelet to prevent the gun powder substitute from flowing out at that interface. A coating of lacquer is also placed on the end of the fuse to seal if from the environment . The lacquer to the end cut of the fuse may have already been applied during fuse formation and in turn this last coating of lacquer would not be needed in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present invention. Referring to place an initiator cup over a lower die in a press staking machine place a fire suppressor container lid on a top side of the cup place a first eyelet in the upper die and activate press driving first eyelet down through the lid and cup and forming on the inside of the cup firmly attaching the pieces together . Provide inlet of the fuse into the initiator capsule through a center hole in the first eyelet . Place a second eyelet on a pre cut length of fuse . Crimp second eyelet attaching it to the fuse and insert fuse with the crimped second eyelet through an inside of the cup through the inlet and resting the second eyelet atop the first eyelet . At this point the angle cut end of the fuse extends below an outside of the suppressor container lid as shown for example in . Referring again to dispense gun powder substitute into the cup place a cap on the top open end of the cup and ultrasonically weld the cap to the cup . Apply a coating of lacquer to the outside interface of the first eyelet and the fuse forming an initiator for an automatic stovetop fire suppressor with fuse. In accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present invention the lacquer is a nitro cellulose lacquer. In accordance with another exemplary method embodiment of the present invention a coating of nitrocellulose lacquer is applied to the angle end cut of the fuse 

Still referring to the non erupting portions of the lid is referred to as the web W of the lid . Embossed reinforcing ribs WR are formed in the lid to make the web W stiffer and to assist in minimizing any problem of the segments or vanes not opening outward. The embossing forms a center circle with radially extending ribs between break open segments . The ribs WR may be formed by bending the web W outward after the score lines A are formed which tends to pull metal away from the score lines A A and may facilitate opening of the segments .

The time between a fire starting on a stove and the fuse on a flame activated automatic stovetop fire extinguishing unit lighting actuation time is desired to be as small as possible. The present invention improves fire suppressor actuation time and repeatability of actuation time. Exemplary embodiments include an angle cut fuse end.

While specific alternatives to steps of the invention have been described herein additional alternatives not specifically disclosed but known in the art are intended to fall within the scope of the invention. Thus it is understood that other applications of the present invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art upon reading the described embodiments and after consideration of the appended drawings.

