---

title: Methods of determining performance information for individuals and sports objects
abstract: Methods for determining performance information for an object located within an area include obtaining magnetic field information for the area, measuring first magnetic field data when the object is located at a first position within the area, and determining performance information for the object within the area based on the magnetic field information for the area and the first magnetic field data.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09500464&OS=09500464&RS=09500464
owner: adidas AG
number: 09500464
owner_city: Herzogenaurach
owner_country: DE
publication_date: 20130312
---
Embodiments of the present invention generally relate to methods of determining performance information for an object based on magnetic field information. More particularly embodiments of the present invention relate to methods of determining performance information for an object such as the position or speed of the object by mapping magnetic field information of an area and comparing magnetic field measurements taken as the object moves about the area to the mapped magnetic field information.

Technologies such as satellite navigation systems are useful for navigation and tracking movement of an object in an outdoor environment. However these systems do not function well in areas without a clear pathway between the satellite and receiver such as indoor urban subterranean and underwater environments where satellite navigation system signals are often unavailable. Thus it would be advantageous to have a positioning system that works in both outdoor and indoor environments that can be used in place of or in combination with a satellite navigation system.

Embodiments of the present invention determine performance information for an object based on local magnetic field data. The earth s magnetic field across a wide area is generally the same with little variation. Thus in most instances a standard compass will generally point to the earth s magnetic pole. However on a local level the earth s magnetic field although generally stable may be non uniform. Both the intensity and direction of the earth s magnetic field can vary locally. Of particular relevance within a man made structure such as a building variations in the magnetic field can be influenced for instance by the building materials. For example the magnetic field measured near a large steel support beam may be different than the magnetic field measured in the center of a large room. Accordingly the intensity and direction of the magnetic field can vary when measured at various locations throughout a building.

By measuring and recording local magnetic field data a magnetic field map of an area can be created that includes magnetic field information for the entire area. Measurements taken at a point later in time can be compared with the magnetic field map information to determine a location of an object within the mapped area. This can be useful for numerous activities for example navigating through a building or tracking the movement of an object within an enclosed structure. More specifically certain athletic activities are commonly performed inside gyms training facilities arenas or stadiums that are partially or completely enclosed. For example sports such as basketball football and soccer are often played indoors. It is becoming increasingly important to track performance metrics of athletes during both training and competition. Satellite navigation system based technology although potentially useful in outdoor environments to track the position movement and performance of players or sports equipment e.g. a ball often encounters accuracy problems in indoor environments. Thus it would be advantageous to have a positioning system that is capable of tracking the position movement and performance of players or sports equipment in indoor environments based on local magnetic field data.

The methods and systems disclosed herein relate to detecting determining and tracking the position of one or more objects within an area based on local magnetic field data. The methods and systems are generally described herein with respect to indoor environments that are partially or completely enclosed but are equally suitable for other environments for example outdoor urban subterranean and underwater environments. The methods and systems are also generally described herein with respect to athletic activities but can be employed for many other uses such as but not limited to indoor and outdoor navigation and product tracking. Although the methods and systems disclosed herein are generally described using magnetic field data other types of data to determine and track the position of individuals and objects within an area are also contemplated. Examples of other types of data include but are not limited to thermal IR and or visible spectrum data optical data image data and or electromagnetic data.

Embodiments of the present invention relate to a method for determining performance information for an object located within an area the method including obtaining magnetic field information for the area measuring first magnetic field data when the object is located at a first position within the area wherein the first magnetic field data includes magnetic field intensity data and or magnetic field direction data and determining performance information for the object within the area based on the magnetic field information for the area and the first magnetic field data.

Embodiments of the present invention also relate to a method for determining performance information for an object located within an athletic field area the method including obtaining magnetic field map data for the athletic field area measuring magnetic field data when the object is located within the athletic field area filtering the measured magnetic field data and determining performance information for the object within the athletic field area based on the magnetic field map data and the filtered measured magnetic field data.

Embodiments of the present invention further relate to a method for determining a position of an object within an area at a given time the method including obtaining magnetic field information for the area measuring first magnetic field data when the object is located at a first position within the area comparing the first magnetic field data with the magnetic field information for the area determining a set of possible locations of the first position of the object within the area based on the comparison of the first magnetic field data with the magnetic field information for the area measuring second magnetic field data when the object is located at a second position within the area comparing the second magnetic field data with the magnetic field information for the area applying constraints to the second magnetic field data to determine a possible location of the second position of the object based on the constraints and the comparison of the first magnetic field data and the second magnetic field data with the magnetic field information for the area and repeating the steps of measuring magnetic field data and applying constraints to determine the position of the object within the area at a given time.

Embodiments of the present invention also relate to a method for determining performance information for an object located within an area the method including measuring first magnetic field data when the object is located at a first position within the area at a first time determining a location of the first position of the object at the first time based on the first magnetic field data measuring second magnetic field data when the object is located at a second position within the area at a second time determining a location of the second position of the object at the second time based on the second magnetic field data and determining performance information for the object based on the location of the first position of the object at the first time and the location of the second position of the object at the second time.

Embodiments of the present invention further relate to a method for tracking a first object and a second object as they move about an area during a period of time the method including obtaining magnetic field data for the first object as it moves about the area during the period of time obtaining magnetic field data for the second object as it moves about the area during the period of time and tracking positions of the first object and the second object at given times as they move about the area during the period of time based on the obtained magnetic field data for the first object and the obtaining magnetic field data for the second object.

Embodiments of the present invention also relate to a method for mapping a magnetic field of an athletic field area the method including measuring magnetic field data at a plurality of locations within the athletic field area during a mapping session and generating a map of the magnetic field of the athletic field area based on the measured magnetic field data.

Embodiments of the present invention further relate to a method for determining performance information for an object located within an area the method including obtaining magnetic field information for the area performing a statistical analysis of the variability of the magnetic field information for the area measuring a statistical variable of magnetic field data as the object moves within the area and determining performance information for the object based on the measurement of the statistical variable of magnetic field data.

Embodiments of the present invention also relate to a group monitoring device for monitoring a plurality of individuals engaged in an athletic activity the device including a display configured to display during an athletic activity a representation depicting locations on a playing field of a plurality of individuals engaged in the athletic activity and a location of a movable sports object e.g. a ball wherein the representation is based on location information generated by individual monitors coupled to individuals of the plurality of individuals and location information generated by an object monitor coupled to the sports object.

Embodiments of the present invention further relate to a method for monitoring a plurality of individuals engaged in an athletic activity the method including displaying during the athletic activity a representation depicting locations on a playing field of a plurality of individuals engaged in the athletic activity and a location of a movable sports object wherein the representation is based on location information generated by individual monitors coupled to individuals of the plurality of individuals and location information generated by an object monitor coupled to the sports object.

Embodiments of the present invention also relate to a method for defining a playing field the method including displaying using an administrative device an instruction to locate a sensor at a first location receiving first data from the sensor defining the first data as the position of the first location displaying using the administrative device an instruction to locate the sensor at a second location receiving second data from the sensor and defining the second data as the position of the second location wherein the position of the first location and the position of the second location together define the playing field.

Additional embodiments features and advantages of the present invention as well as the structure and operation of the various embodiments of the present invention are described in detail below with reference to the accompanying drawings.

The present invention will now be described in detail with reference to embodiments thereof as illustrated in the accompanying drawings. References to one embodiment an embodiment an example embodiment some embodiments etc. indicate that the embodiment described may include a particular feature structure or characteristic but every embodiment may not necessarily include the particular feature structure or characteristic. Moreover such phrases are not necessarily referring to the same embodiment. Further when a particular feature structure or characteristic is described in connection with an embodiment it is submitted that it is within the knowledge of one skilled in the art to affect such feature structure or characteristic in connection with other embodiments whether or not explicitly described.

The term invention or present invention as used herein is a non limiting term and is not intended to refer to any single embodiment of the particular invention but encompasses all possible embodiments as described in the application.

Various aspects of the present invention or any parts or functions thereof may be implemented using hardware software firmware tangible computer readable or computer usable storage media having instructions stored thereon or a combination thereof and may be implemented in one or more computer systems or other processing systems.

The present invention generally relates to methods of determining performance information for an object based on measuring the local magnetic field. More particularly embodiments of the present invention relate to methods of determining performance information for an object such as the position or speed of the object within an area by mapping magnetic field information of the area and comparing magnetic field data measurements taken as the object moves about the area to the mapped data.

For example if the individual is participating in an activity that involves the use of a sport ball such as playing in a soccer i.e. football match it may be desirable for example to be able to determine the speed at which the soccer ball i.e. football was kicked by the individual to be able to determine the location of the soccer ball on the playing field in relation to a boundary line or goal or to be able to determine the relative amount of time the soccer ball spent in various areas of the playing field during a match.

As a further example it may be desirable to be able to determine the location of an individual playing a sport for example basketball at a specific time or over the course of a game. It may also be desirable to determine the speed at which the individual moves about the court and the path the individual takes as they move about the court during a game.

In an embodiment the positions and movement and of the bodies of a plurality of individuals engaged in an athletic activity e.g. teammates or opponents in a team sport and or the movement of a plurality of pieces of athletic equipment used by the individuals during the athletic activity may be monitored. In some embodiments real time monitoring and or feedback may be provided while in other embodiments post activity feedback may be provided.

By using an athletic activity monitoring system including one or more portable sensors embodiments of the present invention described below may advantageously enable an individual or their coach teammate or a spectator to obtain this or other information about the position of the individual s body or the position of a piece of the individual s athletic equipment during the course of the athletic activity. Data obtained by sensors may be processed in a variety of ways to yield useful information about the position and movement of an object of interest during the activity. In some embodiments sensor data may be processed to determine changes in the spatial orientation i.e. changes in position relative to a specific location on the earth the playing field or other point of reference of the individual s body or a piece of the individual s athletic equipment. In other embodiments sensor data may be processed by reference to stored reference data for a particular area such as the playing field.

In one embodiment information about the position and movement of the individual s body or the position and movement of a piece of the individual s athletic equipment may be used for example to provide coaching to the individual about how their position or movement could be improved or as a check on the accuracy of a referee umpire or other athletic competition judge s judgment related to the position or movement of the individual s body or athletic equipment.

Suitable monitoring systems and components may include for example the systems and components disclosed in commonly owned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 446 937 titled ATHLETIC ACTIVITY MONITORING METHODS AND SYSTEMS U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 446 982 titled SPORT BALL ATHLETIC ACTIVITY MONITORING METHODS AND SYSTEMS and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 446 986 titled WEARABLE ATHLETIC ACTIVITY MONITORING METHODS AND SYSTEMS whose disclosures are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.

Athletic activity monitoring systems according to embodiments of the present invention may be suitable for use by individuals for team or individual athletic activities and for competitive and informal training sessions. For example athletic activity monitoring systems according to embodiments of the present invention may be suitable for use by individuals engaged in athletic activities such as baseball basketball bowling boxing cricket cycling football i.e. American football golf hockey lacrosse rowing rugby running skateboarding skiing soccer i.e. football surfing swimming table tennis tennis or volleyball or during training sessions related thereto.

Athletic activity monitoring systems according to embodiments of the present invention may include a sensor module . The sensor module may include one or more sensors and may be physically coupled to an object during an athletic activity conducted by an individual . As explained in further detail below the sensor module may be used to monitor changes in the spatial orientation of the individual s body or a piece of the individual s athletic equipment in some embodiments while the sensor module may be used in combination with predetermined correlation data stored in a data structure to determine a correlation between body or equipment movement data and an activity metric in other embodiments.

In one embodiment as illustrated in the monitored object may be the individual s body and the sensor module may be physically coupled to the individual s body . In the illustrated embodiment the sensor module is configured to be physically coupled to the portion of the individual s body known as the chest. In other embodiments the sensor module may be configured to be physically coupled to other portions of the individual s body such as for example the individual s head neck shoulder back arm wrist hand finger waist hip leg ankle foot or toe.

In some embodiments the sensor module may be configured to be physically coupled to the portion of the individual s body with one or more layers of clothing an article of footwear or athletic protective equipment existing between the sensor module and the individual s body . Regardless of whether intervening articles are present the sensor module may be physically coupled to the portion of the individual s body by a variety of releasable or non releasable coupling means such as for example straps adhesives pockets clips or by being integrated into an article of clothing e.g. shirt pants sock glove or hat footwear or athletic protective equipment worn by the individual .

In one embodiment the sensor module may be configured to be placed in a sensor module retention element of a garment that is configured to retain the sensor module . In some exemplary embodiments the retention element may be sized and shaped to correspond to the size and shape of the sensor module to be capable of nesting sensor module therein and holding the sensor module in place so as to minimize the effect of movement of a wearer of the garment on the sensor module . Additional elements may be used to help minimize this effect such as for example bands and spacer elements. The sensor module retention element may be coupled to textile a layer of a garment by for example being integral therewith being adhered stitched welded tied clipped snapped or mounted thereto or any combination of these and other techniques. In some exemplary embodiments sensor module retention element is formed integrally with a textile layer of the garment.

In some embodiments the sensor module retention element may be positioned to correspond to the upper back of a wearer of the sensor module . The sensor module retention element to correspond to a high position on the wearer such as the upper back may help minimize interference and maximize range and signal strength of the sensor module within the sensor module retention element when the sensor module sends or receives data. Additionally positioning the sensor module retention element to correspond to the upper back minimizes interference with athlete movements by the sensor module . In some exemplary embodiments sensor module retention element is positioned to correspond to other than the upper back of a wearer.

In another embodiment as illustrated in the object may be a piece of athletic equipment used by the individual during the athletic activity and the sensor module may be physically coupled to the piece of athletic equipment . In the illustrated embodiment the sensor module is physically coupled to a piece of athletic equipment that is a soccer ball. In other embodiments the sensor module may be configured to be physically coupled to other pieces of athletic equipment such as for example any type of sport ball any type of sport stick e.g. a baseball bat hockey stick golf club table tennis paddle or tennis racquet a sport glove a bicycle an oar a shoe a boot a ski a hat or cap a skateboard a surfboard or a pair of glasses or goggles.

The sensor module may be physically coupled to the piece of athletic equipment by a variety of coupling means depending on the nature of the piece of athletic equipment and the athletic activity. For example the sensor module may be physically coupled to a sport ball by being attached to the exterior of the ball by being attached to an interior surface of a hollow ball by being suspended by a suspension system in the interior of a hollow ball or by being integrated into the outer layer or other layer of a multi layer ball. Also the sensor module may be physically coupled to a non hollow sport ball e.g. a baseball bowling ball or golf ball by for example being attached to the exterior of the ball being integrated between layers of a multi layer ball by being embedded in a solid portion of the ball. As further examples the sensor module may be releasably or non releasably physically coupled to a sport stick by being wrapped around a portion of the sport stick by being clipped to a portion of the sport stick by being attached to an exterior surface of the sport stick by being attached to an interior surface of a hollow or non hollow sport stick by being suspended by a suspension system in the interior of a hollow sport stick or by being integrated into the wall or other layer of a multi layer or composite sport stick. The sensor module may be physically coupled to the piece of athletic equipment by a variety of coupling means such as for example straps adhesives or by being integrated into the piece of athletic equipment .

In other embodiments the sensor module may be integrated within an existing piece of athletic activity monitoring equipment such as for example a heart rate monitoring device a pedometer and accelerometer based monitoring device or other portable fitness monitoring device such as for example devices sold by adidas AG of Herzogenaurach Germany under the MICOACH PACER ZONE or SPEED CELL brand names.

The processor may be adapted to implement application programs stored in the memory of the sensor module . The processor may also be capable of implementing analog or digital signal processing algorithms such as raw data reduction and filtering. For example processor may be configured to receive raw data from sensors and process such data at the sensor module . The processor is operatively connected to the power source the memory the acceleration sensor the magnetic field sensor and the transceiver .

The power source may be adapted to provide power to the sensor module . In one embodiment the power source may be a battery. The power source may be built into the sensor module or removable from the sensor module and may be rechargeable or non rechargeable. In an embodiment the power source may be recharged by being plugged into a cable attached to a charging source such as a universal serial bus USB cable attached to a personal computer. In another embodiment the power source may be recharged by inductive charging wherein an electromagnetic field is used to transfer energy from an inductive charger to the power source when the two are brought in close proximity but need not be plugged into one another via a cable. In some embodiment a docking station may be used to facilitate charging.

The memory may be adapted to store application program instructions and to store athletic activity data. In an embodiment the memory may store application programs used to implement aspects of the functionality of the athletic activity monitoring system described herein. In one embodiment the memory may store raw data recorded data and or calculated data. In some embodiments as explained in further detail below the memory may act as a data storage buffer. The memory may include both read only memory and random access memory and may further include memory cards or other removable storage devices.

In some embodiments of the present invention the memory may store raw data recorded data and or calculated data permanently while in other embodiments the memory may only store all or some data temporarily such as in a buffer. In one embodiment of the present invention the memory and or a buffer related thereto may store data in memory locations of predetermined size such that only a certain quantity of data may be saved for a particular application of the present invention.

The acceleration sensor may be adapted to measure the acceleration of the sensor module . Accordingly when the sensor module is physically coupled to an object such as an individual s body or a piece of athletic equipment the acceleration sensor may be capable of measuring the acceleration of the object including the acceleration due to the earth s gravitational field. In one embodiment the acceleration sensor may include a tri axial accelerometer that is capable of measuring acceleration in three orthogonal directions. In other embodiments one two three or more separate accelerometers may be used.

The magnetic field sensor may be adapted to measure the intensity and or direction of magnetic fields in the vicinity of the sensor module . Accordingly when the sensor module is physically coupled to an object such as an individual s body or a piece of athletic equipment the magnetic field sensor may be capable of measuring the intensity and or direction of magnetic fields in the vicinity of the object including the earth s magnetic field. In one embodiment the magnetic field sensor may be a vector magnetometer. In other embodiments the magnetic field sensor may be a tri axial magnetometer that is capable of measuring the magnitude and direction of a resultant magnetic vector for the total local magnetic field in three dimensions. In other embodiments one two three or more separate magnetometers may be used.

In one embodiment of the present invention the acceleration sensor and the magnetic field sensor may be contained within a single accelerometer magnetometer module bearing model number LSM303DLHC made by STMicroelectronics of Geneva Switzerland. In other embodiments the sensor module may include only one of the acceleration sensor and the magnetic field sensor and may omit the other if desired. For example in some embodiments that rely primarily or exclusively on magnetic field data to determine performance information for an object such as the position or speed of the object the sensor module may include a magnetic field sensor but omit an acceleration sensor .

The transceiver depicted in may enable the sensor module to wirelessly communicate with other components of the athletic activity monitoring system such as those described in further detail below. In one embodiment the sensor module and the other local components of the athletic activity monitoring system may communicate over a personal area network or local area network using for example one or more of the following protocols ANT ANT by Dynastream Innovations Bluetooth Bluetooth Low Energy Technology BlueRobin or suitable wireless personal or local area network protocols. Other known communication protocols suitable for an athletic activity monitoring system may also be used.

In one embodiment the transceiver is a low power transceiver. In some embodiments the transceiver may be a two way communication transceiver while in other embodiments the transceiver may be a one way transmitter or a one way receiver. Wireless communication between the sensor module and other components of the athletic activity monitoring system is described in further detail below. In other embodiments the sensor module may be in wired communication with other components of the athletic activity monitoring system that does not rely on transceiver .

In some embodiments of the present invention a sensor module having components such as those depicted in may be physically coupled to an object during an athletic activity conducted by an individual to monitor changes in the spatial orientation of the individual s body or a piece of the individual s athletic equipment to determine a correlation between body or equipment movement data and an activity metric or to compare measured data to previously measured and recorded data. In these embodiments the acceleration sensor and the magnetic field sensor may be responsible for collecting the data necessary to carry out the various monitoring calculations.

In some other embodiments however it may be desirable to have additional sensors included within the sensor module or to have additional sensors in communication with the sensor module . In further embodiments the sensor module may be integrated within an existing piece of athletic activity monitoring equipment possibly having additional or different sensors such as for example a heart rate monitoring device a pedometer and accelerometer based monitoring device or other portable fitness monitoring device such as for example devices sold by adidas AG of Herzogenaurach Germany under the MICOACH PACER ZONE or SPEED CELL brand names.

In addition to the acceleration sensor and the magnetic field sensor other sensors that may be part of the sensor module or separate from but in communication with the sensor module may include sensors capable of measuring a variety of athletic performance parameters. The term performance parameters may include physical parameters and or physiological parameters associated with the individual s athletic activity. Physical parameters measured may include but are not limited to time distance speed location pace pedal count wheel rotation count rotation generally stride count stride length airtime stride rate altitude strain impact force jump force force generally and jump height. Physiological parameters measured may include but are not limited to heart rate respiration rate blood oxygen level blood lactate level blood flow hydration level calories burned or body temperature.

Actual sensors that may be capable of measuring these parameters may include but are not limited to a pedometer a pulsimeter a thermometer an altimeter a pressure sensor a strain gage a bicycle power meter a bicycle crank or wheel position sensor a magnetic sensor an angular momentum sensor e.g. a gyroscope a resistance sensor or a force sensor.

The processor the power source the memory the acceleration sensor the magnetic field sensor and the transceiver of the embodiment of may have structures and functions similar to those described above with respect to analogous components in .

The user interface of the sensor module may be used by the individual to interact with the sensor module . In an embodiment the user interface may include one or more input buttons switches or keys including virtual buttons switches or keys of a graphical user interface touch screen surface. The function of each of these buttons switches or keys may be determined based on an operating mode of the sensor module . In one embodiment the user interface may include a touch pad scroll pad and or touch screen. In another embodiment the user interface may include capacitance switches. In a further embodiment the user interface may include voice activated controls.

In some embodiments however the sensor module may not include a user interface . In these embodiments the sensor module may be capable of communicating with other components of the athletic activity monitoring system which may themselves include user interfaces.

The angular momentum sensor which may be for example a gyroscope may be adapted to measure the angular momentum or orientation of the sensor module . Accordingly when the sensor module is physically coupled to an object such as an individual s body or athletic equipment the angular momentum sensor may be capable of measuring the angular momentum or orientation of the object . In one embodiment the angular momentum sensor may be a tri axial gyroscope that is capable of measuring angular rotation about three orthogonal axis. In other embodiments one two three or more separate gyroscopes may be used. In an embodiment the angular momentum sensor may be used to calibrate measurements made by one or more of the acceleration sensor and the magnetic field sensor .

The heart rate sensor may be adapted to measure an individual s heart rate. The heart rate sensor may be placed in contact with the individual s skin such as the skin of the individual s chest and secured with a strap. The heart rate sensor may be capable of reading the electrical activity the individual s heart.

The temperature sensor may be for example a thermometer a thermistor or a thermocouple that measures changes in the temperature. In some embodiments the temperature sensor may primarily be used for calibration other sensors of the athletic activity monitoring system such as for example the acceleration sensor and the magnetic field sensor .

In one embodiment the position receiver may be an electronic satellite position receiver that is capable of determining its location i.e. longitude latitude and altitude using time signals transmitted along a line of sight by radio from satellite position system satellites. Known satellite position systems include the GPS system the Galileo system the BeiDou system and the GLONASS system. In another embodiment the position receiver may be an antennae that is capable of communicating with local or remote base stations or radio transmission transceivers such that the location of the sensor module may be determined using radio signal triangulation or other similar principles. In some embodiments position receiver data may allow the sensor module to detect information that may be used to measure and or calculate position waypoints time location distance traveled speed pace or altitude.

The data port may facilitate information transfer to and from the sensor module and may be for example a USB port. In some exemplary embodiments data port can additionally or alternatively facilitate power transfer to power source in order to charge power source .

The timer may be a clock that is capable of tracking absolute time and or determining elapsed time. In some embodiments the timer may be used to timestamp certain data records such that the time that certain data was measured or recorded may be determined and various timestamps of various pieces of data may be correlated with one another.

In some embodiments of the present invention a sensor module having components such as those depicted in may be physically coupled to an object during an athletic activity conducted by an individual to monitor changes in the spatial orientation of the individual s body or a piece of the individual s athletic equipment to determine a correlation between body or equipment movement data and an activity metric or to compare measured data to previously measured and recorded data. In these embodiments the acceleration sensor the magnetic field sensor and or other included sensors may be responsible for collecting the data necessary to carry out the various monitoring calculations. In some other embodiments however it may be desirable to have additional sensors included within the sensor module to have additional sensors in communication with the sensor module or to have fewer sensors with the sensor module .

As illustrated in in one embodiment the sensor module may include a housing . The housing may contain and protect the various electronic components of the exemplary sensor modules described above with reference to or . Though the housing is illustrated as a circular disc shaped housing in the housing may take on any suitable size and shape that is able to accommodate the necessary components of the sensor module and to physically couple to the desired part of the individual s body . In one embodiment the housing may be made of plastic such as for example TPU or other suitably durable material.

In some embodiments the sensor module may also include a button and or a display. The button may serve as the user interface of the sensor module . The button may be capable of turning the sensor module on and off toggling through various display options or serving a variety of other functions. Alternatively multiple buttons or no buttons may be provided. In one embodiment the display may be a relatively simple LED display that is capable of conveying the status or battery life of the sensor module to an individual . In another embodiment the display may be a more advanced display that is capable of displaying performance parameter information feedback or other information to the individual such as a seven segment LCD display. Alternatively no button or display may be provided as illustrated in .

As illustrated in the ball may include an outer layer enclosing a hollow void of the ball. The outer layer may be stitched bonded and or glued together from panels of leather or plastic and laced to allow access to an internal air bladder if necessary. In other embodiments the ball may be a non hollow sport ball e.g. a baseball bowling ball or golf ball including a single solid layer or multiple different layers. In some embodiments the sensor module may be attached to or incorporated into the ball prior to sale to an individual while in other embodiments the individual may later insert the sensor module after purchasing the ball. In some embodiments the ball may include a button and a display that may be similar to those described above with respect to the body mounted sensor module if present. Alternatively no button or display may be provided as illustrated in .

In some embodiments of the present invention the sensor module may communicate with other components of the athletic activity monitoring system via wired or wireless technologies. Communication between the sensor module and other components of the athletic activity monitoring system may be desirable for a variety of reasons. For example to the extent that the sensor module records and stores athletic activity information it may be useful to transmit this information to another electronic device for additional data processing data visualization sharing with others comparison to previously recorded athletic activity information or a variety of other purposes. As a further example to the extent that the sensor module has insufficient processing power wide area network transmission capabilities sensor capabilities or other capabilities these capabilities can be provided by other components of the athletic activity monitoring system . With this in mind possible communications means are described briefly below.

Wired communication between the sensor module and a personal computer may be achieved for example by placing the sensor module in a docking unit that is attached to the personal computer using a communications wire plugged into a communications port of the personal computer . In another embodiment wired communication between the sensor module and the personal computer may be achieved for example by connecting a cable between the sensor module and the computer . The data port of the sensor module and a communications port of the computer may include USB ports. The cable connecting the sensor module and the computer may be a USB cable with suitable USB plugs including but not limited to USB A or USB B regular mini or micro plugs or other suitable cable such as for example a FireWire Ethernet or Thunderbolt cable. As previously explained above in some embodiments such cables could be used to facilitate power transfer to a power source of the sensor module in order to charge the power source . Alternatively the power source may be recharged by inductive charging or by using a docking station.

Wired connection to a personal computer may be useful for example to upload athletic activity information from the sensor module to the personal computer or to download application software updates or settings from the personal computer to the sensor module .

Wireless communication between the sensor module and the personal computer may be achieved for example by way of a wireless wide area network such as for example the Internet a wireless local area network or a wireless personal area network. As is well known to those skilled in the art there are a number of known standard and proprietary protocols that are suitable for implementing wireless area networks e.g. TCP IP IEEE 802.16 Bluetooth Bluetooth low energy ANT ANT by Dynastream Innovations or BlueRobin . Accordingly embodiments of the present invention are not limited to using any particular protocol to communicate between the sensor module and the various elements of the athletic activity monitoring system of the present invention.

In one embodiment the sensor module may communicate with a wireless wide area network communications system such as that employed by mobile telephones. For example a wireless wide area network communication system may include a plurality of geographically distributed communication towers and base station systems. Communication towers may include one or more antennae supporting long range two way radio frequency communication wireless devices such as sensor module . The radio frequency communication between antennae and the sensor module may utilize radio frequency signals conforming to any known or future developed wireless protocol for example CDMA GSM EDGE 3G 4G IEEE 802.x e.g. IEEE 802.16 WiMAX etc. The information transmitted over the air by the base station systems and the cellular communication towers to the sensor module may be further transmitted to or received from one or more additional circuit switched or packet switched communication networks including for example the Internet.

As shown in communication may also occur between the sensor module a personal computer and or a remote server via a network . In an embodiment the network is the Internet. The Internet is a worldwide collection of servers routers switches and transmission lines that employ the Internet Protocol TCP IP to communicate data. The network may also be employed for communication between any two or more of the sensor module the personal computer the server and a docking unit. In an embodiment of the present invention information is directly communicated between the sensor module and the server via the network thus bypassing the personal computer .

A variety of information may be communicated between any of the sensor module the personal computer the network the server or other electronic components such as for example another sensor module a mobile phone a tablet computer or other portable electronic devices. Such information may include for example performance parameter data device settings including sensor module settings software and firmware.

Communication among the various elements of the present invention may occur after the athletic activity has been completed or in real time during the athletic activity. In addition the interaction between for example the sensor module and the personal computer and the interaction between the personal computer and the server may occur at different times.

In some embodiments of the present invention an individual using the athletic activity monitoring system may participate in the activity with the sensor module physically coupled to the individual s body or to a piece of athletic equipment but with no other portable electronic devices making up part of the athletic activity monitoring system in the individual s immediate vicinity. In such an embodiment the sensor module would monitor the athletic activity using its sensors. The sensor module may also perform calculations necessary to monitor changes in the spatial orientation of the individual s body or a piece of the individual s athletic equipment perform calculations necessary to determine a correlation between body or equipment movement data and an activity metric or to compare measured data to previously measured and recorded data.

Alternatively in this scenario other components of the athletic activity monitoring system that are remotely located from the individual during the activity could be relied upon to perform calculations necessary to monitor changes in the spatial orientation of the individual s body or a piece of the individual s athletic equipment or perform calculations necessary to determine a correlation between body or equipment movement data and an activity metric. This could occur for example after wireless transmission of athletic performance information directly from the sensor module to a personal computer or a server during or after the activity or after a wired transmission of athletic performance information directly from the sensor module to a personal computer after the activity.

However in other embodiments of the present invention as illustrated in the sensor module may communicate with a portable electronic device of the athletic activity monitoring system that is also carried by the individual during the athletic activity. In some embodiments the portable electronic device may be a watch a mobile phone a tablet computer or other portable electronic device.

The portable electronic device may serve a variety of purposes including for example providing additional data processing providing additional data storage providing data visualization providing additional sensor capabilities relaying information to a network or providing for the playback of music.

In one embodiment of the present invention the portable electronic device may be a dedicated portable electronic device . The term dedicated portable electronic device indicates that the portable electronic device is not capable of serving another purpose outside of the athletic activity monitoring system of the present invention. For example a mobile phone a personal digital assistant or a digital music file player e.g. an MP3 player may not be considered to be dedicated portable electronic monitoring devices as the term is used herein. In this manner the dedicated portable electronic monitoring device may in some embodiments provide a simpler and or more efficient device.

The portable electronic device illustrated in is not a dedicated portable electronic monitoring device the portable electronic device illustrated in is a mobile phone. In alternate embodiments it may be possible for the sensor module itself to be embodied by a mobile phone. Including a portable electronic device in the athletic activity monitoring system such as a mobile phone may be desirable as mobile phones are commonly carried by individuals even when engaging in athletic activities and they are capable of providing significant additional computing and communication power at no additional cost to the individual .

In view of the above discussion it is apparent that various processing steps or other calculations recited herein may be capable of being performed by various embodiments of the athletic activity monitoring system disclosed herein and are not necessarily limited to being performed by the sensor module depending on the configuration of a particular embodiment of the present invention. For example any of the processing steps or other calculations recited herein may be performed in various embodiments by the sensor module by a server computer by a personal computer by a portable electronic device and or any other network component or by more than one component.

Embodiments of the present invention may involve the use of so called cloud computing. Cloud computing may include the delivery of computing as a service rather than a product whereby shared resources software and information are provided to computers and other devices as a utility over a network typically the Internet . Cloud computing may entrust services typically centralized with a user s data software and computation on a published application programming interface over a network. End users may access cloud based applications through a web browser or a light weight desktop or mobile app while the business software and data are stored on servers at a remote location. Cloud application providers often strive to give the same or better service and performance than if the software programs were installed locally on end user computers.

In an exemplary embodiment the portable electronic device and or the sensor module may include a sensor garment a heart rate monitor and a position sensor. The position sensor may include for example a position sensor for use with a satellite based positioning system a position sensor for use with a beacon system e.g. position determination using triangulation and or time differences of signals received by antennas at known positions about a field or activity area or a position sensor for use with any other suitable position determining system. In some exemplary embodiments group monitoring device may be used by a coach.

Sensor modules may be mounted to individuals in preparation for participation by individuals in a session of athletic activity. Sensor modules mounted to a particular individual may be coupled either via wires or wirelessly to a portable electronic device also mounted on the particular individual . The sensor modules may sense characteristics about individuals during participation by individuals in the session of athletic activity and transmit data indicative of the characteristics to the portable electronic device . The portable electronic device in turn transmits the data to base station during the session of athletic activity.

In some exemplary embodiments this transmission occurs in real time. Real time as used herein may include delays inherent to transmission technology delays designed to optimize resources and other inherent or desirable delays that would be apparent to one of skill in the art. In some exemplary embodiments this transmission is delayed from real time or may occur after completion of the activity. Base station may receive the data and may determine metrics from the data where the metrics may be representations of the characteristics measured by sensor modules or may be representations of further characteristics derived from the data through the use of algorithms and other data manipulation techniques. Base station in turn may transmit the metrics during the session of athletic activity to group monitoring device which may receive the metrics and display a representation of the metrics.

Group monitoring device may receive metrics associated with a plurality of individuals and may display the received metrics in association with the individuals with which they are associated. In this way a coach viewing group monitoring device during the session of athletic activity receives detailed information about multiple individuals and can act on that information as it is determined necessary or expedient thereby efficiently monitoring and managing individuals during the session of athletic activity.

Suitable group monitoring systems and components may include for example the systems and components disclosed in commonly owned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 077 494 titled Group Performance Monitoring System and Method U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 077 510 titled Group Performance Monitoring System and Method and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 543 428 titled Group Performance Monitoring System and Method whose disclosures are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.

An overview of exemplary embodiments of components of the athletic activity monitoring system of the present invention including exemplary sensor modules has been provided above. A description of various exemplary methods of using the athletic activity monitoring system of the present invention to monitor changes in the spatial orientation of the individual s body or a piece of the individual s athletic equipment to determine a correlation between body or equipment movement data and an activity metric or to compare measured data to previously measured and recorded data is now provided below.

An individual engaged in an athletic activity or another interested person such as a coach teammate or spectator may desire to obtain information about the position and movement of the individual s body or the position and movement of a piece of the individual s athletic equipment during the course of the athletic activity.

For example if the individual is participating in an activity that involves the use of a sport ball such as playing in a soccer match it may be desirable for example to be able to determine the various launch angles at which the soccer ball i.e. football was kicked by the individual to be able to determine the rate of rotation of the soccer ball after it was kicked by the individual to be able to determine various positions of the soccer ball on the field or to be able to determine the peak speeds that the soccer ball was traveling at after being kicked by the individual .

As a further example if the individual is participating in an activity that involves various movements the individual s chest such practicing basketball skills it may be desirable for example to be able to identify instances when the individual cut to the left or cut to the right when trying to dribble around a defender to be able to determine the position of and amount of time spent by the individual at certain locations on the court to be able to determine the height that the individual jumped or the force that the individual jumped with when taking jump shots attempting dunks or attempting to block shots or to be able to determine the individual s reaction time when working on basketball related reaction time drills.

By using the athletic activity monitoring system including the sensor module described above embodiments of the present invention may advantageously enable the individual or their coach teammate or a spectator to obtain this or other information about the position and movement of the individual s body or the position and movement of a piece of the individual s athletic equipment during or after the course of the athletic activity.

While various embodiments of the present invention are described in the context of the sports of soccer i.e. football and basketball the present invention is not so limited and may be applied in a variety of different sports or athletic activities including for example baseball bowling boxing cricket cycling football i.e. American football golf hockey lacrosse rowing rugby running skateboarding skiing surfing swimming table tennis tennis or volleyball or during training sessions related thereto. In addition activity metrics described as being capable of being determined in soccer may be capable of being determined in basketball or vice versa when appropriate.

Data obtained by the sensor module may be processed in a variety of ways to yield useful information about the motion of an object of interest during the activity. In some embodiments sensor module data may be processed to monitor changes in the spatial orientation of the individual s body or a piece of the individual s athletic equipment . In other embodiment sensor module data may be processed to by reference to a predetermined correlation between movement data and an activity metric stored in a data structure. In other embodiments measured data may be compared with previously measured and recorded data.

Regardless of whether the athletic activity monitoring system and the sensor module are being used to monitor the individual s body or a piece of the individual s athletic equipment in embodiments of the present invention where there is a desire to monitor changes in the spatial orientation or movement of the individual s body or the piece of the individual s athletic equipment a common analytical framework may be used to carry out the monitoring. In such an embodiment the individual may use the sensor module in the athletic activity monitoring system to determine a change in spatial orientation or movement of the object . The sensor module may detect movement of the object . In one embodiment movement of the object is detected based on acceleration data captured by the acceleration sensor of the sensor module . In another embodiment movement of the object is detected based on magnetic field data captured by the magnetic field sensor of the sensor module . In yet another embodiment movement of the object is detected based on both acceleration data and magnetic field data. In some embodiments movement of the object may detected based on satellite positioning system data.

In one embodiment the magnetic field sensor may be adapted to measure the intensity and or direction of magnetic fields in the vicinity of the sensor module . In another embodiment the magnetic field sensor may be adapted to measure the intensity and or direction of the earth s magnetic field in the vicinity of the sensor module . In some embodiments the magnetic field sensor may be capable of measuring the magnitude and or direction of a resultant magnetic vector for the total local magnetic field and or for the local earth s magnetic field.

If the monitored object is a soccer ball the detected movement may consist of the soccer ball rolling on the ground as a result of being dribbled by the individual . If the monitored object is the chest of an individual playing basketball the detected movement may consist of the individual s chest moving forward as the individual dribbles a basketball down the court.

In some embodiments the sensor module may then determine that the movement of the object indicates the occurrence of a movement to track. In one embodiment the determination that the movement of the object indicates the occurrence of a movement to track occurs when a threshold data value is met for a predetermined period of time. For example the sensor module may determine that a movement of the object has resulted in a threshold acceleration and or magnetic field change occurring for a predetermined period of time.

In some embodiments the determination of the occurrence of a movement to track is an indication that the movement to track had already begun prior to the determination. In this case it is still possible to capture all of the relevant data relating to the movement as the sensor module may temporarily record a stream of data in a buffer in the event that data that had recently been recorded may need to be examined or more permanently recorded in response to a determination that an occurrence of a movement to track is found. In other embodiments the determination of the occurrence of a movement to track is an indication that the movement to track is about to begin in the near future. In some embodiments the sensor module is adapted to store data permanently or temporarily and may further be adapted to store data for predefined periods of time in certain circumstances such as when populating a data buffer.

If the monitored object is a soccer ball the movement of the soccer ball as a result of the individual swiftly kicking the ball in an attempt to make a goal may result in a determination that the motion of the ball in response to the kick which could include motion of the ball before during and or after the determination was made should be tracked. If the monitored object is the chest of an individual playing basketball the rotation of the individual s chest through one hundred and eighty degrees of rotation when making an offensive movement may result in a determination that the rotation of the individual s chest which could include motion of the individual s chest before during and or after the determination was made should be tracked.

In response to the determination of the occurrence of a movement to track an initial spatial orientation of the object which may include the object s position may be determined. In some embodiments the determination of an initial spatial orientation of the object may be made by reference to a coordinate axis system.

A coordinate axis system is a useful analytical tool for monitoring changes in the spatial orientation of an object . illustrates an exemplary three dimensional Cartesian coordinate axis system having three axes an X axis a Y axis and a Z axis. Two vectors G and B are superimposed on the coordinate axis system illustrated in . The G vector pointing in the Y direction represents a gravity vector. The B vector represents a resultant magnetic field vector.

In one embodiment the determination of the initial spatial orientation of the object may be made with respect to a gravity vector such as that illustrated in . In another embodiment the determination of the initial spatial orientation of the object may be made with respect to an earth magnetic field vector such as that illustrated in . In other embodiments the determination of the initial spatial orientation of the object may be made with respect to characterizations of the way that the object translated and rotated in three dimensional space with six degrees of freedom as explained with reference to .

After the determination of the initial orientation of the object at a first time has been made a change in the spatial orientation of the object may be determined. In an embodiment the determination of the change in the spatial orientation of the object may be made similarly to the determination of the initial orientation of the object except that additional information about changes in the orientation of the gravity vector and or the magnetic field vector as the object moves may be additionally factored in.

An activity metric can be determined based on the change in the spatial orientation of the object determined. The nature of the activity metric may change based on the athletic activity that the individual is participating in as well as particular object that is being monitored. In one embodiment the activity metric may relate to for example a launch angle a rate of rotation a speed a location a jump height a jump force a jump distance a kick force a kick distance a characterization of a specific type of athletic movement or a reaction time measurement. In other embodiments the activity metric may be for example the rate of rotation the plane of rotation the jump force force profile force acting upon the body of the athlete or the ground or the object stroke information in tennis swing profile in golf baseball hockey stick kick profile of a leg angle position of a bike pedal power output of a cyclist fatigue tremors starting to occur in repeated motion i.e. running lifting swimming rowing etc. posture throwing or arm swing technique and shooting technique.

An output can be provided that conveys the activity metric to the individual a coach a teammate a spectator or any other interested person. In one embodiment the output may be an audible visual and or haptic output.

In some embodiments of the present invention the sensor module may be capable of compensating for inherent deficiencies that may be present for various types of sensor contained within or in communication with the sensor module . Most real world sensors have limitations. For example accelerometers magnetometers gyroscopes and satellite positioning system receivers may have accuracy issues particularly when used at speeds or under other conditions that differ from their initial calibration conditions.

In some systems if sensor data such as acceleration sensor or magnetic field sensor data is temporarily lost or otherwise unavailable the data from the unavailable sensor is not used in subsequent processing or calculations. In other systems lost data may be estimated by straight line methods where for example it is assumed that the data stays constant or changes at a constant rate. However in some embodiments of the present invention sensor data such as one of acceleration sensor or magnetic field sensor data may be used to compensate for and or estimate the changes in the other of acceleration sensor or magnetic field sensor data based on known derived or estimate correlations between the two types of data or data extrapolation.

By combining the data produced by for example acceleration sensor and a magnetic field sensor systems and methods according to embodiments of the present invention are able to more accurately determine absolute data values or activity metrics even when data from one of the acceleration sensor or the magnetic field sensor is lost for any reason. Using the data that is not missing the system can continue to provide data values or activity metrics to fill in the holes until the missing data is regained or otherwise again sampled.

In other embodiments of the present invention angular momentum sensor data such as gyroscope data may be used in combination with one or more of acceleration sensor or magnetic field sensor data for data calibration and or extrapolation.

In some embodiments of the present invention calibration and or generation of correction factor data for an acceleration sensor or magnetic field sensor based sensor modules may be performed under a variety of different use conditions e.g. calibration data or correction factors may be generated for use at different movement speeds for use with an individual s body with a piece of athletic equipment for use in different sports for use under different wind conditions for use under different court or field conditions etc. Moreover this variety of correction factors and or calibration data may be collected in the background over time as the individual continues using the system. In this manner a lookup table or other universe or library of calibration data or correction factors may be built up and stored in the monitoring system optionally in the portable portion of the system such that an appropriate correction factor could be generated and applied for a full range of individual or athletic equipment speeds and or other use conditions.

A microprocessor provided with the system optionally in the portable portion of the system in the personal computer etc. may be programmed to interpolate between and or extrapolate from known calibration or correction factors to arrive at the most appropriate calibration or correction factor for use at any speed or other use condition s . Also in this manner different calibration or correction factors may be applied at different times during a single athletic performance e.g. based on the speed or other use conditions determined at a given time during the performance to further help improve the overall accuracy of the speed and distance monitor. By having a variety of correction or calibration factors available under different performance conditions the sensor module will tend to become more accurate particularly over time and with increased use because of the increased number of calibration and correction factors generated with increased use.

In one embodiment of the present invention the sensor module may be affected by perturbations in local magnetic fields such as the earth s magnetic field. The local magnetic field may be more variable at certain distances near the surface of the earth than at other distances further away from the earth. For example the local magnetic field may be more variable or perturbed within approximately three feet of the surface of the earth than at more than approximately three feet away from the surface of the earth. Accordingly in some embodiments magnetic field sensor data obtained from an object when the object is more than approximately three feet away from the surface of the earth may be used to extrapolate or otherwise estimate proper or likely magnetic field sensor data from when the object was within approximately three feet of the surface of the earth if the magnetic field sensor data from when the object was within approximately three feet of the surface of the earth is otherwise deemed to be unreliable due to the relatively high variability in local magnetic fields such as the earth s magnetic field near the surface of the earth.

In some embodiments sensor module of monitoring system can be mounted to an individual . In some embodiments multiple sensor modules can be mounted to individual e.g. one sensor module having axes at one or more oblique angles to another sensor module . In some embodiments sensor modules may be mounted to individual at different locations e.g. on the trunk of individual on one or more appendages of individual . For example individual may be an athlete performing an athletic activity. Monitoring system including sensor module mounted to individual is referred to as monitoring system . Sensor module can be mounted to individual using any suitable technique. For example sensor module may be worn by individual by being coupled to an exterior or interior of individual by being mounted to individual using a harness system worn by individual by being carried in a pocket of a garment worn by individual by being affixed to the skin of individual e.g. using adhesive by being carried by an article of equipment carried or worn by individual e.g. a helmet a mouth guard a jock strap a protective pad an article of footwear or by being inserted within the body of individual e.g. surgically orally . Exemplary techniques that can be employed to mount sensor module to individual are described in commonly owned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 077 520 filed Mar. 31 2011 whose disclosure is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

In some embodiments sensor module can be activated i.e. enter an active state in response to sensing an activation motion or movement of individual the terms motion and movement are used interchangeably herein . In some embodiments the activation motion may be for example jumping above a predetermined height jumping a predetermined number of times in within a predetermined period walking a predetermined number of steps. In some embodiments the activation motion may be for example a sequence of motions e.g. motion in response to three jumps performed in quick succession or within a predetermined time period such as for example 3 seconds . Upon activation sensor module begins to store e.g. in memory and or transfer sensed data to a remote device as described herein. In some embodiments in an active state sensor module may continuously sense data e.g. acceleration data data representative of acceleration is determined by acceleration sensor of sensor module and magnetic field data data representative of a magnetic field is determined by magnetic field sensor of sensor module . In some embodiments data is sensed by sensor module periodically e.g. every 50 milliseconds ms every 10 ms every 1 ms .

In some embodiments sensor module can be deactivated e.g. enter a low power standby state detecting acceleration at a low frequency relative to the active state in response to sensing no motion of sensor module for a predetermined period of time e.g. 30 minutes . In some embodiments sensor module can be deactivated in response to sensing a deactivation motion individual . In some embodiments the deactivation motion may be for example any of the motions described above as an activation motion. In some embodiments a deactivation motion may be the same as an activation motion. In some embodiments a deactivation motion may be different from an activation motion.

In some embodiments data sensed by sensor module may be time correlated e.g. stored in association with time data representing the time at which the data was sensed . The time at which data is sensed can be provided via timer . In operation sensor module of monitoring system senses and processes signals as described herein to output representations of activity metrics of individual . In some embodiments representations of activity metrics can be output to for example a display device e.g. a display of personal computer portable electronic device or sensor module . Sensor module can be powered by any suitable technique including those described herein.

In some embodiments monitoring system including sensor module mounted to individual can be used to determine a variety of activity metrics about individual including characteristics relating to motion of individual . For example monitoring system can be used to identify a motion characteristic of individual e.g. position of individual or a portion thereof orientation of individual or a portion thereof orientation and or magnitude of speed of individual or a portion thereof orientation and or magnitude of acceleration of individual or a portion thereof orientation and or magnitude of forces applied to individual or a portion thereof duration of movement of individual or a portion thereof posture of individual or a portion thereof and or rotation of individual or a portion thereof to identify a motion made by individual to determine a jump characteristic of individual e.g. maximum jump height jump force or to determine reaction time of individual e.g. time to perform an instructed motion after being instructed or time to reach a target for example to reach maximum speed to reach a fully erect position from a crouch to dive from an upright position . In some embodiments monitoring system can be used to define a motion. For example monitoring system can be used to define a motion made by individual in terms of data sensed by sensor module during performance of the motion. Monitoring system can perform operations as described herein to determine such activity metrics using any suitable components. For example sensing operations as described may be carried out by a sensor of sensor module of monitoring system e.g. acceleration sensor or magnetic field sensor as appropriate . Also for example operations involving processing of data e.g. identifying determining calculating storing may be carried out by processor of sensor module or by a processor of any other device of or in communication with monitoring system e.g. server personal computer or portable electronic device .

In some embodiments calibration data is sensed by sensor module when individual or at least sensor module is in a calibration state. In some embodiments sensor module is in a calibration state when sensor module is stationary e.g. with respect to an external coordinate system i.e. a coordinate system independent of sensor module such as for example coordinate system depicted in for a period of time e.g. 10 ms or longer . In some embodiments sensor module can be considered stationary when sensor module senses resultant acceleration of about 1G i.e. resultant acceleration within a threshold tolerance of 1G for example within 5 of 1G . In some embodiments sensor module can be considered stationary at times while individual is performing a movement. For example sensor module can be stationary for a period of time within a period of time in which a basketball player jumps e.g. a period of time connecting spanning the transition from downward motion of individual while bending to initiation the jump to upward motion of individual to begin launch of the jump sensor module can be considered stationary where resultant acceleration sensed by sensor module is about 1G . Also for example sensor module can be stationary due to its location on individual though individual is performing a motion e.g. a sensor module connected to the foot of individual may be considered stationary each time the foot is planted during a running movement of individual where resultant acceleration sensed by sensor module is about 1G .

Sensor module is depicted in the calibration state in . Sensor module may be in the calibration state at any point relative to an athletic activity e.g. before during or after an athletic activity . In some embodiments sensor module is determined to be in a calibration state and calibration data can be sensed each time sensor module is stationary. In some embodiments sensor module is determined to be in a calibration state and calibration data can be sensed each time sensor module is stationary for more than a threshold duration e.g. 1 second where calibration data has not been sensed for a threshold duration e.g. 1 minute 10 minutes 30 minutes .

In some embodiments in the calibration state acceleration sensor of sensor module senses acceleration data. In some embodiments magnetic field sensor of sensor module senses magnetic field data e.g. data relating to the magnetic field of the earth . In some embodiments calibration data includes both acceleration data and magnetic field data. In some embodiments calibration data includes one of acceleration data and magnetic field data.

In some embodiments in the calibration state the acceleration data sensed by acceleration sensor of sensor module is acceleration due to gravity which can be used by monitoring system to determine one or both of orientation of acceleration due to gravity with respect to sensor module and magnitude of acceleration due to gravity at sensor module together gravity vector .

In some embodiments in the calibration state magnetic field sensor of sensor module senses one or both of orientation of a magnetic field with respect to sensor module and magnitude of the magnetic field at sensor module together magnetic field vector .

In some embodiments sensor module senses calibration data that is to be relied upon for one or more subsequent calculations. In some embodiments the calibration data sensed when sensor module is in the calibration state can be used to establish external coordinate system . In some embodiments external coordinate system can be established by reference to the orientation of gravity vector e.g. to establish the direction of down since gravity is known to cause downward acceleration . In some embodiments external coordinate system can be established by reference to the orientation of magnetic field vector e.g. to establish a constant reference direction since the magnetic field will typically be appreciably constant over the area of a typical play area for an athletic activity . In some embodiments external coordinate system can be established by reference to the orientation of gravity vector and the orientation of magnetic field vector .

During motion individual and sensor module may move in any or all of six degrees of freedom three linear degrees 1 up down e.g. along the Y axis in external coordinate system 2 left right e.g. along the X axis in external coordinate system and 3 backward forward e.g. along the Z axis in external coordinate system and three rotational degrees 1 yaw e.g. in the angular direction in external coordinate system 2 roll e.g. in the angular direction in external coordinate system and 3 pitch e.g. in the angular direction in external coordinate system .

Individual or other person may desire to know activity metrics of individual for example to learn the effects of actions of individual . Monitoring system may determine such activity metrics e.g. identification of forces acting on or applied by individual identification of a motion made by individual determination of a jump characteristic of individual and determination of a reaction time of individual . Sensor module may output data representative of such activity metrics e.g. to a display device of personal computer or portable electronic device . Such data may be outputted from sensor module in raw form e.g. unprocessed signals from acceleration sensor and or magnetic field sensor or in representative form e.g. data that results from processing signals from acceleration sensor and or magnetic field sensor . In some embodiments monitoring system outputs a representation of one or more activity metrics in a manner perceivable by individual and or other person.

Data representative of such activity metrics can be processed and or output in any suitable manner such as for example those described herein.

In some embodiments movement data profiles i.e. one or more of sensed acceleration data and magnetic field data that define a movement for one or more movements may be stored within or otherwise accessible by monitoring system such that monitoring system can compare sensed acceleration data and magnetic field data with the movement data profiles.

In some embodiments monitoring system may compare sensed acceleration data and magnetic field data of individual with one or more movement data profiles. In some embodiments monitoring system may perform such comparison continuously.

In some embodiments upon determining a sufficient degree of correspondence between the sensed acceleration data and magnetic field data and a movement data profile or portion thereof monitoring system identifies the motion corresponding to that movement data profile as the movement performed by individual . In some embodiments a sufficient degree of correspondence is determined where the difference between the sensed acceleration data and magnetic field data and the movement data profile is less than a predetermined threshold the threshold may be different for different movement data profiles .

In some embodiments movement data profiles can include expressions of acceleration data and magnetic field data and variables derived therefrom e.g. force acceleration magnitude acceleration orientation magnetic field magnitude magnetic field orientation and can be expressed and or stored as data structures within monitoring system for example as an algorithm as a graphical curve or as a lookup table.

In some embodiments representations of activity metrics can be presented as functions of one another or of other variables. For example jump height can be presented as a function of trunk orientation or of launch angle of a ball. Also for example activity metrics can be presented as a function of location e.g. location on a playing field proximity to a player proximity to a goal as a function of an event e.g. scoring of a field goal committing a foul as a function of an environmental condition e.g. ambient temperature precipitation or as a function of a physiological condition of an individual e.g. heart rate body temperature . Information relating to such variables e.g. location information event information environmental condition information and physiological condition information may be provided to monitoring system from appropriate sensors incorporated therein or from elements outside of monitoring system that are in communication with monitoring system .

In some embodiments for example as shown in an external coordinate system e.g. external coordinate system is determined at a first time where sensor module is in a calibration state at the first time. In some embodiments the orientation of an internal coordinate system fixed with reference to sensor module e.g. internal coordinate system is determined relative to external coordinate system. For ease of description internal coordinate system is described herein to align with external coordinate system at the first time but it should be understood that internal coordinate system need not align with external coordinate system e.g. internal coordinate system may be established by an angular offset from external coordinate system and that internal coordinate system need not be characterized by traditional coordinate components but may be characterized simply by some reference establishing the relative orientation of sensor module with respect to the external coordinate system e.g. external coordinate system . Components of internal coordinate system are designated in the figures as X e.g. left right Y e.g. up down Z e.g. backward forward e.g. yaw e.g. roll and e.g. pitch and changes in the coordinate components are designated as X Y Z and respectively see e.g. .

For example as depicted in in some embodiments acceleration sensor is used to determine the orientation of gravity vector with respect to sensor module i.e. with respect to internal coordinate system at the first time and in some embodiments magnetic field sensor is used to determine the orientation of magnetic field vector with respect to sensor module at the first time. In some embodiments the orientation of internal coordinate system with respect to external coordinate system can be determined based on one or both of gravity vector and magnetic field vector . In this way an initial orientation of individual can be determined based on the initial orientation of sensor module including internal coordinate system within external coordinate system .

In some embodiments monitoring device determines and or outputs one or more sensed motion characteristics of individual including for example position of individual or a portion thereof orientation of individual or a portion thereof orientation and or magnitude of speed of individual or a portion thereof orientation and or magnitude of acceleration of individual or a portion thereof orientation and or magnitude of forces applied to individual or a portion thereof duration of movement of individual or a portion thereof posture of individual or a portion thereof rotation of individual or a portion thereof and or a degree of correspondence to a movement data profile or changes therein.

In some embodiments for example see rotation e.g. three dimensional rotation of individual including for example rotation of individual as a whole or of one or more monitored portions of individual recognizing that portions of individual may move relative to each other can be determined between the first time and a second time where individual is in motion at the second time. In some embodiments such rotation can be output by monitoring system and or used by monitoring system for further operations.

For example in some embodiments the change in orientation of individual between the first time and the second time is determined based on magnetic field data sensed by magnetic field sensor from the first time to the second time. For example the change in orientation of individual between the first time and the second time may be expressed by the angular difference of axes X Y and Z between the first time and the second time with respect to external coordinate system depicted as and .

In some embodiments for example see the change in position of individual between the first time and the second time is determined based on acceleration data sensed by acceleration sensor from the first time to the second time. In some embodiments such change in position can be output by monitoring system and or used by monitoring system for further operations.

For example the change in position of individual between the first time and the second time may be expressed by the linear difference in position of sensor module along of axes X Y and Z between the first time and the second time with respect to external coordinate system depicted as X Y and Z .

As described individual s motion between two points in time can be characterized by change in position and change in orientation of sensor module between the two points in time. In some embodiments a more complete representation of individual s motion can be characterized by monitoring change in position and change in orientation of sensor module between multiple sequential points in time. In other words the technique described above for characterizing individual s motion between two points can be repeated from the second time to a third time. Change in position and change in orientation can be measured absolutely e.g. with continuing reference to the position and orientation of sensor module at the first time which may be a calibration state or relatively e.g. with reference to the immediately preceding position and orientation or any other sensed position and orientation . As will be appreciated the greater the rate of sampling of position and orientation the more complete the representation of individual s motion will be. In some embodiments where change in position and change in orientation is measured relatively sensor module may not be calibrated with respect to an external coordinate system.

In some embodiments as noted above sensor module of monitoring system can be mounted in an object which can be a piece of athletic equipment such as for example ball . In some embodiments multiple sensor modules can be mounted in ball e.g. one sensor module having axes at one or more oblique angles to another sensor module . Ball may be any ball such as for example a ball typically used in an athletic activity such as for example a soccer ball a basketball a baseball an American football a rugby ball a tennis ball a table tennis ball a bowling ball a golf ball a billiards ball a croquet ball a marble a tetherball or a beach ball. Monitoring system including sensor module mounted to ball is referred to as monitoring system . Sensor module can be mounted to ball using any suitable technique. For example sensor module may be affixed to an exterior or interior surface of ball may be mounted within ball using a harness system e.g. suspended away from an inner wall of ball for example at the center of ball or may be embedded in a material of ball . Exemplary techniques that can be employed to mount sensor module to ball are disclosed in commonly owned U.S. Pat. No. 7 740 551 filed Nov. 18 2009 whose disclosure is incorporated herein by reference thereto in its entirety.

In some embodiments sensor module can be activated i.e. enter an active state in response to sensing an activation motion of ball . In some embodiments the activation motion may be for example motion in response to a kick of ball e.g. an acceleration impulse sensed above a threshold or a drop in sensed acceleration to near zero . In some embodiments the activation motion may be for example a kick of throw resulting in travel by ball of at least a threshold distance or height e.g. 2 meters e.g. an acceleration sensed to correspond to such motion . In some embodiments the activation motion may be for example a sequence of motions e.g. motion in response to a kick of ball followed by travel by ball of at least a threshold distance or height . Upon activation sensor module begins to store e.g. in memory and or transfer sensed data to a remote device as described herein. In some embodiments in an active state sensor module may continuously sense data e.g. acceleration data data representative of acceleration is determined by acceleration sensor of sensor module and magnetic field data data representative of a magnetic field is determined by magnetic field sensor of sensor module . In some embodiments data is sensed by sensor module periodically e.g. every 50 milliseconds ms every 10 ms every 1 ms .

In some embodiments sensor module can be deactivated e.g. enter a low power standby state detecting acceleration at a low frequency relative to the active state in response to sensing no motion of sensor module for a predetermined period of time e.g. 30 minutes . In some embodiments sensor module can be deactivated in response to sensing a deactivation motion of ball . In some embodiments the deactivation motion may be for example any of the motions described above as an activation motion. In some embodiments a deactivation motion may be the same as an activation motion. In some embodiments a deactivation motion may be different from an activation motion.

In some embodiments data sensed by sensor module may be time correlated e.g. stored in association with time data representing the time at which the data was sensed . The time at which data is sensed can be provided via timer . In operation sensor module of monitoring system senses and processes signals as described herein to output representations of activity metrics of ball . In some embodiments representations of activity metrics can be output to for example a display device e.g. a display of personal computer portable electronic device or sensor module .

Sensor module can be powered by any suitable technique including those described herein. For example sensor module can be powered by charging via a charging base see e.g. . For example power source of sensor module may be powered by inductive charging in which case an inductive coil may be mounted in ball and coupled to power source of sensor module . In some embodiments the inductive coil may receive power from an inductive charging device e.g. charging base when ball is placed so that the inductive coil is sufficiently close to an inductive coil charging device. In some embodiments ball has exterior markings e.g. marking to indicate the location of the inductive coil to facilitate optimum orientation of ball i.e. the orientation having the inductive coil closest to the inductive coil charging device . In some embodiments sensor module is coupled to a visual indicator such as for example an externally visible light emitting diode LED that gives an indication e.g. LED emits light light emitted by LED changes color speed of LED blinking changes of the strength of charge being received through the inductive coil to facilitate optimum orientation of ball .

In some embodiments monitoring system including sensor module mounted in ball can be used to determine a variety of activity metrics about ball and or an individual interacting with ball including characteristics relating to motion of ball . For example monitoring system can be used to determine location of ball trajectory of ball launch angle of ball rotation rate of ball orientation of rotation plane of ball orientation of rotation axis of ball travel speed of ball launch speed of ball force of a kick or other impact on ball distance of travel of ball and maximum acceleration of ball . Monitoring system can perform operations as described herein to determine such activity metrics using any suitable components. For example sensing operations as described may be carried out by a sensor of sensor module of monitoring system e.g. acceleration sensor or magnetic field sensor as appropriate . Also for example operations involving processing of data e.g. identifying determining calculating storing may be carried out by processor of sensor module or by a processor of any other device of or in communication with monitoring system e.g. server personal computer or portable electronic device .

In some embodiments calibration data is sensed by sensor module when ball is in a calibration state. In some embodiments ball is in a calibration state when ball is stationary e.g. with respect to an external coordinate system i.e. a coordinate system independent of sensor module such as for example coordinate system depicted in for a period of time e.g. 10 ms or longer . In some embodiments ball can be considered stationary when sensor module of ball senses resultant acceleration of about 1G i.e. resultant acceleration within a threshold tolerance of 1G for example within 5 of 1G . In some embodiments ball can be considered stationary at times while being handled by an individual. For example ball can be stationary for a period of time within a period of time in which a basketball player takes a jump shot with ball e.g. before release of ball from the hands of the individual ball can be considered stationary where resultant acceleration sensed by sensor module is about 1G . Also for example ball can be stationary for a period of time within a period of time in which a baseball player performs a throw of ball e.g. a period of time spanning the transition from rearward motion to forward motion of the individual s throwing motion where resultant acceleration sensed by sensor module is about 1G .

Ball including sensor module is depicted in the calibration state at time tin . Ball may be in the calibration state at any point relative to an athletic activity e.g. before during or after an athletic activity . In some embodiments ball is determined to be in a calibration state and calibration data can be sensed each time ball is stationary for more than a threshold duration e.g. 1 second . In some embodiments ball is determined to be in a calibration state and calibration data can be sensed each time ball is stationary.

In some embodiments in the calibration state acceleration sensor of sensor module senses acceleration data. In some embodiments magnetic field sensor of sensor module senses magnetic field data e.g. data relating to the magnetic field of the earth . In some embodiments calibration data includes both acceleration data and magnetic field data. In some embodiments calibration data includes one of acceleration data and magnetic field data.

In some embodiments in the calibration state the acceleration data sensed by acceleration sensor of sensor module is acceleration due to gravity which can be used by monitoring system to determine one or both of orientation of acceleration due to gravity with respect to sensor module and magnitude of acceleration due to gravity at sensor module together gravity vector .

In some embodiments in the calibration state magnetic field sensor of sensor module senses one or both of orientation of a magnetic field with respect to sensor module and magnitude of the magnetic field at sensor module together magnetic field vector .

In some embodiments sensor module senses calibration data that is to be relied upon for one or more subsequent calculations. In some embodiments the calibration data sensed when sensor module is in the calibration state can be used to establish external coordinate system . In some embodiments external coordinate system can be established by reference to the orientation of gravity vector e.g. to establish the direction of down since gravity is known to cause downward acceleration . In some embodiments external coordinate system can be established by reference to the orientation of magnetic field vector e.g. to establish a constant reference direction since the magnetic field will typically be appreciably constant over the area of a typical play area for an athletic activity . In some embodiments external coordinate system can be established by reference to the orientation of gravity vector and the orientation of magnetic field vector .

During motion of ball e.g. after ball is kicked or hit ball may move in any or all of six degrees of freedom three linear degrees 1 up down e.g. along the Y axis in external coordinate system 2 left right e.g. along the X axis in external coordinate system and 3 backward forward e.g. along the Z axis in external coordinate system and three rotational degrees 1 yaw e.g. in the angular direction in external coordinate system 2 roll e.g. in the angular direction in external coordinate system and 3 pitch e.g. in the angular direction in external coordinate system .

Individual or other person may desire to know activity metrics of ball for example to learn the effects that actions of individual have on ball e.g. a kick or throw of ball by individual . Monitoring system may determine such activity metrics e.g. location of ball trajectory of ball launch angle of ball rotation rate of ball orientation of rotation plane of ball orientation of rotation axis of ball travel speed of ball launch speed of ball force of a kick or other impact on ball distance of travel of ball and maximum acceleration of ball . Sensor module may output data representative of such activity metrics e.g. to a display device of personal computer or portable electronic device . Such data may be outputted from sensor module in raw form e.g. unprocessed signals from acceleration sensor and or magnetic field sensor or in representative form e.g. data that results from processing signals from acceleration sensor and or magnetic field sensor . In some embodiments monitoring system outputs a representation of one or more activity metrics in a manner perceivable by individual and or other person.

Data representative of such activity metrics can be processed and or output in any suitable manner such as for example those described herein.

As noted herein in some embodiments monitoring system can determine and or output a representation of instantaneous trajectory of ball over a period of time or at a particular point in time the instantaneous trajectory being a representation of the direction of motion of ball in motion . In some embodiments monitoring system can determine and or output a representation of the location of ball . In some embodiments monitoring system can determine and or output a representation of launch angle of ball . In some embodiments launch angle can be determined to correspond to instantaneous trajectory of ball at a point in time sufficiently close to initiation of motion of ball e.g. shortly after ball has been kicked or hit . In some embodiments initiation of motion of ball is determined based on a sensed impulse acceleration exceeding a threshold. In some embodiments launch angle can be determined to correspond to instantaneous trajectory of ball less than 150 ms e.g. 100 ms to 150 ms after initiation of motion of ball . In some embodiments launch angle can be determined to correspond to instantaneous trajectory of ball at the earliest time after initiation of motion of ball at which acceleration magnitude can be sensed. In some embodiments this time may immediately follow a period of less reliable data output by acceleration sensor where such data output is less reliable than data output by acceleration sensor at other times . Such less reliable data output may be the result of for example a disturbance e.g. railing in sensed acceleration data e.g. due to sudden change in acceleration for example upon an impact or gain saturation of the acceleration sensor signal e.g. a period during which the acceleration sensor outputs its maximum acceleration signal because acceleration is higher than the maximum acceleration it can sense which may result from for example the high initial acceleration of ball in reaction to an impact e.g. a kick a throw a shot . In some embodiments such less reliable acceleration data output may be experienced for a time e.g. 100 150 ms after impact of a kick e.g. about 10 ms for the duration of kick impact and about 90 ms to 140 ms after impact .

Launch angle can correspond to instantaneous trajectory as the angle of the vertical component of the direction of travel of ball in free flight sufficiently close to initiation of motion of ball . In some embodiments free flight is determined based on acceleration data. Immediately upon entering free flight e.g. upon ball being thrown or kicked acceleration data sensed by acceleration sensor shows resultant acceleration of less than 1G i.e. less than the acceleration due to gravity . For example resultant acceleration may drop from 1G e.g. in a stationary or non free flight state to 0.5G e.g. in free flight . The time at which this drop takes place can be determined as the initiation of free flight. Continued free flight can be determined while resultant acceleration remains below 1G. In some embodiments the magnitude of acceleration due to gravity can be predefined or can be determined based on acceleration data sensed while ball is stationary e.g. in a calibration state .

The closer to initiation of motion that the angle of the vertical component of the direction of travel of ball in free flight is determined the more representative of launch angle it may be. Beyond initiation of motion the angle of the vertical component of the direction of travel of ball in free flight may change e.g. decrease . In some embodiments this change can be compensated for using a formula based on the instantaneous trajectory speed see below and time after initiation of motion to increase the accuracy of the launch angle determination. In some embodiments the path of ball during a period of gain saturation i.e. while the acceleration sensor is railed can be determined based on magnetic field data sensed during that time. In some embodiments the launch angle at the moment of impact can be determined based on this path.

In some embodiments instantaneous trajectory and or launch angle of ball can be determined based on one or more of acceleration data and magnetic field data e.g. sensed by acceleration sensor and or magnetic field sensor at a first earlier time and one or more of acceleration data and magnetic field data e.g. sensed by acceleration sensor and magnetic field sensor at a second later time. In some embodiments at the first time ball is stationary e.g. in a calibration state and at the second time ball is in motion e.g. motion of ball is initiated between the first time and the second time .

In some embodiments for example as shown in an external coordinate system e.g. external coordinate system is determined at a first time where ball is in a calibration state at the first time. In some embodiments the orientation of an internal coordinate system fixed with reference to sensor module e.g. internal coordinate system is determined relative to external coordinate system . For ease of description internal coordinate system is described herein to align with external coordinate system at the first time but it should be understood that internal coordinate system need not align with external coordinate system e.g. internal coordinate system may be established by an angular offset from external coordinate system and that internal coordinate system need not be characterized by traditional coordinate components but may be characterized simply by some reference establishing the relative orientation of sensor module with respect to the external coordinate system e.g. external coordinate system . Components of internal coordinate system are designated in the figures as X e.g. left right Y e.g. up down Z e.g. backward forward e.g. yaw e.g. roll and e.g. pitch and changes in the coordinate components are designated as X Y Z and respectively see e.g. .

For example as depicted in in some embodiments acceleration sensor is used to determine the orientation of gravity vector with respect to sensor module i.e. with respect to internal coordinate system at the first time and in some embodiments magnetic field sensor is used to determine the orientation of magnetic field vector with respect to sensor module at the first time. In some embodiments the orientation of internal coordinate system with respect to external coordinate system can be determined based on one or both of gravity vector and magnetic field vector . In this way an initial orientation of ball can be determined based on the initial orientation of sensor module including internal coordinate system within external coordinate system .

In some embodiments for example see rotation e.g. three dimensional rotation of ball is sensed and measured between the first time and a second time where ball is in motion at the second time e.g. shortly after motion is initiated such as for example 100 ms after motion is detected . In some embodiments such rotation can be output by monitoring system and or used by monitoring system for further operations.

For example in some embodiments the change in orientation of ball between the first time and the second time is determined based on magnetic field data sensed by magnetic field sensor from the first time to the second time. For example the change in orientation of ball between the first time and the second time may be expressed by the angular difference of axes X Y and Z between the first time and the second time with respect to external coordinate system depicted as and .

Also for example in some embodiments the change in position of ball between the first time and the second time can be determined based on acceleration data sensed by acceleration sensor and or magnetic field data sensed by magnetic field sensor from the first time to the second time. In some embodiments such change in position can be output by monitoring system and or used by monitoring system for further operations.

For example the change in position of ball between the first time and the second time may be expressed by the linear difference in position of sensor module along of axes X Y and Z between the first time and the second time with respect to external coordinate system depicted as X Y and Z .

In some embodiments at the second time acceleration sensor of sensor module senses one or both of orientation of acceleration i.e. the acceleration direction of sensor module and thus ball with respect to sensor and magnitude of acceleration of sensor module together a resultant acceleration vector . In some embodiments the acceleration sensed by sensor module is substantially entirely due to the effects of drag i.e. deceleration due to a drag force on ball . In some embodiments acceleration sensor is an inertial system and thus does not sense acceleration due to gravity when in free flight. 

In some embodiments a plurality of individuals may be monitored. For example a plurality of individuals may be monitored via a plurality of sensor modules by a plurality of monitoring systems or a plurality of individuals may be monitored via a plurality of sensor modules by the same monitoring system . Such individuals may be monitored in any manner desired for example simultaneously at different times while participating in different athletic activities while participating in the same athletic activity. Activity metrics derived from each of the plurality of individuals and activity metrics can be similarly compared combined and or represented as described above. Such comparison combination and or representations can be made based on each individual considered separately on a subset of individuals grouped together e.g. a team midfielders of a team or on all monitored individuals. In a game setting such comparison combination and or representations can be correlated to game events such as a goal a ball traveling out of bounds a penalty kick or a jump ball which can be output in relation to contemporaneous activity metrics of individual s as described.

Such comparing combining and or representing data derived from monitoring individual s and or monitored objects can provide benefits to for example the individuals participating in an athletic activity coaches spectators physicians and game officials. Such persons may interact or work together during a session of athletic activity for a variety of reasons.

For example it may be desired that a coach monitors the performance of the monitored individual s and makes recommendations or otherwise influences their performance in order to maximize fitness level of individual s . Alternatively or additionally it may be desired that the coach monitors and influences individual s to help maximize the effectiveness of individual s in the athletic activity. Further it may be desired that the coach monitors and influences individual s to help maximize the probability of success in the athletic activity where success may be for example defeating an opposing team in a game such as for example soccer or achieving maintaining a desired level of fitness for one or more individual s participating in the athletic activity . A session of athletic activity may include for example a training session e.g. a field session a gym session a track session or a competitive session e.g. a soccer match or a basketball game .

In some exemplary embodiments the coach may monitor one or more individual s and or monitored objects and may provide feedback to individual s in order to track and maintain or improve the health safety and or performance of individual s .

The coach must consider these and other goals monitor the activity of individual s and or monitored objects and make decisions to influence the performance of individual s both individually and as a group. In doing so the coach depends on information about individual s and their performance while participating in a session of athletic activity. A monitoring system e.g. monitoring system that provides data about individual s and or monitored objects interacted with by the individuals can provide the coach with easy to understand information about individuals participating in the athletic activity beyond that which can be directly observed thereby facilitating quick and effective decision making by the coach to maximize the probability of achieving success in the athletic activity.

As noted above a variety of information may be communicated between any of the elements of monitoring system including for example sensor module personal computer portable electronic device network and server . Such information may include for example activity metrics device settings including sensor module settings software and firmware.

Communication among the various elements of the present invention may occur after the athletic activity has been completed or in real time during the athletic activity. In addition the interaction between for example sensor module and personal computer and the interaction between for example the personal computer and the server may occur at different times.

In the case of a plurality of monitored individuals and or monitored objects in some embodiments sensor devices e.g. sensor module s associated with each monitored individual and or object may each transmit data to a different associated remote device e.g. personal computer and or portable electronic device . In some embodiments multiple sensor devices e.g. sensor module s associated with monitored individual s and or objects may transmit data to the same associated remote device. In some embodiments multiple sensor devices e.g. sensor module s associated with monitored individual s and or objects may transmit data to an intermediate device e.g. a computer acting as a base station to receive data locally and transmit such data to one or more external devices with or without processing such data for example as described herein for re transmission to remote devices e.g. via network and or server . Such data transmission as described can occur in substantially real time e.g. during an athletic activity for real time analysis or can occur after completion of the athletic activity e.g. for post game analysis . Data transmitted can be in any form ranging from raw data sensed by sensors e.g. acceleration sensor and magnetic field sensor of sensor module or data resulting from any processing operation e.g. such identifying determining calculating or storing as described herein . Any processing of the data as described herein can take place at any device that receives data transmission as described.

Individuals participating in an athletic activity and trainers e.g. a coach physician or other authorized individual may work together during a session of athletic activity for a variety of reasons. For example it may be desired that the trainer monitors the performance of the individuals and makes recommendations or otherwise influences their performance in order to maximize the individuals fitness level. Alternatively or additionally it may be desired that the trainer monitors and influences the individuals to help maximize the effectiveness of the individuals in the athletic activity. Further it may be desired that the trainer monitors and influences the individuals to help maximize the probability of success in the athletic activity where success may be for example defeating an opposing team in a game such as for example soccer or achieving maintaining a desired level of fitness for one or more individuals participating in the athletic activity . A session of athletic activity may include for example a training session e.g. a field session a gym session a track session or a competitive session e.g. a soccer match or a basketball game 

In some exemplary embodiments the trainer may monitor and influence the individuals in order to track and maintain the individuals health and safety. In such an embodiment it may be beneficial for the trainer to be provided with information relating to health and safety for example injuries illnesses and dangerous conditions.

The trainer must consider these and other goals monitor the individuals and make decisions to influence the performance of the individuals both individually and as a group. In doing so the trainer depends on information about the individuals and their performance while participating in a session of athletic activity. The trainer may benefit from receipt of information in addition to that which is directly observable by the trainer. A group monitoring system according to an exemplary embodiment of the present invention can provide the trainer with easy to understand information about individuals participating in the athletic activity beyond that which can be directly observed thereby facilitating quick and effective decision making by the trainer to maximize the probability of achieving success in the athletic activity. Detailed player profiles with performance metrics over time can be generated and maintained. By using information provided by the group monitoring system trainers can view trends over time which can help identify for example unfit athletes athletes who are over training and athletes having relatively high risk for injury. Special training programs can be planned to address these conditions enabling peak performance e.g. at game time .

Conventionally a trainer would plan a session of athletic activity hoping to deliver a certain workload e.g. represented by target values for one or more metrics to a team or to particular individuals or subsets thereof but would not have a reliable way to measure if the intended workload was actually delivered. With a group monitoring system according to embodiments of the present invention a trainer now can determine whether the intended workload was actually delivered e.g. by direct measurement of one or more metrics indicating or providing the basis for a determination of total workload . This enables the trainer to more precisely plan and adapt sessions of athletic activity by basing such planning and adapting on measured values representing individual or team performance. Such a group monitoring system may provide feedback that the trainer can act on to revise training as needed. In an exemplary embodiment the group monitoring system can provide alerts to the trainer to flag critical or important conditions that the trainer would not otherwise be able to observe directly such as for example fatigue of an individual or heart rate of an individual being above a threshold value.

In an exemplary embodiment group monitoring system depicted in for example includes individual monitors see an object monitor a base station and at least one group monitoring device see . Individual monitor may be coupled to an individual as shown in . Object monitor may be coupled to a sports object as shown in . Individual may be for example a participant in an athletic activity e.g. a player a referee or a support person such as a ball boy golf caddy or line man . Sports object may be for example a sports object for example any type of sport ball any type of sport stick e.g. a baseball bat hockey stick golf club table tennis paddle or tennis racquet a sport glove e.g. a boxing glove a bicycle an oar a shoe a boot a ski a hat a helmet a band a skateboard a surfboard or a pair of glasses or goggles used by an individual e.g. individual during an athletic activity. In certain embodiments one or more individuals and or one or more sports objects can be monitored. Individual monitor and or object monitor may include or be in communication with a variety of sensors including but not limited to an accelerometer a pedometer a heart rate monitor a position sensor an impact sensor a camera a magnetometer a gyroscope a microphone a temperature sensor a pressure sensor a respiration sensor a posture sensor a lactate sensor and a wind sensor. Group monitoring system can include any or all of these or other sensors eliminating the need for separate systems to monitor different characteristics. Further by integrating and processing data streams from multiple different sensors group monitoring system can determine and provide metrics based on data representing different monitored characteristics. This eliminates the need to manually combine data streams to determine metrics based on multiple data streams e.g. to determine high level training insights .

In an exemplary embodiment individual monitor may include a sensor garment a heart rate monitor a position sensor an acceleration sensor or any other sensor e.g. a magnetometer . In an exemplary embodiment object monitor may include a position sensor an acceleration sensor and a magnetometer. Position sensor may include for example a position sensor for use with a satellite based positioning system e.g. GPS global positioning system a position sensor for use with a beacon system e.g. position determination using triangulation and or time differences of signals received by antennas at known positions about a field or activity area or a position sensor for use with any other suitable position determining system. In certain embodiments position sensor can be the same device as the magnetometer.

In some exemplary embodiments group monitoring device may be used by a trainer as shown in . In an exemplary embodiment group monitoring system and or components thereof e.g. individual monitor object monitor may include or be used with elements of another monitoring system such as for example those disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 467 944 filed May 18 2009 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 467 948 filed May 18 2009 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 077 494 filed Mar. 31 2011 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 077 520 filed Mar. 31 2011 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 077 510 filed Mar. 31 2011 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 446 937 filed Apr. 13 2012 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 446 982 filed Apr. 13 2012 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 446 986 filed Apr. 13 2012 whose disclosures are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.

Generally sensors are mounted to individuals in preparation for participation by individuals in a session of athletic activity. Sensors mounted to a particular individual are coupled either via wires or wirelessly to individual monitor also mounted on the particular individual . Sensors in communication with an individual s individual monitor may sense characteristics about individual during participation by individual in the session of athletic activity and may transmit data indicative of the characteristics to individual monitor . Individual monitor in turn may transmit the data to base station during or after the session of athletic activity.

Sensors in communication with an object s object monitor may sense characteristics about object for example while object is used e.g. by individual during the session of athletic activity and may transmit data indicative of the characteristics to object monitor . Object monitor in turn may transmit the data to base station during or after the session of athletic activity.

In some embodiments a first individual monitor may transmit data indicative of characteristics about its monitored individual to a second monitor e.g. an individual monitor monitoring a different individual or an object monitor monitoring a sports object . In some embodiments a first object monitor may transmit data indicative of characteristics about its monitored object to a second monitor e.g. an individual monitor monitoring an individual or a second object monitor monitoring a different sports object . Such communication among monitors may be wireless according to any suitable protocol. For example such communication may be based on RFID radio frequency identification signals magnetic signals WLAN wireless local area network signals ISM industrial scientific and medical band signals Bluetooth or Bluetooth Low Energy BTLE signals or cellular signals.

Such communication among monitors may facilitate determinations and calculations based on data from more than one source. For example if two monitored individuals kick a sports object e.g. a ball object monitor of sports object can receive data from each of the individual monitors of the individuals . Such data can be compared with data from the object monitor of sports object and can be used to determine e.g. at sports object base station or an accessing device which of the two individuals kicked sports object first. Also for example if a monitored individual kicks a sports object e.g. a ball individual monitor of individual can receive data from object monitor of sports object indicating the force with or speed at which the sports object was kicked or the resulting speed direction of motion or predicted landing location of the sports object due to the kick. Such data may be sensed by a pressure sensor of the sports object and transmitted wirelessly to the individual monitor of the monitored individual . Such data can be compared with data from the individual monitor and can be used to determine characteristics of the kick of individual . In some embodiments based on such data group monitoring system may provide a recommendation as to how individual may improve his or her kick e.g. to achieve greater distance speed height .

In some exemplary embodiments some or all of transmissions of data among system components of group monitoring system may occur in real time. Real time as used herein may include delays inherent to transmission technology delays designed to optimize resources and other inherent or desirable delays that would be apparent to one of skill in the art. In some exemplary embodiments some or all of these transmissions may be delayed from real time or may occur after completion of the activity. Base station receives the data and determines metrics from the data where the metrics may be representations of the characteristics measured by sensors or may be representations of further characteristics derived from the data through the use of algorithms and other data manipulation techniques. Metrics may be based on data from individual monitors only from object monitors only or from both individual monitors and object monitors . Base station in turn transmits the metrics during the session of athletic activity to group monitoring device which receives the metrics and displays a representation of the metrics.

Group monitoring device may receive metrics associated with a plurality of individuals and or one or more objects and may display the received metrics in association with the individual and or object with which they are associated. In this way trainer viewing group monitoring device during the session of athletic activity receives detailed information about multiple individuals and or object s and can act on that information as it is determined necessary or expedient thereby efficiently monitoring and managing individuals during the session of athletic activity.

Display of the metrics can represent real time summaries of individuals or groups thereof and can facilitate comparison of one or more individuals or groups thereof with one or more other individuals or groups thereof or comparison of one or more individuals or groups thereof from a first time with one or more individuals or groups thereof from a second time.

In some exemplary embodiments individual monitors and or object monitors calculate metrics based on the data e.g. data generated by sensors and transfer these metrics to base station along with or instead of the data. In some exemplary embodiments base station transmits the data to group monitoring device along with or instead of the metrics. In some exemplary embodiments group monitoring device calculates metrics based on the data.

Elements of individual monitor or object monitor may interconnect with one another using a variety of techniques such as for example wires printed circuit boards conductive yarn conductive fabric printed conductive layers on fabric a printed wire harness wireless communications technology serial ports serial peripheral interfaces other connection techniques or a combination thereof. Each monitor is portable with respect to base station . In some embodiments each individual monitor can be carried by an individual participating in an athletic activity. Each monitor may itself include sensors and or may be in communication with sensors carried by individual and or sports object and located remotely from monitor . Each monitor can be paired with base station and associated with an individual and or sports object . Each monitor may include a unique identifier. The unique identifier may be represented by for example a number imprinted on a viewable surface of individual monitor and or object monitor or an article associated therewith such as for example a garment or sports object or data communicated or displayed when a button associated with individual monitor and or object monitor is pressed or when a request signal is received from base station .

In an exemplary embodiment individual monitor is a pod like device and includes a position module for determining data indicative of the location of individual monitor and thus the location of individual carrying individual monitor a heart rate monitor module for determining data indicative of the heart rate of individual a three axis acceleration sensor module for determining data indicative of the acceleration of individual a gyroscope module for determining data indicative of the orientation of individual with respect to for example a playing field and or base station and a magnetometer module for measuring local magnetic field data and calibrating body motion data determined by the gyroscope module and acceleration sensor module. Such a pod like device can be carried by individual for example in a shirt shoe or other apparel or equipment worn by individual . In some embodiments individual monitor may be a near field communication NFC device e.g. a radio frequency identification RFID tag or any active or passive communication device.

Similarly in an exemplary embodiment object monitor is a device that includes a position module for determining data indicative of the location of object monitor and thus the location of sports object carrying object monitor a heart rate monitor module for determining data indicative of the heart rate of an individual e.g. individual interacting with sports object e.g. gripping or otherwise holding sports object such that a heart rate sensor of object monitor can sense a pulse of the individual a three axis acceleration sensor module for determining data indicative of the acceleration of sports object a gyroscope module for determining data indicative of the orientation of sports object with respect to for example a playing field and or base station and a magnetometer module for measuring local magnetic field data and calibrating motion data determined by the gyroscope module and acceleration sensor module. In some embodiments object monitor is a pod like device which may be configured for attachment to a sports object e.g. coupled to a racquet or bat upon an external surface thereof . In some embodiments object monitor is a chip integrated within a sports object e.g. coupled to a ball beneath the exterior surface thereof . In some embodiments object monitor may be a near field communication NFC device e.g. a radio frequency identification RFID tag or any active or passive communication device.

Additionally the acceleration sensor module can be used in conjunction with the magnetometer module and gyroscope module in order to calibrate motion and position determinations. For example information indicative of impact change in motion gravity and change in direction can be obtained using the acceleration sensor module. Angular movement can be obtained using the gyroscope module and the absolute North orientation or local magnetic field data such as magnetic field intensity and or direction can be obtained using the magnetometer module. These sensor readings can be used to determine for example the posture of an individual gravity position and orientation of individual and or object in space and heading of individual and or object .

Base station may be a self contained portable system containing all hardware required or desired to perform the functions of base station described herein. In some exemplary embodiments base station weighs no more than 25 kilograms. In some exemplary embodiments base station is sized so as to fit easily into the trunk of a car or the overhead storage area of a passenger aircraft. In some exemplary embodiments base station includes a pair of wheels at one end and a handle at the other end to facilitate mobility of base station . In some exemplary embodiments base station is waterproof and can withstand impacts associated with regular use and transport. In some exemplary embodiments base station is contained within a hard shell style case. In some exemplary embodiments base station is contained within a soft duffel bag style case.

In some exemplary embodiments base station is configured to be portable. In some exemplary embodiments base station is configured to be positioned at an activity site. In some exemplary embodiments base station is configured to be movable between activity sites such that it can be positioned at various activity sites. In some exemplary embodiments base station is configured to be portable with respect to at least one of individual monitors object monitors and group monitoring device . In some exemplary embodiments base station is configured to be portable with respect to each of individual monitors object monitors and group monitoring device .

In some exemplary embodiments base station itself includes sensors such as for example a GPS sensor or other position sensor a gyroscope a magnetometer a temperature sensor a humidity sensor and or a wind sensor. Such sensors can provide valuable data that can be used in algorithms to determine metrics associated with individuals and or sports objects as will be described below.

In some exemplary embodiments base station includes a reference sensor e.g. a GPS reference sensor which may be physically included within base station or independent of and located remote from base station at a known position with respect thereto. The reference sensor can be connected to base station via wires or wirelessly. The reference sensor can be used to detect a deviation signal and use it to calculate a correction signal for received position signals e.g. GPS data . This correction signal can be sent to monitors e.g. via base station . This correction signal can be used to correct position determinations of monitors thereby increasing their accuracy. Determining such a correction signal and then sending it to monitors achieves efficient use of processing capacity because monitors are not burdened with determining a correction signal themselves but simply receive and use a correction signal determined at base station or the reference sensor.

Base station may transmit and receive data from monitors via an antenna configured for one or more of RF communication WLAN communication ISM communication cellular e.g. GSM broad band 2.5G or 3G communication other suitable communication or a combination thereof. Communication between base station and monitors may be bi directional or uni directional. The antenna may be a high gain antenna and in some exemplary embodiments base station includes multiple e.g. 2 such antennas. In some exemplary embodiments base station includes an antenna configured to send and or receive a positioning signal such as that of a satellite based positioning system e.g. GPS . Base station can then determine metrics from the received data. Base station can include a data reception module a data processing module a central synchronization sync module a logic module a web server module and a base station database.

As described above base station receives data from monitors . The data reception module of base station may be in communication with each active monitor . In some exemplary embodiments the data reception module receives data from monitors via the antenna in communication with monitors through the RF link described above. The data reception module writes the received data to a data file which may be for example a comma separated values file or a tab delimited file. The file may be for example a single file used to write the data to or a rolling file file roll based on for example time number of entries or size. The data file may be updated using any suitable interval and parameters. For example 30 monitors may be active and updating 5 data points at 2 Hz in order to update the data file in near real time.

The data reception module may perform a data integrity check on the received data. In some exemplary embodiments the data reception module decrypts the received data. In some exemplary embodiments the data reception module is agnostic to the received data and does not decrypt the received data. In some exemplary embodiments the data reception module buffers content as needed.

The data reception module may include a data read module that reads the data from the data file and transmits it to data processing module. The data read module may run at any suitable interval such as for example 500 ms milliseconds to read the change in the data written to the data file.

Prior to monitors being used during a session of athletic activity each monitor may be connected to base station e.g. by docking in docking port or wirelessly and may be assigned an encryption key by the data processing module. Monitors can use this encryption key to securely transmit data to the data reception module. The data processing module receives data from the data reception module as described above and de crypts the data if encrypted by using the unique encryption key assigned to a particular monitor . The data processing module transmits the decrypted data to the base station database for storage.

The base station database is preferably configured for short term storage of data generated during sessions of athletic activity while long term storage is accomplished by a web server system. The base station database may include sufficient storage space for at least all data expected to be generated in 1 session of the athletic activity. In some exemplary embodiments the base station database includes sufficient storage space for at least all data expected to be generated in 3 sessions of the athletic activity e.g. greater than approximately 2 gigabytes . In some exemplary embodiments the base station database is configured for long term storage and includes sufficient storage space for example for at least all data expected to be generated in 10 years of use monitoring athletic activities e.g. greater than approximately 600 gigabytes .

In some exemplary embodiments group monitoring device includes a display and an input as shown for example in . In a preferred embodiment group monitoring device is a tablet computing style device such as a tablet personal computer or an iPad marketed by Apple Inc. . Group monitoring device may be however any other suitable device such as for example a laptop computer a smartphone a personal computer a mobile phone an e reader a PDA personal digital assistant a smartphone a wristwatch device a display integrated into a garment e.g. into a sleeve or arm band or other similar device capable of receiving and displaying information and receiving input. In some embodiments group monitoring system includes a plurality of group monitoring devices which may be carried by individuals e.g. during participation in a monitored athletic activity . For simplicity and clarity of explanation group monitoring device is herein described primarily as used by trainer . Group monitoring device may be used similarly however by any person including individuals .

In some exemplary embodiments during a session of athletic activity trainer may use group monitoring device to receive real time information about individuals and or sports objects . This information may enable trainer to more easily accomplish a variety of goals. In the case that the athletic activity is a fitness exercise trainer can leverage real time data received about the fatigue of particular individuals or groups of individuals in order to for example inform data driven real time decisions that optimize the performance of individuals and reduce the potential for injury. For example trainer may modify a current session of athletic activity e.g. shorten extend pause end or change the schedule of activity for the session based on the information received from group monitoring device . Trainer may modify the session for particular individuals or for groups of individuals . In the case that a present session of athletic activity has been scheduled using a plan module of monitoring device as described further herein the planned schedule can be changed in real time to correspond to decisions of trainer . Similarly in the case that the athletic activity is a competition e.g. a soccer game trainer can leverage real time data received about the performance of particular individuals and or sports objects or groups of individuals and or sports objects in order to for example inform data driven real time decisions that optimize the chance for success in the competition. In an exemplary embodiment group monitoring device can be used to monitor a single individual and or sports object alone as well as a group of individuals and or sports objects .

In some exemplary embodiments group monitoring device may be used by broadcasters of an athletic activity in order to for example determine and relay to their audience information about individuals participating in the athletic activity and or sports objects being used for the athletic activity.

Display functions to display representations of individual monitors individuals object monitors and or sports objects including for example identification information attributes metrics and alerts during participation in a session of athletic activity by individuals and or sports objects . The representations can take many forms including for example charts dashboards graphs maps colors symbols text images and icons.

Various representations capable of being displayed by display are described in detail herein. For simplicity and clarity of explanation many of the representations are described with reference to individuals and may not refer to sports objects . Information relating to one or more sports objects may be displayed in any of these representations or in formats similar to any of these representations similarly as described for individuals . Information including metrics relating to such sports objects may be displayed separately from information relating to individuals or may be displayed together with information relating to individuals . Displayed information relating to sports objects may be of the same or a different type e.g. a different metric than that displayed for individuals whether displayed separately or together.

Input is an interface that allows a user such as trainer to manipulate the representations displayed by display . In a preferred embodiment input is a touch screen input. Input may be however any other suitable input such as for example a keyboard a voice recognition audio input or push button inputs. Input may further include a combination of various types of inputs. Input may be manipulated by trainer to cause display to show desired representations. The representations can update in real time during the athletic activity through the communication of group monitoring device with base station which is in turn in communication with individual monitors worn by individuals participating in the athletic activity and or object monitors carried by sports objects used for the athletic activity as described above.

A remote device analysis device is depicted in and includes a display and an input . In an exemplary embodiment analysis device is a tablet computing style device such as a tablet personal computer or an iPad marketed by Apple Inc. . Analysis device may be however any other suitable device such as for example a laptop computer a smartphone or a personal computer. Analysis device can access data in web server database and display the information to a user of analysis device e.g. trainer . In some embodiments the information may be displayed using dedicated or general purpose software e.g. a dedicated software interface a web browser . Although analysis device and group monitoring device are described separately herein in some exemplary embodiments group monitoring device and analysis device are the same device.

In some exemplary embodiments analysis device can be located at a remote location with respect to base station or the relevant athletic activity and can be used to access and display data and metrics in real time. In such an embodiment base station can transfer the data and metrics to a web server in real time so that the data and metrics can be accessed for display by analysis device as described above. Such an embodiment may be useful for a user to monitor an ongoing session of athletic activity from a remote location e.g. a trainer that could not be present at a match or a team owner that desires to monitor a training session without physically attending the session .

In some embodiments individual monitor and or object monitor each includes a position module for determining data indicative of the location of individual monitor and or object monitor and thus the location of individual carrying individual monitor and or sports object carrying object monitor . In some embodiments display of group monitoring device depicts the location of individuals and or sports objects based on the data indicative of the location of individual monitor and or object monitor .

In some embodiments such depiction of the location of individuals and or sports objects may be in the form of a graphical representation such as for example a map e.g. a map of the playing field on which individuals and or objects are located showing the locations of individuals and or objects in relation to features of the playing field such as for example boundary lines and goals . For example individuals and a sports object on a playing field can be shown where individuals are represented by their identifying numbers. Depiction of individuals and or sports object with respect to features of the playing field can be helpful to a viewer of display e.g. a referee or official charged with overseeing the athletic activity to monitor the activity e.g. to determine whether an individual traveled outside a boundary line or whether a ball entered a goal zone .

In some embodiments display of group monitoring device depicts the present locations of individuals and or sports objects . In some embodiments display of group monitoring device depicts past locations of individuals and or sports objects e.g. replays display of the locations . In some embodiments display of group monitoring device depicts the past locations during the athletic activity. In some embodiments display of group monitoring device depicts the past locations after the athletic activity.

In some exemplary embodiments display of group monitoring device depicts locations of individuals and or sports objects simultaneously with orientations of individuals and or sports objects .

In some exemplary embodiments display of group monitoring device displays recommendations based on metrics. For example display may display a recommendation based on location information of one or more individuals e.g. based on location information showing a concentration of individuals in one area display may display a recommendation that individuals spread out over the playing field . Such recommendations can be tailored as desired e.g. to a particular situation type of game to play against a particular opposing team or player to a particular situation .

In some exemplary embodiments display of group monitoring device can display one or more alerts based on location information of one or more individuals and or sports objects . An alert may be triggered based on a determination that location s of one or more individuals and or sports object meet an alert condition. For example an alert may be triggered in response to a location of an individual being greater than a threshold distance from a target position where the target position may be defined relative to for example a playing field or feature thereof another individual or a sports object . Also for example an alert may be triggered based on a determination that there are no individuals within a threshold distance of a goal e.g. the goal area is unguarded . Also for example an alert may be triggered based on a determination an individual has crossed a boundary line e.g. stepped out of bounds . Also for example an alert may be triggered based on a determination that sports object is within a goal area e.g. a goal has been scored . Also for example an alert may be triggered based on the character of movement of an individual s location e.g. rapid alternating between faster and slower movement of an individual may trigger an alert indicating that individual is limping and may be injured minimal movement combined with orientation data showing individual is prone or supine may trigger an alert indicating that individual has fallen and may be injured . Display may display representations of such alerts as described herein. In some embodiments a representation of an individual to whom an active alert applies may be displayed in a different color when the alert applies than when the alert doesn t apply. In some embodiments such an alert may itself include specific coaching advice based on the alert. For example an alert indicating that an individual is greater than a threshold distance from a target position may be accompanied by a recommendation for the individual to move closer to the target position. Also for example an alert indicating that there are no individuals within a threshold distance of a particular area i.e. there is a gap in field coverage may be accompanied by a recommendation for one or more individuals to move closer to the particular area e.g. to eliminate or reduce the size of the gap .

Also for example an alert may be triggered based on locations of multiple individuals and or sports objects . For example an alert may be triggered where a first individual is within a threshold distance from a sports object e.g. the first individual may be handling the ball and wherein a second individual is greater than a threshold distance from any opposing individual . The alert may provide notification e.g. to trainer first individual that the second individual is unguarded which may be useful e.g. to trainer first individual to prompt consideration of whether first individual should pass the ball to second individual . In some embodiments such an alert may itself include a recommendation for a strategic play or for a modification to a current strategy e.g. a calculated best play or a new target location for one or more individuals given the known metrics including location information . For example the alert may provide a recommendation that the ball be passed from the first individual to the second individual . Such alerts can be defined and tailored to any desired game situation in order to facilitate analysis and speed decision making during an athletic activity.

In some embodiments display of group monitoring device depicts the path of one or more individuals or sports objects . The path may be a curve tracing past locations of the one or more individuals or sports objects on a map of the playing field. The displayed path may be static i.e. displaying the curve for a period of time with a defined beginning and end or dynamic e.g. displaying the curve for a period of time where either or both of the beginning and end is dependent on for example the current time . In depicting the path of one or more individuals or sports objects display may show the position of the one or more individuals or sports objects as a function of time.

As shown for example in group monitoring system can include a combination of the components described above. Sensors attached to multiple individual monitors and object monitors can provide data to base station . In certain embodiments other information can be provided to base station for example video or images from camera system . Data generated by camera monitoring system can be received by base station and analyzed to determine positions of individuals and or other objects areas of interest e.g. sports objects . Base station can provide all of this information to group monitoring device to be displayed on display .

In some exemplary embodiments as depicted in for example display includes a heat map which may provide a visual indication of time spent by one or more individual in areas of the playing field. Such visual indication may include colored areas of a representation of the playing field that correspond to areas where individual has spent more time colored differently than colored areas of the representation of the playing field that correspond to areas where individual has spent less time. In some embodiments see e.g. heat map may represent a single individual . In some embodiments see e.g. heat map may represent multiple individuals where visual indications of time spent by different individuals are represented by different colors or where individuals on one team are represented by the same color while individuals from an opposing team are represented by a different color. In some embodiments heat map may represent one or more sports objects similarly as described with respect to individuals . In some embodiments where individual is wearing a garment having an illuminable area the illuminable area may illuminate in a color corresponding to the color used to represent individual on display e.g. on heat map .

Alternatively or additionally heat map may provide a visual indication of for example areas of the playing field where player performed a certain type of activity e.g. running jumping areas of the playing field where player had a metric value above or below a threshold value or areas of the playing field where player had possession of or contact with a sports object e.g. a ball . In some embodiments heat map may provide a visual indication of for example optimum positioning of one or more players the playing field.

In some embodiments display of group monitoring device depicts the location of an individual or sports object with respect to some other feature which may be for example another individual or sports object or a point on the playing field . Such depiction can take the form of a distance measurement between i.e. magnitude of separation of the individual or sports object and the other feature which may be represented for example as a history of the separation e.g. a graph showing time v. separation or as an integral map e.g. a histogram of the separation over a set period.

The various depictions of locations of individuals and or sports objects can help a viewer e.g. trainer individual to analyze plays made during a session of athletic activity. For example the depictions may be useful in facilitating tactical training or strategy development by facilitating design and monitoring of pre planned plays or the analysis of successful or failed plays to seek areas for improvement. Also for example the depictions may be useful to determine the extent of separation between two individuals with the same role on a team e.g. two fullbacks to optimize their coverage of the playing field e.g. to ensure that the two fullbacks maintained at least a threshold separation during a game in order to ensure that areas of the field were not left undefended . Also for example the depictions may be useful to analyze the effect of positioning of individuals on game events including the outcome of the game e.g. the distance and frequency with which a fullback strayed from the corner of the penalty box or the distances between the two fullbacks and the goalkeeper can be analyzed at key points like when a goal against has been scored to help identify and improve sub optimal positioning and to help prevent future goals against from being scored . Also for example the depictions may be useful to determine possession or change thereof e.g. a successful pass of a sports object e.g. ball by an individual e.g. by identifying separation between the individual and sports object below a threshold distance for a threshold period of time .

In some embodiments image data generated by a camera monitoring system can be overlaid or identified with data and metrics described herein. In such an embodiment the image data may be displayed synchronously with the data and metrics by or in conjunction with a display device e.g. group monitoring device or analysis device . This can help correlate data and metrics with actual images of individuals and or sports objects .

In some embodiments as described above one or more metrics may be based on a determination of position of individual and or sports object with respect to a playing field or feature thereof. For example in some embodiments location signals e.g. signals generated by position modules are correlated with positions on playing field using previously mapped magnetic field data where the magnetic field data of the playing field are known by group monitoring system . Also for example in some embodiments location signals are correlated with positions on playing field using relative location data e.g. data representing a relative location with respect to a reference which may be for example base station or some other stationary beacon connected thereto where the relative position of the playing field is known by group monitoring system . In some embodiments the position of the playing field becomes known to group monitoring system by being defined by a user.

In some embodiments a portable system component e.g. an individual monitor an object monitor or group monitoring device can be used to define the playing field which may be for example a soccer field a racing track or other area . For example in a field definition mode display of group monitoring device or other administrative device may display an instruction to locate a position sensor at a first location on a playing field. For example as shown in display may instruct a user to locate a position sensor which could be a magnetic field sensor at a mid line location of a soccer field. Display may display a graphical representation of the playing field with an instruction marker showing the user the location at which to position the sensor. The user may position the group monitoring device at the location on the playing field corresponding to the displayed location and may optionally provide input through input of group monitoring device to indicate that the group monitoring device is positioned at the instructed location. Alternatively or additionally in some embodiments the user of group monitoring device may direct an associated other portable device e.g. an individual monitor or object monitor carried by another person communicatively connected to the group monitoring device to the location on the playing field corresponding to the displayed location and may optionally provide input through input of group monitoring device to indicate that the associated other portable device is positioned at the instructed location. Group monitoring device may then receive position data identifying the location of the position sensor and may define this position data as corresponding to the instructed location. As noted such position data may be determined based on a comparison of previously mapped magnetic field data with measured magnetic field data or data representing relative location with respect to a reference.

Display of group monitoring device may then display an instruction to locate the position sensor which could be a magnetic field sensor at additional locations on the playing field which can be defined similarly as described for the first. For example as shown in display may depict a confirmation marker showing that the first point has been defined and may show an instruction marker showing the user a second location to be defined e.g. a first corner of a soccer field . Display of group monitoring device may continue to show additional instructions to define additional locations on the playing field see e.g. showing four confirmation markers indicating four defined positions and one instruction marker indicating a final position to be defined . The positions of the various defined locations may together define the playing field.

Group monitoring system may be applied as described to define any playing field or other area whether regular or irregular in shape. For example group monitoring system can be used to define a soccer field tennis court running track football field basketball court baseball field golf course ski slope or mountain bike track. The number of positions needed to fully define a playing field may vary and may depend on the geometry of the playing field to be defined. For example a typical soccer field or other symmetrical rectangular shaped field can be considered fully defined with a minimum of three positions defined e.g. three corners where the fourth corner can be determined based on the location of the defined three corners . The minimum positions needed to fully define a playing field may increase with increasing geometric complexity of the field shape as well as the extent and geometric complexity of field features to be defined. In some cases defining some field features may be optional or may be determined by group monitoring system based on known relationships with defined positions.

For example defining a baseball field or golf course may involve defining a greater number of positions than does defining a soccer field or tennis court. For example when defining a baseball field it may be desired to define its field of play which is often irregular and can vary from field to field its foul lines its base positions its warning track and its boundary between infield and outfield. When defining a soccer field or tennis court simply defining three corners of the field or court may be sufficient for group monitoring system to determine remaining field features. Group monitoring system may instruct definition of the minimum positions needed or of more than the minimum positions needed including optional positions . Defining more than the minimum number of positions needed may increase the accuracy of the field definition. Further group monitoring system may instruct definition of the same position once or more than once. Defining the same position more than once may increase the accuracy of the definition of that position thereby increasing the accuracy of the field definition.

Once defined or otherwise obtained a playing field may be saved in a storage medium of any system component e.g. group monitoring device base station web server system . Attributes of the defined field may be saved in association therewith. For example a field save screen is depicted on display of group monitoring device in . The field save screen includes fields for a user to input a field name the field dimensions the field location the field playing surface and any desired notes about the field. In some embodiments certain field attributes may be determined by group monitoring system e.g. via a system component such as for example group monitoring device . For example once a field is defined group monitoring system may calculate its dimensions or location e.g. using magnetic field data .

As described above group monitoring system is portable so it can be transported between and used at different areas during different sessions of athletic activity. The ability of group monitoring system to define a new playing field and monitor activity thereon facilitates this portability. For example the same group monitoring system can be used to monitor training sessions at a team s training facility at the team s home playing field and at the playing fields of opposing teams visited by the team on the road. Each different field can be defined as described above. This facilitates use of group monitoring system across different playing fields and gives trainers the ability to keep a consistent repeatable set of measurements even when sessions of athletic activity occur at different locations e.g. over the course of a season . Many conventional monitoring technologies require fixed installations which prevents trainers from collecting data or requires them to use different technologies during a session of athletic activity away from their installation e.g. when they are traveling .

In some embodiments once group monitoring system receives signals from individual monitors or object monitors monitoring individuals or sports objects in motion on the defined playing field group monitoring system may determine the type of playing surface of the defined field based on the character of motion signals received from the individual monitors or object monitors . For example an object monitor monitoring a sports object traveling toward the ground at a given speed may sense different impact characteristics for the sports object upon its striking the ground depending on the type of field and may determine the type of field based on these characteristics. For example a duration of impact may be shorter and bounce height may be higher for a hard surfaced playing field e.g. clay hardwood or asphalt than for a soft surfaced playing field e.g. grass sand . Also for example an individual monitor monitoring an individual running on the ground may sense different impact characteristics for the footfalls of the individual depending on the type of field and may determine the type of field based on these characteristics.

In some embodiments instead of or in addition to defining a field based on a plurality of positions a playing field can be defined by lines that correspond to a path moved by a portable system component along boundaries of the playing field. The definition of such lines can be effected similarly as described above with respect to the definition of positions relative to the playing field. A line based definition technique may be beneficial for example in defining fields having complex or non standard shapes.

Saved fields may be stored and re used and may be shared or sold e.g. via a website or social networking service as described elsewhere herein . In some embodiments group monitoring system can download data representing a pre defined field e.g. via a system component such as for example group monitoring device . Data defining such pre defined fields may be available for download from for example a database or directly from another user or website. Such pre defined fields may have been defined previously by for example a user of the same or a different group monitoring system or of any other suitable system e.g. a position recording or surveying system . In some embodiments group monitoring system can provide an interface to search for data representing a particular pre defined field e.g. via group monitoring device or may suggest download of data representing particular pre defined fields based on the position of one or more system components. For example if base station is determined to have coordinates proximate to those of Playing Field A where data representing Playing Field A is pre defined and available for download by group monitoring system group monitoring system may suggest such download e.g. via an interface of for example group monitoring device thereby eliminating the need to re define Playing Field A before holding a session of athletic activity thereon.

For example group monitoring system may monitor data streams representing heart rate power speed distance acceleration and position on a playing field. By combining these data streams and basing calculations on more than just a single data stream group monitoring system can determine and output representations of new insights such as for example intensity and efficiency of an individual or group thereof. Display of group monitoring device can display such representations in real time thus enabling trainers to act on these insights during a training session to ensure that they are meeting their training goals.

Also for example speed is typically used as a measure of intensity. Speed is an important part of many athletic activities. By monitoring an individual s speed a trainer can see if the individual is training at a target level e.g. a level considered to correspond to success in a game . When a trainer plans a speed training session he or she can customize a live dashboard e.g. displayed on display to view speed related data including peak speed average speed and number of high intensity sprints. The ability to manage speed training carefully can help prevent overtraining and can reduce the risk of injury.

Also for example distance covered has long been a reference for training volume. The distance an individual covers e.g. runs during a session of athletic activity e.g. a game or scrimmage can vary. A real time measure of distance covered can allow a trainer to set individual or team targets for distance and ensure that all individuals have reached the target. At the end of a session of athletic activity the trainer can refer to the live dashboard to check distance covered. Individuals that fell short of the target may be instructed to continue to run.

Also for example acceleration including deceleration can be a significant measure of performance. Acceleration can be important in sports where rapid change of direction is required. Understanding the rate and frequency of acceleration can influence a determination of overall training load.

Also for example knowledge of position on the field may allow a trainer to see where the monitored individuals are or have been on the field. This can promote insights into tactical movements of the players. As described above such positioning can be shown on a map for instance a heat map where positions are determined using a comparison of previously mapped magnetic field data with measured magnetic field data.

The principles components and systems described above can be used to determine performance information for an object located within an area for example the position of a player or sport ball located within an area designated to host athletic activities. In certain embodiments local magnetic field data can be measured and compared with previously measured and recorded magnetic field information for the area to determine the position of the object within the area.

For instance illustrates a method for determining performance information for an object located within an area according to an embodiment. In certain embodiments the area can be an indoor area for example an area designated to host athletic activities. In step magnetic field information for the area can be obtained. In certain embodiments the magnetic field information for the area can include the intensity and or direction of the magnetic field.

In certain embodiments magnetic field information can be collected to create a magnetic field data map. Magnetic field data can be measured at a plurality of locations within the area. In certain embodiments the magnetic field information for the area can be recorded during a mapping session. The mapping session can be performed manually for example by a person walking within the area and taking magnetic field data measurements with a hand held device at certain locations within the area. The mapping session can also be performed automatically for example by a robot designed to move within the area and record magnetic field data at predetermined time and or distance intervals. In certain embodiments magnetic field map data can be acquired by moving sensor module which can include magnetic field sensor through discrete positions within the area. For example sensor module can be passed through positions along a playing field in a grid like pattern and magnetic field data can be recorded for example every one meter. Any other distance or measurement increment for example every half meter or every 10 cm can also be used. Known points for example boundary lines and goals can be noted as the magnetic field information is recorded. In certain embodiments the magnetic field information can be stored for example in the memory of a computing device or in a database. The magnetic field information can be accessed at a later time to be compared with measured magnetic field data of an object within the area.

In certain embodiments mapping of the magnetic field information can be enhanced by recording the mapping session with a video camera. For example by using an overhead camera and intermittently flashing a strobe light located at sensor module the video data can be compared to the magnetic field data recorded by sensor module to define a virtual view of the area.

With continued reference to at step magnetic field data can be measured at a position of an object within the area. As described above the object can be for example an individual or piece of athletic equipment e.g. a ball and the magnetic field data can be measured and recorded by for example sensor module which can include magnetic field sensor e.g. a magnetometer . In certain embodiments sensor module can be coupled to the object. Magnetic field intensity data and or magnetic field direction data can be measured and recorded by sensor module .

At step performance information for the object can be determined based on the magnetic field information for the area and the measured magnetic field data. For example a position of the object within the area can be determined by comparing measured magnetic field data to the magnetic field information for the area and determining a matching location.

In certain embodiments as shown for example in step of measured magnetic field data can be filtered to improve the accuracy of determining the performance information for the object. illustrates a method for determining performance information for an object located within an athletic field area by obtaining magnetic field map data for an athletic field area step and measuring magnetic field data for an object located within the athletic field areas step . The measured magnetic field data can be filtered step to determine performance information for the object based on the magnetic field map data and the filtered measured magnetic field data step .

With reference to in certain embodiments performance information for the object such as the position of the object can be determined through an iterative process. After obtaining magnetic field information for the area step first magnetic field data for the object can be measured at a first position step . This first magnetic field data can be compared to the magnetic field information recorded for the area during the mapping session step . This comparison may result in determining several possible locations of the object within the area step . Thus a second measurement of magnetic field data for the object can be taken at a second position step and this data can also be compared with the magnetic field information for the area step .

As shown in step of the measured magnetic field data can then be filtered by applying constraints e.g. by using a computer algorithm to reduce the data being considered in order to determine the position of the object. The filter can include constraints such as physical space constraints for example field dimensions. The filter can also include human movement constraints for example motion dynamics extremes. Similar constraints can be applied for motion dynamics extremes of a piece of athletic equipment e.g. a ball . These constraints can be applied in order to eliminate unlikely positions of the object. For instance if two sets of magnetic field data are taken a fraction of a second apart it would be illogical to include a second position point that is 50 meters away when a human could not possibly cover that distance in the given time. Further iterations of magnetic field data measurements and filtering can be performed as necessary to further reduce the possible positions of the object within the area until the position of the object is determined with near certainty. Throughout the iterative process probability values can be assigned to each of the potential locations of the object based on a degree to which each potential location matches the constraints at each iterative step. Locations with a low probability of matching can be eliminated at each iteration reducing the number of potential locations of the object.

Once the position of the object is determined using the steps above it becomes easier to predict and determine the position of the object because movement of the object must fall within physical space and object movement constraints. The number of possible locations of the object is therefore smaller than when first determining the position of the object within the area. In certain embodiments in order to further improve the accuracy of determining the position of the object additional sensor data can be utilized in conjunction with the magnetic field data measurements. For example data from an accelerometer gyroscope infrared IR device imaging device e.g. a camera or any other suitable sensor can be utilized to help approximate the direction in which the object is moving. The possible position of the object is thus narrowed by a directional constraint therefore further increasing the accuracy of determining the position of the object within the area.

Similar to the method above illustrates a method of determining performance information for an object at certain times. At steps and first magnetic field data can be measured at a first time to determine a first position of the object at the first time. At steps and second magnetic field data can be measured at a second time to determine a second position of the object at the second time. Once the first and second positions are determined in step performance data e.g. distance traveled and speed can be determined.

As shown in the methods described above can be used in the team sports context. At step magnetic field data for a first object for example a player can be obtained e.g. using sensor module as the player moves within a field of play. At step magnetic field data for a second object for example a teammate competitor or a sport ball can be obtained as the second object moves within the area. In certain embodiments multiple objects can be monitored as they move about the area. At step the positions of both the first and second objects can be tracked within the area based on the measured magnetic field data. In certain embodiments the first and second objects can be tracked in substantially real time as they move about the area. In other embodiments the first and second objects can be tracked at a later time after they finish moving about the area for example after an elapsed time period for a team sport event. The position information can be analyzed and displayed using the systems and methods described above. For example a heat map showing the amount of time a player spent at certain locations on the field can be displayed on a monitoring device.

As shown for example in in certain embodiments performance information such as speed and distance traveled can be determined for an object located within an area. Similar to the methods above magnetic field information for the area can be obtained for example in a mapping session step . In certain situations e.g. a small basketball gymnasium magnetic field information may be sufficiently similar such that the area need not be mapped but rather associated with a similar area that has previously been mapped. Statistical analysis of the variability of the magnetic field information for the area can then be performed step . For example variations in magnetic field intensity and or direction over a given distance between adjacent points can be determined. In certain embodiments a statistical distribution of the variability of magnetic field intensities and or direction can be determined for the area. The variability of the magnetic field data can then be measured as an object moves within the area step in order to determine performance information for the object based on the variability of the magnetic field data step .

The solid lines in can indicate sample unit distance movements e.g. 1 meter within the area. While moving along one of these unit distances a sensor can record the fluctuations in the magnetic field intensity which can be characterized by local maxima peaks as illustrated by the graphical representation in . Multiple samples can be recorded in order to determine an average distribution of magnetic field intensity and or fluctuations in magnetic field intensity for the area as illustrated by the graphical representation in . A comparison to the average distribution can then be used to determine the movement of an object over an unknown distance within the area. As the object moves within the area a sensor can record the magnetic field intensity and or fluctuations in magnetic field intensity and determine a distribution as illustrated for example by the graphical representation in . For the example shown in the count values for the occurrences of various magnetic field intensity measurements that make up the distribution are approximately half of the count values for the average distribution shown in . Therefore it can be determined that the object moved approximately half of the unit distance i.e. 0.5 meters . When combined with timing information the speed at which the object moves within the area can also be determined.

The foregoing description of the specific embodiments of the present invention described with reference to the figures will so fully reveal the general nature of the invention that others can by applying knowledge within the skill of the art readily modify and or adapt for various applications such specific embodiments without undue experimentation without departing from the general concept of the present invention.

While various embodiments of the present invention have been described above they have been presented by way of example only and not limitation. It should be apparent that adaptations and modifications are intended to be within the meaning and range of equivalents of the disclosed embodiments based on the teaching and guidance presented herein. It therefore will be apparent to one skilled in the art that various changes in form and detail can be made to the embodiments disclosed herein without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention. The elements of the embodiments presented above are not necessarily mutually exclusive but may be interchanged to meet various needs as would be appreciated by one of skill in the art.

It is to be understood that the phraseology or terminology used herein is for the purpose of description and not of limitation. The breadth and scope of the present invention should not be limited by any of the above described exemplary embodiments but should be defined only in accordance with the following claims and their equivalents.

