---

title: Apparatus and method for a symmetric sequential entangler of periodic photons in a single input and output mode
abstract: An apparatus providing an integrated waveguide device that creates entanglement between a symmetrical sequence of periodically spaced (in time) photons in a single input and output mode. The invention comprises a polarization maintaining integrated waveguide chip containing a number of delay lines, integrated multimode interferometers with the potential for rapid switching, a polarization controller and off chip computer logic and timing.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09146441&OS=09146441&RS=09146441
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Air Force
number: 09146441
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130910
---
This patent application claims the priority benefit of the filing date of provisional application Ser. No. 61 857 710 having been filed in the United States Patent and Trademark Office on Jul. 24 2013 and now incorporated by reference herein.

The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalty thereon.

A cluster state can be loosely defined as an entangled set of qubits arranged in a lattice. Breigel and Raussendorf strictly define a cluster state as Let each lattice site be specified by a d tuple of positive or negative integers a Z. Each sight has 2 d neighboring sites. If occupied they interact with the qubit a . This implies a cluster state has interaction between all nearest neighbor qubits. In one dimension d 1 this results in a linear chain of qubits of arbitrary length with each qubit entangled with both of its nearest neighbors. All of the internal qubits will have two interactions while the edge qubits will have one. Such a one dimensional nearest neighbor cluster state has been shown to be amenable to several applications for computation presuming the cluster state is long enough .

Traditional generation of a cluster state consists of an optical table several meters on each side. On this table is a high power laser system such as a pulsed Ti Sapphire laser. The pump beam is incident on a nonlinear material such as BBO BiBO or PPKTP etc. The photons from the pump then have a small chance to undergo industry standard Spontaneous Nonlinear Parametric Down Conversion SPDC to create an entangled pair of photons called signal and idler photons. Alternative means of photon generation are equally valid such as but not limited to four wave mixing FWM . To create larger cluster states the pump passes through multiple nonlinear materials a cascade configuration or is reflected back onto the original material a multi pass configuration . These methods can create multiple simultaneous independent pairs of qubits. To create one large cluster state the pairs are sent through i.e. acted on by an entangling operation. Normally the industry standard two qubit entangling gate controlled phase gate CPhase or controlled Z gate CZ is used. The simplest and most efficient means of implementing the general CZ gate requires 3 bulk optical asymmetric beam splitters in a specific alignment. These operations are effectively performed in parallel with each qubit entering and exiting in its own mode. Once all the entangling operations are successfully completed the cluster state is fully constructed and an algorithm can be implemented as a sequence of single qubit rotations and measurements on each qubit in a predetermined sequence. Thus in the state of the art linear cluster states are created from simultaneously generated qubits in parallel modes rather than from sequential qubits in a single mode. This is mainly due to the spontaneous nature of single photon sources. It is impossible to predict the time between two subsequent spontaneous events.

The present invention builds upon the periodic photons source of Mower and Englund WO2013009946 A1 to create entanglement between sequential separable qubits delivered in a single mode and create a linear cluster state of sequential qubits which is output in a single mode. Such a device is of interest in and of itself for quantum computing. Applications include but are not limited to Measurement Based Quantum Computing MBQC implementation of the Deutsch Jozsa algorithm on a four qubit chain arbitrary single qubit rotations on a four qubit chain quantum key distribution quantum information quantum metrology and quantum lithography.

Briefly stated the present invention the Sequential Entangler or S.E. combines reconfigurable optical Integrated Waveguides IW with a periodic photon input to create linear cluster states in a single mode.

The present invention creates the entanglement of sequential qubits by using a unique loop back architecture that delays one photon for one period T of the sequence thus allowing for two photons to be acted on by a standard entangling element which in the present invention uses the simple polarization encoded CZ gate of Crespi et. al WO2012150568A1 . After the CZ gate one photon now entangled so which cannot be distinguished is then released and the second is looped back to coincide with the arrival of the next photon and so on. This will probabilistically produce a linear cluster state. The term probabilistically as the state of the art CZ gate has a one in nine 1 9 success rate. Thus the longer a desired cluster state is the less likely it is to be created in any one attempt. This is a result of the entangling operation and not the S.E. per say as no photonic entangling operation can be performed with unit success. The present invention will create a cluster state numerically identical to the industry standard parallel method but arranges the qubits as a periodic sequence with a constant period T in a single optical mode. Any two qubit entangling operation can be used in place of the CZ however such gates may produce different cluster states.

A sequence of periodic photons created by any means enter the integrated waveguide chip in via the input port The integrated waveguide may be made from any of a number of materials. In our preferred embodiment we will use Lithium Niobate LiNbO as the waveguide material. The input port is a polarization maintaining optical waveguide fabricated in the LiNbOchip . Polarization maintaining waveguides are required as we chose to encode our qubits in the polarization modes of each photon. Thus the resource of periodic photons must also be in a known polarization state. It is then trivial to rotate the input state polarization state to any desired state via a polarization controller . The preferred embodiment of the present invention uses integrated waveguide based polarization controllers which function via the electro optical effect. The preferred embodiment of the present invention utilizes the Pockels effect which is innate to lithium niobate. Such rotations could take place prior to the photons entering the chip but for generality and controllability we rotate the polarizations on chip. In the preferred embodiment the invention rotates the incoming photons at to the plus state equal superposition of horizontal and vertical polarization H V up to normalizations . The photons then enter the first of several multimode interferometers MMI . All such interferometers are integrated on chip and consist of a multimode slab of the waveguide material similar to that described by Soldano and Pennings J. of Lightwave Tech. Vol. 13 No. 4 1995 . The switching and coupling effect of such MMI s is depended on their geometry and the index change induced via the electro optic effect. The fabrication and operation of MMIs is well known in the state of the art. In the preferred embodiment the MMIs act as high speed spatial mode switches that route photons from a specific input mode to a specific output mode. In the preferred embodiment there are several species of MMIs such as 1 by 2 2 by 2 and 2 by 1 MMIs in terms of the number of input and output modes however it is noted that the device could be trivially redesigned with a single species of 2 2 MMI in which unused ports are bulk terminated. MMI switches input photons from mode to modes or . In other words the MMI will be controllable such that a photon entering in input mode can be deterministically routed to either waveguide or . Such MMI switches are well known in the state of the art. The control element is therefore shown as a logical connection and its setting is determined by off chip electronics . To achieve proper synchronization with the periodic input source a clock signal must be sent to the device. In the preferred embodiment the high speed electro optical effect 40 GHz is used to modify the index within each of the MMI.

Now two photons which were sequential in time are now synchronized in time on the chip . This allows for industry standard two qubit entangling operations to be implemented.

The photons now propagate along two parallel waveguides the upper waveguide and the lower waveguide . Here and below upper and lower are used only in reference to the appearance of the schematic and not to a design element. The photons in these waveguides and then enter two parallel MMIs . These MMIs effectively control whether or not the entangling operation contained in the dashed box is implemented. In the preferred embodiment of the present invention the MMIs can be set to either pass the photons to the entangling operation or to divert them around the entangling operation via bypass lines . The preferred embodiment uses bypass lines because the entangling gate chosen for our preferred embodiment is the CZ gate as described by A. Crespi WO2012150568 A1 . This is a static operation thus to turn off the interaction the photons must be routed around it. The length of the bypass lines is such that they are the same length as the paths in the CZ gate and as such synchronization is maintained. The MMIs are controlled by the off chip electronics via control lines . In the preferred embodiment this control is implemented similarly to that of 40. If the MMIs are on then both photons enter the CZ gate at the same time and may become entangled. If the switches are oft the photons remain separable after passing through the bypass lines . This operation is performed in tandem thus we refer to them as paired. Note that the CZ gate has a success rate of one in nine 1 9 and requires two vacuum modes. Should the CZ gate succeed or the photons be diverted to the bypass lines they will then each enter another MMI. The upper MMI will divert the photon into the loop back mode . The lower MMI will divert its photon into the loop back mode . The MMI and are controlled by 90 via logical control line . MMI is controlled by 90 via logical control line .

The photon in the loopback mode will be delayed in delay line . The photon in loopback mode will be delayed in delay line . The third and all subsequent photons that enter the chip in mode are rotated to the correct input polarization by 30. Delay lines and are carefully fabricated such that the photons they each hold are released at the appropriate time such that the two photons are synchronized similar to the way the first two photons were synchronized. In other words the two looped back photons again reach the pair of MMI s at the same time.

As already described the present invention features loop backs on both the upper and lower modes. This allows for shorter meander delay lines which may ease fabrication. Both MMIs as well as MMI and are preferably 2 2 MMIs. The significant additions in the present invention are the first and second loop back modes and corresponding delays . The invention operates in the following manner. The first photon in the chain is routed up by MMI then around the CZ gate by MMI and then into the upper loop back mode by MMI . The length of this path particularly the delay is fabricated such that it is a delay of exactly 1 period T of the input. The second and all subsequent photon is diverted to the lower mode. Due to delay of the first photon both photons are simultaneously incident on the paired MMIs . The device proceeds as above.

The procedure to terminate a linear cluster state at a given length is different in this instance. Given that a cluster state has been completed i.e. every CZ is successful and there are now two photons on each in MMIs and . To extract the last two photons the following steps occur. One photon is looped back via one of the loop back modes or . The other is channeled to MMI and out of the chip via mode . If there are no additional photons sent to the device then MMIs or and can channel the last photon out of the device after delay T. However if the input is an arbitrarily long sequence of photons then when the nth photon reaches MMI the n 1th photon in the sequence will also reach MMI in the other mode. After the bypass mode the two photons will be in MMI and . The nand final photon in the cluster state is diverted to MMI and out of the chip via . The other is looped back in the other currently unused loop back mode or . This allows the first chain to exit the device unperturbed and effectively resets the device as the N 1th photon will be synchronized at MMI with the arrival of the n 2nd photon. The n 2nd photon will be diverted into the other mode and the device operation repeats. Thus a second chain can be started without losing any of the input photons.

Having described preferred embodiments of the invention with reference to the accompanying drawing it is to be understood that the invention is not limited to those precise embodiments and that various changes and modifications may be effected therein by one skilled in the art without departing from the scope or spirit of the invention as defined in the appended claims.

