---

title: Methods and systems for displaying a number of sheets allowed to be saved to an external storage
abstract: An information processing system includes at least one information processing apparatus; a connecting unit configured to enable a connection with at least one device via a network; an acquiring unit configured to acquire attribute information on at least one distribution destination that is a destination of data to be distributed from the distribution destination, the distribution destination allowing a user to designate in the device; an output unit configured to output the acquired attribute information to the device via the network; and a distribution control unit configured to perform a process of distributing the data to the distribution destination designated by the user in the device after the attribute information is output to the device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09030694&OS=09030694&RS=09030694
owner: Ricoh Company, Limited
number: 09030694
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20130109
---
The present application claims priority to and incorporates by reference the entire contents of Japanese Patent Application No. 2012 003508 filed in Japan on Jan. 11 2012 and Japanese Patent Application No. 2012 272819 filed in Japan on Dec. 13 2012.

The present invention relates to an information processing system a network system and an information processing method.

With the recent progress of a communication technology and a computer technology the usage of a scanner image reading device is being enhanced. For example there is a known system that connects a scanner a distribution server and a distribution destination device to a communication network such as a local area network LAN and distributes image data generated by the scanner to the distribution destination device via the distribution server Japanese Patent Application Laid open No. 2005 094486 .

In such a system there is a known technique in which when data is to be distributed from the scanner to a folder in a document management server whether write access to the folder serving as a distribution destination is authorized or not is checked by using user information and write is allowed only when the write access is authorized Japanese Patent Application Laid open No. 2006 338210 .

However in the system described in Japanese Patent Application Laid open No. 2006 338210 whether a distribution to the folder is available or not is determined only by checking the writeaccess. Therefore in an actual distribution a write failure may occur due to a capacity shortage of the folder in the distribution destination or due to a limitation on a file path name. Therefore a user cannot recognize whether a distribution is actually performed until the distribution is performed.

Therefore there is a need to allow a user to determine when data is to be distributed to a distribution destination on a network whether to perform a distribution before performing the distribution.

It is an object of the present invention to at least partially solve the problems in the conventional technology.

According to an embodiment there is provided an information processing system that includes at least one information processing apparatus a connecting unit configured to enable a connection with at least one device via a network an acquiring unit configured to acquire attribute information on at least one distribution destination that is a destination of data to be distributed from the distribution destination the distribution destination allowing a user to designate in the device an output unit configured to output the acquired attribute information to the device via the network and a distribution control unit configured to perform a process of distributing the data to the distribution destination designated by the user in the device after the attribute information is output to the device.

According to another embodiment there is provided a network system that includes an information processing system including at least one information processing apparatus and at least one electronic device. The electronic device includes a communicating unit configured to communicate with the information processing system via a network a display unit a transmitting unit configured to transmit data and a requesting unit configured to issue to the information processing system a request to distribute the data. The information processing system includes a communicating unit configured to communicate with the electronic device via a network an acquiring unit configured to acquire attribute information on at least one distribution destination that is a destination of data to be distributed from the distribution destination the distribution destination allowing a user to designate in the device an output unit configured to display the acquired attribute information on a display unit of the electronic device and a distribution control unit configured to perform a process of distributing the data to the distribution destination designated by the use in the electronic device based on the request issued by the requesting unit of the electronic device after the attribute information is displayed on the display unit of the electronic device.

According to still another embodiment there is provided an information processing method implemented by an information processing system that includes at least one information processing apparatus and that is connected to at least one device via a network. The information processing method includes acquiring attribute information on at least one distribution destination that is a destination of data to be distributed from the distribution destination the distribution destination allowing a user to designate in the device outputting the acquired attribute information to the device via the network and performing a process of distributing the data to the distribution destination designated by the user in the device after the attribute information is output to the device.

The above and other objects features advantages and technical and industrial significance of this invention will be better understood by reading the following detailed description of presently preferred embodiments of the invention when considered in connection with the accompanying drawings.

Exemplary embodiments of the present invention will be explained in detail below with reference to the accompanying drawings.

The distribution destination devices to serve as distribution destinations to which data is distributed. Hereinafter any one of the distribution destination devices to is sometimes referred to as the distribution destination device or the distribution destination devices to are sometimes collectively referred to as the distribution destination devices . The number of the distribution destination devices is not limited to three.

In the distribution destination device is for example a storage device. When the storage device serves as a distribution destination data is distributed to for example a folder in the storage device. In the distribution destination device is a printer. When the printer serves as a distribution destination data is printed by the printer. In the distribution destination device is for example an electronic mail e mail server. When the e mail server serves as a distribution destination data is distributed to for example an e mail box in the e mail server.

The scanner is an information processing apparatus serving as a data distribution source. The scanner may be a single function scanner or may be realized by installing a scanner application in a multi function peripheral MFP . The information processing apparatus serving as the data distribution source is not limited to the scanner and any device that can output data is applicable. For example an information processing apparatus such as a personal computer PC a mobile terminal a projector or an electronic blackboard may be used as the data distribution source.

The distribution server is an information processing apparatus that registers and manages the scanner and the distribution destination devices to connected to the network NW. The distribution server transmits and receives data to and from the devices and stores the data in a built in memory hard disk or the like or transfers the data to a designated device together with an instruction on a processing content.

The distribution server stores in an internal memory management information such as addresses IP addresses of the distribution destination devices to needed to transfer image data. The distribution server transfers the image data transmitted by the scanner to the necessary distribution destination device based on the management information.

The CPU loads a program stored in the ROM or the storage unit by using the RAM as a working area and controls each of the units of the scanner .

The operating unit includes various operation keys such as numeric keys or a start key. The operating unit performs by the operation keys various operations such as setting of read information a destination registration operation or a password input operation needed to operate the scanner . The display unit displays various instruction contents input by the operating unit or various types of information notified to a user by the scanner .

The image reading unit reads an image of a document and generates image data. The image reading unit includes for example an automatic document feeder ADF to separate a plurality of documents one by one and convey each of the documents to a document read position. The image reading unit includes a light source a photoelectric conversion element and the like. The image reading unit optically reads an image of a document conveyed by the ADF or a document set at the document read position by a user and generates image data.

The storage unit stores therein various types of information. The storage unit is formed of for example a nonvolatile memory. The storage unit stores therein destination information IP addresses or the like of the distribution destination devices or authentication information a user ID a password or the like of a user of the scanner for example. The communicating unit transmits and receives information such as image data various commands and communication control signals to and from an external device such as the distribution server .

The CPU loads a program stored in the ROM or the storage unit by using the RAM as a working area and controls each of the units of the distribution server .

The operating unit includes various operation keys. The operating unit sets various types of information in the distribution server by using the operation keys. The display unit displays various types of information input via the operation keys or displays an operating state of the distribution server .

The storage unit is formed of a hard disk device or the like. The storage unit stores therein management information such as destination information of the distribution destination devices to image data transmitted by the scanner for transfer to the distribution destination devices or the like. The communicating unit transmits and receives information such as image data various commands and communication control signals to and from the scanner and the distribution destination devices to .

In the network system illustrated in a user of the scanner gives an instruction to read a document and inputs address information or the like indicating a distribution destination by using the operating unit . Upon receiving input of the distribution destination the distribution server acquires attribute information on the designated distribution destination device . The attribute information is information indicating a data processing capability of the distribution destination device . For example the attribute information corresponds to a remaining capacity of a data distribution destination e.g. a free space of a folder an e mail box or the like an amount of remaining toner in a printer a volume of data being processed a processing capability of the CPU or a traffic.

The acquired attribute information is displayed on the display unit of the scanner . In this way the display unit functions as an output unit that outputs the attribute information. Therefore the user can determine whether or not to perform a distribution before performing the distribution. Hereinafter first to third examples of a procedure for processing the attribute information will be explained in order.

As illustrated in the scanner includes an information processing unit . The distribution server includes an acquiring unit . The functional blocks indicate functions to be realized by for example causing the CPU of each of the devices to execute a program stored in the ROM or the like by using the RAM as a working area. A part or the whole of the functional blocks may be realized by a hardware circuit.

When a user inputs a distribution destination via the operating unit of the scanner the operating unit receives input of the distribution destination Step S in . The information processing unit issues a request to acquire the attribute information on the input distribution destination to the acquiring unit of the distribution server via the network NW Step S . The request contains for example destination information and acquisition information for specifying information to be acquired.

The acquiring unit acquires the attribute information from the distribution destination device based on the request Step S . The acquiring unit notifies the information processing unit of the scanner of the acquired attribute information Step S . The information processing unit displays the notified attribute information on the display unit Step S . The method to output the attribute information is not limited to display on the display unit . Any method that can output the attribute information to a user is applicable. For example the information processing unit may output voice saying the attribute information to an output unit such as a speaker not illustrated .

A user of the scanner can determine whether a distribution is available or not whether to perform a distribution based on the attribute information such as the capacity of the folder the amount of remaining toner or the capacity of the e mail box corresponding to the size of data that can be processed by each of the distribution destinations.

While an example has been explained above in which the functions are separated into the scanner and the distribution server the functions provided in each of the devices may be provided in any of the devices. For example while the acquiring unit is provided in the distribution server the acquiring unit may be provided in the scanner to directly acquire the attribute information.

As illustrated in a scanner of the second example includes the information processing unit a determining unit and a distribution control unit . The scanner stores therein determination information . The distribution server includes the acquiring unit .

Specifically the scanner of the second example includes the determining unit and the distribution control unit in addition to the functional blocks of the scanner of the first example and is provided with the determination information as information to be used.

The determining unit determines whether a data distribution to a distribution destination is available or not based on the acquired attribute information. When the determining unit determines that the data distribution is available the distribution control unit controls the data distribution to the distribution destination. The determination information is input by a user via the operating unit in advance and stored in for example the storage unit .

The second example of the procedure for processing the attribute information illustrated in will be explained below. Step S to Step S are the same as Step S to Step S in respectively therefore explanation thereof will be omitted.

The information processing unit sends the notified attribute information to the distribution control unit and sends a query about the availability unavailability of the distribution. The distribution control unit acquires the determination information corresponding to the distribution destination from the storage unit Step S . The determining unit determines the availability unavailability of the distribution based on the attribute information and the determination information Step S . The details at Step S will be explained later.

When it is determined that the distribution is available YES at Step S the distribution control unit permits execution of the distribution Step S . When it is determined that the distribution is unavailable NO at Step S the distribution control unit prohibits execution of the distribution Step S . The information processing unit displays the notified attribute information on the display unit Step S .

Therefore in the distribution process with respect to the folder for example it is possible to control execution of the distribution by prohibiting the execution of the distribution when the capacity of a distribution folder is equal to or smaller than a predetermined value.

In the information processing unit may display a notice indicating whether to execute the distribution when displaying the attribute information. When the capacity is used to control the distribution the determining unit may further determine the availability unavailability of the distribution based on distribution setting information provided by a user hereinafter described as a distribution setting and the information processing unit may display a determination result for example. The distribution setting is information indicating a setting of a distribution method. The distribution setting corresponds to a data format of data to be distributed a size of the data or resolution of the data.

For another example the information processing unit may display or control the available number of scanning sheets based on the distribution setting. is a diagram illustrating an example of a correspondence of the distribution setting with respect to an estimated capacity after a distribution and the available number of scanning sheets.

For example when the distribution setting formed of a tiff monochrome format A3 size and resolution of 200 dpi is specified when the estimated file size is 50 KB kilobytes per sheet and when the remaining capacity for the distribution before the limit value is reached is 10 MB megabytes the determining unit determines that the available number of scanning sheets is 20. The information processing unit may display the above determination result on the display unit .

The details at Step S together with Step S and S will be explained below with reference to . is a flowchart illustrating an example of the details at Step S to Step S.

The determining unit compares the attribute information and the determination information and determines the availability unavailability of the distribution based on a comparison result Step S . Specifically for example the determining unit determines that the distribution is available when the remaining capacity of the folder exceeds a set threshold xx MB and determines that the distribution is unavailable when the remaining capacity is equal to or smaller than the threshold.

When it is determined that the distribution is unavailable NO at Step S the information processing unit displays on the display unit a message indicating that the distribution is not executed Step S . The distribution control unit prohibits execution of the distribution Step S .

On the other hand when determining that the distribution is available YES at Step S the determining unit further acquires a distribution setting set by the user Step S . The determining unit compares the acquired distribution setting and the determination information and determines the availability unavailability of the distribution Step S . Specifically for example the determining unit calculates the size of a file to be distributed based on the distribution setting determines that the distribution is unavailable when the capacity of the folder after the distribution is equal to or smaller than the threshold of the remaining capacity of the folder and determines that the distribution is available when the remaining capacity of the folder after the distribution exceeds the threshold.

When the determination result indicates that the distribution is unavailable NO at Step S the information processing unit displays on the display unit a message to request the user to perform resetting in order to urge the user to change the distribution setting Step S . Thereafter the process returns to Step S. When the determination result indicates that the distribution is available YES at Step S the distribution control unit permits execution of the distribution Step S .

At Step S it may be possible to cause the determining unit to perform the following process in parallel that is a process of acquiring a user input value for example a file name together with the distribution setting determining whether the file length is equal to or shorter than a defined value determining that the distribution is available when the file length is equal to or shorter than the defined value and determining that the distribution is unavailable when the file length exceeds the defined value.

The functional blocks that are the same as or corresponding to the functional blocks illustrated in are denoted by the same reference numerals as those in .

As illustrated in a scanner of the third example includes the information processing unit and an authenticating unit . A distribution server of the third example includes an acquiring unit . Specifically the functional blocks are formed by adding the authenticating unit to the functional blocks of the scanner illustrated in . The authenticating unit performs authentication of a user based on authentication information a user ID a password or the like . The acquiring unit acquires the attribute information associated with the user by using the authentication information of the authenticated user.

The third example of the procedure for processing the attribute information illustrated in will be explained below. Step S is the same as Step S in therefore explanation thereof will be omitted.

The authenticating unit performs authentication based on the authentication information a user ID a password or the like input by the user via the operating unit Step S and sends the authentication information to the information processing unit .

The information processing unit issues a request to acquire the attribute information to the acquiring unit Step S . At this time the information processing unit transmits the authentication information of the user together with the request to acquire the attribute information. The acquiring unit acquires the attribute information associated with the user by using the request and the authentication information of the user Step S . For example the acquiring unit acquires as the attribute information the remaining capacity of a folder defined for each user or the remaining capacity of an e mail box used by the user. The acquiring unit notifies the information processing unit of the acquired information Step S . The information processing unit displays the notified attribute information on the display unit Step S . Through the above processes it is possible to acquire the attribute information associated with the user.

In the embodiment described above a scanner is employed as a device distribution source that distributes image data. However the device that distributes image data or the like may be a digital camera or a PC that transmits image data stored in a memory card.

In the first embodiment an example has been explained in which the distribution server acquires the attribute information. However the distribution server does not necessarily have to be physically a single device. For example the distribution server may be formed of one or more physical devices on a network such as a cloud. In a second embodiment an example will be explained in which an information processing system formed of one or more information processing apparatuses has a function of a distribution server. In the second embodiment various electronic devices a PC a mobile terminal and an image forming apparatus distribute data to the information processing system serving as a distribution destination.

The client terminal is an information processing apparatus such as a PC used by a user. The mobile terminal is an information processing apparatus such as a mobile phone a smartphone and a tablet terminal that is portable for use by the user. The image forming apparatus is a device such as an MFP a copier a scanner or a printer that forms an image. The electronic devices are not limited to the devices illustrated in and any device that can serve as a data distribution destination may be employed. The number of each of the electronic devices is not limited to one.

The firewall is a device that prevents fraudulent access to electronic devices in an office over a network the Internet or the like . The electronic device that serves as the distribution destination is not limited to a device in the office inside the firewall . A device outside the firewall in the mobile terminal may be used as the distribution destination.

The information processing system is a system having a function of the distribution server as described above. The storage is a storage device that serves as a data distribution destination. For example an electronic device that distributes data can request the information processing system to use the storage as the distribution destination. In this case the information processing system distributes stores data the distribution of which has been requested to in the storage .

The e mail server is a server device that controls transmission and reception of an e mail. The e mail server corresponds to for example the distribution destination device according to the first embodiment. The e mail server can serve as a data distribution destination.

The access control device is an information processing apparatus that manages provision of various services. In one access control device is illustrated. However a plurality of the access control device may be provided.

The service providing devices to are information processing apparatuses that provide various services such as a distribution service or a print service. The distribution service is a service corresponding to the functions of the distribution server of the first embodiment. Hereinafter any one of the service providing devices to is sometimes referred to as the service providing device or the service providing devices to are sometimes collectively referred to as the service providing devices . The number of the service providing devices is not limited to three.

The access control device and the service providing devices correspond to one or more information processing apparatuses included in the information processing system . It may be possible to provide the functions of the access control device and the service providing devices in a physically single information processing apparatus. Specifically it is sufficient that the information processing system including one or more information processing apparatuses has the functions corresponding to the access control device and the service providing devices .

The service application is an application program for providing a service such as the distribution service or the print service as described above. In an example is illustrated in which a distribution service application a print service application a service application A and a service application B are provided.

The distribution service application is an application having the same functions as those of the distribution server described above. Specifically for example the distribution service application has the same functions as those of the acquiring unit of the distribution server illustrated in . The print service application is an application for printing printing out data transmitted by an electronic device. The service application A and the service application B are other arbitrary applications.

Each of the applications can use the functions of each of units of the platform by using a platform API application programming interface published by the platform .

The platform has functions commonly used by all of the applications. As examples of the functions the platform includes a setting registering unit a device communicating unit an authentication processing unit a session managing unit a data processing control unit and a data processing unit .

The setting registering unit performs a process of registering setting information such as the management data . The device communicating unit controls communication with an external device such as an electronic device. The authentication processing unit performs a process of authenticating a user of the external device. The session managing unit manages a communication session with the external device. The data processing control unit controls data processing performed by the data processing unit in accordance with a request issued by the external device.

The data processing unit performs data processing corresponding to a request. The data processing unit includes an optical character reader OCR processing unit and a storage collaborating unit . The OCR processing unit performs for example a character recognition process on the data transmitted by the external device. The storage collaborating unit controls transmission and reception of the data to and from an online storage the storage or the like on a network. The data processing is not limited to an OCR process or a storage collaboration process.

The management data is data to be referred to in various processes performed by the information processing system . In the example illustrated in the management data is stored in an organization management information storage unit a user management information storage unit and a device management information storage unit .

The organization management information storage unit stores therein management information organization management information for managing organizations that use services provided by the information processing system . is a diagram illustrating an example of a data structure of the organization management information. As illustrated in the organization management information contains an organization ID an organization name a country a language a provided service and information on collaborating storages.

The organization ID is information for identifying an organization. The organization means an aggregate group of users or electronic devices. For example the organization corresponds to a company a department in the company or an aggregate of users or electronic devices using a service a group of users or electronic devices for which a service contract is made . The provided service indicates a service that can be provided to the organization identified by the organization ID. The collaborating storage information is information for specifying a storage that can be designated that can collaborate as a distribution destination of the data.

The user management information storage unit stores therein management information user management information for managing a user of the information processing system . is a diagram illustrating an example of a data structure of the user management information. As illustrated in the user management information contains an organization ID a user ID a password a role address information authentication information for a storage A and authentication information for a storage B.

The user ID is information for identifying a user. A password is not always necessary. The user ID may be any of pieces of information a card ID a serial number of a device a phone number of a mobile phone or profile information of a device for identifying an electronic medium an IC card a mobile phone a tablet terminal or an electronic book carried by a user or may be a combination of the above pieces of information. It is sufficient that a user can be uniquely identified by the organization ID and the user ID. For example it is possible to set the same user ID if the organization ID is different.

The address information is for example an e mail address for using the e mail server . The authentication information for the storage A and the authentication information for the storage B hereinafter they may be simply referred to as the storage authentication information are information used for access authentication for a collaborating storage for example the storage . The storage authentication information is set when a storage is designated as the distribution destination of the data. In an example is illustrated in which the storage authentication information contains a user ID for example User a and a password for example aaa used for the access authentication for each of the storages.

The device management information storage unit stores therein management information device management information for managing an electronic device connected to the information processing system . is a diagram illustrating an example of a data structure of the device management information. As illustrated in the device management information contains an organization ID device authentication information office information a capability and a machine name.

The device authentication information is information for authenticating the electronic device connected to the information processing system . For example the device authentication information may be an ID indicating that a specific application is installed in the electronic device a device number indicating a specific electronic device or the like. For example when receiving a request to provide a service the information processing system checks whether the device authentication information device number or the like of the electronic device serving as a request source matches the device authentication information contained in the device management information to thereby determine whether the electronic device serving as the request source is a device that is permitted to provide the service. The functional configuration example of the information processing system is not limited to the above example. The service application may include at least a part of the functions of the platform.

An example of the procedure for processing the attribute information performed by the information processing system configured as above according to the second embodiment will be explained below with reference to . is a flowchart illustrating an example of the procedure for processing the attribute information according to the second embodiment. In an example will be explained in which either a storage for example the storage or an e mail server for example the e mail server can be designated as the distribution destination. However the distribution destination is not limited to this example.

When the information processing system receives via the device communicating unit a user ID and a password that a user has input in an electronic device and the organization ID and the device authentication information stored in the electronic device the information processing system causes the authentication processing unit to perform login authentication Step S . Specifically the information processing system compares the user ID the password and the organization ID received from the electronic device with a combination of the organization ID the user ID and the password stored in the user management information storage unit to thereby determine success or failure of user authentication. Furthermore the information processing system compares the organization ID and the device authentication information received from the electronic device with a combination of the organization ID and the device authentication information stored in the device management information storage unit to thereby determine success or failure of device authentication. When the user authentication is successful and the device authentication is successful the electronic device can log into the information processing system . It is also possible to specify a provided service associated with the received organization ID and use the associated provided service. In the example in if the organization ID is XXX the distribution service and the print service are available and if the organization ID is YYY the distribution service and the service are available.

Subsequently when the user selects the distribution service from a list of the provided services and designates a distribution destination of electronic data such as scanned image data or document data the distribution service application receives input of the distribution destination designated by the user via the device communicating unit Step S . The distribution service application determines whether the designated distribution destination is the storage or not Step S . When the distribution destination is the storage Yes at Step S the distribution service application acquires the storage authentication information associated with the authenticated user from the user management information storage unit Step S . The distribution service application may acquire the storage authentication information from the user management information storage unit when the designated storage is permitted to serve as the distribution destination for the authenticated user the organization to which the user belongs . Whether the designated storage is permitted to serve as the distribution destination can be determined by for example referring to the collaborating storage information contained in the organization management information.

The distribution service application performs login access authentication to the designated storage by using the acquired storage authentication information Step S . For example the distribution service application causes the storage collaborating unit to perform a process of logging into the storage. When the login is successful the process proceeds to Step S. When the login fails an error message is transmitted to the electronic device serving as the request source for example although not illustrated and the process ends.

At Step S when it is determined that the distribution destination is not the storage No at Step S that is when the distribution destination is the e mail server the distribution service application acquires the address information from the user management information storage unit Step S .

When the login to the storage is successful Step S or when the address information used for the e mail server is acquired Step S the distribution service application issues a request to acquire the attribute information to the distribution destination Step S .

For example when the distribution destination is the storage the storage returns as the attribute information the remaining capacity of a folder allocated to the authenticated user to the distribution service application . For example when the distribution destination is the e mail server the e mail server returns as the attribute information the remaining capacity of an e mail box allocated to an e mail address the address information of the user the user of the electronic device serving as the request source who has sent the request for the attribute information to the distribution service application .

The distribution service application acquires the attribute information returned by the distribution destination Step S . The distribution service application notifies the electronic device serving as the request source of the acquired attribute information Step S . The electronic device serving as the request source displays the notified attribute information on a display unit or the like Step S .

In this way according to the second embodiment even when the information processing system including one or more information processing apparatuses has the functions of the distribution server the distribution service a user can determine whether or not to perform a distribution before performing the distribution when the data is to be distributed to the distribution destination on a network.

It may be possible to acquire the attribute information on the distribution destination when the login to the information processing system is successful the user selects the distribution service from the list of the provided services and the information processing system receives a request to use the distribution service. At this time the distribution service application uses the functions of the platform to acquire the attribute information on the distribution destination associated with the authenticated user from all of the storages and the e mail servers associated with the authenticated user by using the collaborating storage information and the address information. As a response to the request to use the distribution service a distribution setting screen containing the attribution information on each of the distribution destinations is transmitted to the electronic device so that the user can check the attribute information on each of the distribution destinations when setting a distribution destination of the electronic data.

The attribute information on a distribution destination does not necessarily have to be acquired when the user sends a request to use the distribution service. It may be possible to periodically acquire the attribute information and store the attribute information in a storage unit for example in the user management information storage unit of the information processing system . With this configuration it becomes possible to provide the attribute information stored in the information processing system to the electronic device. Therefore while the currency of the attribute information may be lowered the response speed to the electronic device can be improved.

Furthermore as explained in the second example of the first embodiment it may be possible to cause the distribution service application to perform a process of determining the availability unavailability of a distribution to the distribution destination designated by the user based on a threshold the determination information the attribute information and the like.

It may also be possible to give a notice to an administrator when the remaining capacity attribute information becomes equal to or smaller than the threshold instead of determining the availability unavailability of the distribution. Furthermore it may be possible to give a notice to the administrator in addition to the determination of the availability unavailability of the distribution.

When a data distribution to the designated distribution destination is not performed based on the determination of the availability unavailability of the distribution it may be possible to notify the electronic device which has issued a request for the data distribution of a notice indicating that the data distribution is not performed. It may also be possible to display on the electronic device a message indicating a reason why the distribution is not performed for example a distribution is not performed because the remaining capacity of the distribution destination is equal to or smaller than the threshold .

When the data distribution to the designated distribution destination is not performed and if there is another distribution destination selectable by the user it may be possible to display a selection screen to allow the user to select whether or not to distribute data to another distribution destination. At this time whether another distribution destination is selectable or not is determined based on the threshold and the attribute information and whether the selection screen is displayed or not is determined based on whether another selectable distribution destination is present based on the determination result. When it is determined that the selection screen is displayed the selection screen is displayed on the electronic device and when it is determined that the selection screen is not displayed a message as described above or the like may be displayed on the electronic device.

It may be possible to perform determination based on the amount of data currently used by a user the usage instead of based on the remaining capacity. For example it may be possible to set a threshold of the usage of the storage A to 10 MB megabytes and determine the availability unavailability of the distribution or determine whether or not to give a notice to an administrator based on whether user s data usage attribute information acquired from the storage exceeds the threshold or based on whether the data usage will exceed the threshold by the distribution of electronic data.

When the distribution destination selected by the user is a storage shared by an organization for example it may be possible to display a total data usage used by the organization by all of users associated with one organization ID or use the total data usage as a threshold instead of the data usage used by each of the users. In this case for example if a shared storage is registered in the collaborating storage information of the organization management information and the information processing system has authentication information on login to the shared storage all of the users associated with the organization ID can designate the shared storage as the distribution destination. The authentication information on login to the shared storage may be managed as the user management information.

In some cases one organization may have a plurality of organization IDs. For example in a company A a head office in Japan has one organization ID XXX1 and a branch office in the United States of America has another organization ID XXX2 . In this case the information processing system may manage the organization IDs XXX1 and XXX2 by using a group ID XXXG in the organization management information storage unit and enable to use a storage as a distribution destination associated with any of the organization IDs belonging to the same group ID. With this configuration for example a user associated with the organization ID XXX1 can check the attribute information on a storage associated with the organization ID XXX2 on a screen and designate the storage as a data distribution destination.

The program executed by the devices of the above embodiments is provided by being incorporated in a ROM or the like in advance.

The program executed by the devices of the above embodiments may be provided as a computer program product by being recorded in a computer readable recording medium such as a CD ROM a flexible disk FD a CD R or a Digital Versatile Disk DVD in a computer installable or a computer executable file format.

The program executed by the devices of the above embodiments may be stored in a computer connected to a network such as the Internet and may be downloaded via the network. The program executed by the devices of the above embodiments may be provided or distributed via a network such as the Internet.

The program executed by the devices of the above embodiments has a module structured including the units described above. As actual hardware a CPU processor reads the program from the ROM and executes the program so that the above units are loaded and generated on a main storage medium.

According to the embodiments when data is to be distributed to a distribution destination on a network a user can determine whether or not to execute the distribution before execution of the distribution.

Although the invention has been described with respect to specific embodiments for a complete and clear disclosure the appended claims are not to be thus limited but are to be construed as embodying all modifications and alternative constructions that may occur to one skilled in the art that fairly fall within the basic teaching herein set forth.

