---

title: System and methods for improved network routing
abstract: Known intra-domain routing methods (e.g., OSPF and IS-IS) are link-state routing protocols with hop-by-hop forwarding that sacrifice optimal traffic engineering for ease of implementation and management. Known optimal traffic engineering procedures are either not link-state methods or require source routing—characteristics that make them difficult to implement. Certain embodiments of the present invention include a fully distributed, adaptive, link-state routing protocol with hop-by-hop forwarding configured to achieve optimal traffic engineering. Such embodiments facilitate significant performance improvements relative to known intra-domain routing methods and decrease network infrastructure requirements.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09521067&OS=09521067&RS=09521067
owner: Cornell University
number: 09521067
owner_city: Ithaca
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130927
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 707 327 filed Sep. 28 2012.

This invention was made with government support under CCF 0835706 awarded by National Science Foundation NSF . The government has certain rights in the invention.

Networks are typically formed by one or more interconnected pathways. In a network items may travel along the various pathways. A network may include more than one pathway from a first location to a second location. The process of selecting among the two or more pathways for the item s to travel is termed routing for the purposes of this application. Routing may be performed for many kinds of networks including a telephone network transportation networks and an electronic data network such as a local area network wide area network intranet extranet or Internet .

For the purposes of this application the present invention is discussed in reference to routing certain types of items specifically information items through certain types of networks specifically electronic data networks but the discussion is merely exemplary. The present invention is applicable to routing movement of any type of item through any type of network. For example certain embodiments of the present invention may be configured to address other multi commodity flow problems such as traffic engineering road networks and commodity flow in the economy.

As indicated above certain embodiments of the present invention are directed to routing information in electronic data networks. Electronic data networks may be comprised of at least a group of two or more nodes. An example of a node is a physical electronic device e.g. a router computer or switch . A node also may be a virtual manifestation of such a device. For the purposes of this application the term node is interchangeable with the term router .

Typically information is transferred between nodes in a formatted unit of data such as a packet byte character datagram or bit. Certain embodiments of the present invention will be discussed with reference to transfer of information packets but this discussion is non limiting and merely exemplary. Generally any formatted unit of data may be transferred among nodes according to the present invention or more generally any commodity may be transferred along pathways in a network.

An information packet may be routed from a source node to a destination node. More specifically the information packet may travel from a source node directly to a destination node or may travel from a source node to one or more intermediate nodes and then reach a destination node. For the purposes of this application the portion of the route between each node and a second node is termed a link .

The specific nodes through which the information packet travels which form the pathway may be selected based on some criteria such as shortest distance between source node and destination node or most bandwidth availability along the pathway. Certain criteria information e.g. distance between certain nodes may be obtained and stored in a storage component. Examples of a storage component include a routing table a topology map a main memory or secondary memory the latter two of which are described in more detail below .

In certain embodiments each node has its own storage component which contains information regarding that node s links to other nodes. For example a storage component for a single node may include the information such as the distance between that single node and each other neighboring node. For the purposes of this application a neighboring node is a node to which a source node can directly transfer information without need for an intermediate node.

Various procedures for routing information packets through the pathways of an electronic data network existed before the present invention. Certain types of earlier known routing procedures are called link state routing procedures . Such procedures are configured to select pathways for the information packets based on the state of the links between nodes. For purposes of this application the term link state refers to a numerical description of the state of the link. It could be a number 1 to indicate a functioning link vs. a number 0 to indicate an inactive link. In another embodiment the link state could be a valuation of the amount of traffic on the link.

Typically the shortest distance between a source node and each other node in the network is calculated. The distance may be considered a price for the purposes of the calculation. A higher distance has a higher price and a shorter distance has a lower price. The procedure may seek to minimize the overall price of the set of links that form the pathway. Then when an information packet travels through the selected pathway it does so by traveling the shortest distance.

However such procedures have certain disadvantages in that the pathway with the shortest distance may not be the most efficient pathway. For example the most efficient pathway may get overburdened and become unable to support the quantity of information packets routed through that pathway. Accordingly more advanced systems and methods added additional criteria to calculate the price of the respective links and overall pathway. For example such criteria may include available bandwidth between nodes expected delay in communicating between nodes pathway reliability or pathway availability.

In certain known procedures the route for the information packet is re analyzed at each node. For example at a source node an evaluation is done to assess the lowest price second node in light of the ultimate destination node. A second assessment is done at the second node to determine the lowest price subsequent node in order to reach the destination node. The analysis is done at every subsequent node until the information packet reaches the destination node. This type of process is called hop by hop routing because a separate analysis is done relative to each node to determine each subsequent hop over a link.

Each network may include more than one packet travelling through the system. In the analysis step done at each node in systems using the hop by hop approach the selection of which packets or how many packets follow which pathway through which nodes is termed a split ratio .

Generally the hop by hop routing procedures are limited in that they do not always achieve the optimal route over the entire pathway. For example in the network illustrated in if node A is the source node and node D is the destination node the analysis at node A includes an assessment whether node B or node C has a lower price. The price of the link between node A and node B is rated 4 while the price of the link between node A and node C is rated 10. Accordingly the analysis will identify node B as the lowest price subsequent node. Then the analysis at node B will identify node D as the best subsequent node. The overall price will be 18 calculated by adding link price A B 4 and the price of link B to D 14 . However if the analysis at node A could have all the information about the network analyzed appropriately it would have calculated that the route from node A C D actually has a lower price of 16 calculated by adding A C Link price of 10 plus C D Link price of 6 relative to the A B D price of 18. The route A C D would have optimized the objective of using the lowest price route over the entire network.

In general optimized or optimal routing procedures may include a method configured to achieve the most efficient mathematically physically possible result for any identified objective e.g. minimize total delay maximize use of network resources minimize distance traveled or combination of objectives determined by a network operator. Alternatively the objectives may be prioritized by the system either in real time as the system is processing the routes or by a list of priorities identified before the route processing begins. The problem of optimizing network traffic is termed traffic engineering or TE for the purposes of this application.

Overall known routing procedures configured to achieve optimal or near optimal traffic engineering over a network are associated with many disadvantages. In general such procedures are typically difficult to implement or manage and may not take into account any change in the conditions of a link in the network. The ability to recognize and respond to changes in the state of the link or state of the network is called being adaptive . More specifically an adaptive routing method is configured to recognize and respond to changes in the state of the network such as the traffic demand of the commodities or packets as recognized from the input to the method automatically. Certain known routing procedures and their respective disadvantages are discussed below.

An alternative to hop by hop routing is termed source routing in which the entire route from the source node to the destination node is calculated by the source node. Source routing can be difficult to implement because the source node has to encode in the information packet the entire pathway that it must take through the network. This could potentially be more information than the payload of the packet.

Examples of source routing include the flow deviation technique the gradient projection approach and proximal decomposition methods. However these optimization procedures require the network to establish end to end virtual circuits or to encode the entire pathway each packet should take at the origin of that packet. As the traffic patterns change the established circuits become less useful and performance levels decrease.

Instead of using source routing efforts have been made to improve the optimality of traffic engineering in known hop by hop link state procedures. For example techniques have been shown to improve the performance of certain hop by hop link state procedures e.g. Open Shortest Path First OSPF significantly by finding better weight settings for the procedure. However the results are still far from optimal traffic engineering. Typically these efforts also assume that a good estimate of the traffic demand in the form of a traffic matrix is available. For the purposes of this application a traffic matrix is a matrix representation of the current traffic demand between the nodes in a network. While work has been done on traffic matrix estimation even the best results have errors in the elements of the estimated traffic matrix on the order of 20 difficulties which can lead to potentially bad traffic engineering.

Oblivious routing has been proposed to circumvent the need for estimating the traffic matrix for improved traffic engineering. Such procedures seek to perform well regardless of the traffic demand by comparing the oblivious performance ratio of the routing i.e. the worst case performance of the routing for a given network over all possible demands. Examples of such procedures are a linear programming method to determine the best oblivious routing solution for the special case of minimizing maximum channel utilization and another procedure configured to maximize throughput for the special case of two phase routing. Some clear limitations of these procedures are that the oblivious routing solutions do not adapt well to changes in the network topology and that by not taking advantage of actual traffic information the routing still incurs possibly significant performance losses.

Other hop by hop routing procedures are based on distance vector methods. Distance vector methods call for each router to send all or some portion of its routing table to other nodes but only to its neighboring nodes.

As long as a node has access to the average price e.g. average distance to each destination at each of its neighbors such as the averages calculated in Equation 1 below it has enough information to make optimal forwarding decisions. From an optimization standpoint the main ideas follow directly from the decomposition of the dual of the traffic engineering optimization problem. Such decompositions which have been very successful for problems of this type can be used to yield updating rules for both primal and dual variables split ratios and node prices that can be shown to converge to optimal solutions. Similar node based ideas have also been applied to cross layer optimization of networks.

However such distance vector procedures are often difficult to scale up in large networks and lack robustness. More specifically in one example of the lack of robustness in distance vector systems one router started advertising to its neighboring nodes that it has essentially zero distance to all destinations. The neighboring nodes started shifting traffic to this router followed by the neighboring nodes respective neighboring nodes. Eventually the router went down under the traffic load but many routers in the Internet were still pointing or trying to point towards this router.

Also distance vector procedures can converge slowly as packets need to be passed in a step by step manner from one end of the network to another for route computations to take place.

Clearly there are challenges associated with implementing procedures configured to provide optimized traffic engineering in a network. While procedures have been developed to implement optimized procedures of certain portions of a network the challenges associated with scaling such procedures to appropriate size for certain networks has limited the usefulness of such procedures.

Accordingly hop by hop link state routing procedures that are not optimized are commonly used in many networks despite not resulting in optimal use of network resources. Examples of such non optimized procedures include the Open Shortest Path First OSPF procedure and the Intermediate System Intermediate System IS IS procedure. Such procedures are relatively easy to implement manage and scale up and accordingly have been widely applied but lack optimality.

Clearly there is a demand for a hop by hop link state traffic optimal routing system and methods for routing items through a network. The present invention satisfies this demand.

Certain embodiments of the present invention include a system and methods for routing items through a network. Generally the problem of how to route items through a network is considered a multi commodity flow problem MCF . The Karush Kuhn Tucker KKT conditions of the MCF problem are what permit focusing on shortest paths based on the price and to show optimality of the method.

Certain embodiments of the present invention are configured to implement an adaptive traffic optimized hop by hop and link state approach to solving the MCF problem in a network.

Advantageously since the hop by hop approach is incorporated the system does not have to set up virtual circuits end to end tunnels or encode the pathway the packet should follow at the origin. By optimizing the traffic some criteria or combination of criteria e.g. speed reliability or availability of the path is maximized or minimized for the network or some portion of the network.

Advantageously since the link state approach is incorporated each node has access to the state of each link and a single node cannot take down the network as with distance vector implementations. There are two efficient ways to calculate the shortest path through the network using a link state implementation or a distance vector implementation. Given the disadvantage of distance vector the link state approach is preferred.

Certain embodiments of the present invention are also adaptive and accordingly configured to receive and process information regarding the changing state of links among nodes in the network.

In certain embodiments the system and methods of the present invention may be configured to implement the method in a distributed manner. More specifically given the link state information each router may independently perform the relevant computations. However this is a feature and not a requirement. The same calculations could be performed at any place with access to all the local node information such as the inflow rate and the split ratios.

Certain embodiments of the present invention include routing more than one information packet through a pathway in the network. In such embodiments the optimal routing may include sending all the packets on the same pathway through the network termed single path routing or sending certain packets on different pathways through the network termed multi path routing . An optimal solution typically uses multiple paths between the source node and the destination node.

Certain embodiments of the present invention are configured to be implemented on a network running various types of routing systems and methods. Such embodiments may be configured to co function with one or more single path routers or multi path routers in the same network. In other words each router in a network may be configured to implement a routing method according to the present invention or routing methods outside the scope of the present invention. Advantageously even if the system and methods of the present invention is implemented in only a portion of the routers in a network the performance of the network improves.

Certain embodiments of the present invention is configured to be iterative which means that the system and methods are configured to dynamically adjust the traffic forwarding successfully at each node to seek the most optimal pathway.

The system may be understood by comparison to an example of another type of network that is a road network during rush hour. Each driver may intend to drive their car from work to home which is comparable to an information packet that needs to go from a source node to a destination node. Car drivers typically prefer to use the shortest path back home to minimize their commute. However at rush hour there are many car drivers following the same strategy. Consequently the major expressways get overcrowded and backed up even though under non rush hour circumstances those expressways would have indeed represented the fastest path for each driver to get home.

During rush hour drivers may tune in to the radio and listen to the traffic report detailing the status of different roads that they can take to their destination. The traffic report is comparable to the link states in embodiments of the present invention. Then the car driver adaptively chooses which road to take at each junction of certain roads hop by hop in the present invention based on the incoming radio report so that they can get home quickly. Since multiple drivers are likely getting the same road traffic reports a lot of car drivers might all choose to leave the expressway and take back roads to their destinations which only makes traffic and delay significantly worse on those back roads. In the present invention this problem is managed by a method step that splits the traffic at junctions based on their destination so that not everybody piles onto the same alternative route. The exact splits are determined iteratively and dynamically to optimize the traffic flow based on the traffic conditions reported via the radio reports link states.

As discussed above many networks including the Internet already use link states e.g. comparable to the radio traffic reports . Specifically OSPF which controls routing on over 95 of the Internet relies on these link state updates. However OSPF relies on reports that include pre computed weights that are operator specific. The weights may be an inverse of the link bandwidth or some number assigned based on statistical historical knowledge of the traffic conditions on the link.

In contrast certain embodiments of the present invention use reports improved relative to the OSPF reports. For instance one type of improved report may indicate the number of packets e.g. cars in the road example between two junctions e.g. intersections in the car example while another type of improved report may indicate the number of packets per unit of distance or cars per mile between two junctions. Each report conveys different information. In the present invention the link state is reported to achieve optimal performance.

In general certain embodiments of the present invention include a number of method steps. A method may begin with ascertaining one or more links between two nodes in a network. A price value may be assigned to each link between the one or more nodes. The price value of the respective links may be shared among certain or all nodes in the network. When the system receives a request for routing one or more packets through the network the optimal subsequent node i.e. next hop for each packet may be calculated. The calculation is repeated at each subsequent node until the destination node is reached. In certain embodiments each node includes its own processor and main memory each of which is described in more detail later in the application configured to implement the entire method. In other embodiments certain steps are done in one processor and information about those steps is communicated to processors in one or more nodes.

One object of certain embodiments of the present invention is improved performance relative to known procedures for optimized traffic engineering.

Another object of certain embodiments of the present invention is improved performance by upwards of 1000 relative to known procedures for optimized traffic engineering.

Another object of certain embodiments of the present invention is easier implementation of the system and methods relative to known procedures for optimized traffic engineering.

Another object of certain embodiments of the present invention is easier management of the system and methods relative to known procedures for optimized traffic engineering.

Another object of certain embodiments of the present invention is improved overall traffic engineering relative to known hop by hop procedures link state procedures or hop by hop link state procedures.

Yet another object of certain embodiments of the present invention is that it does not require estimating a traffic matrix.

Yet another object of certain embodiments of the present invention is that it does not require source routing.

Yet another object of certain embodiments of the present invention is easier scalability e.g. scaling up or scaling down as needed for the size of a network relative to known procedures.

Yet another object of certain embodiments of the present invention is to use the same inputs used in OSPF or IS IS to facilitate easier transition between networks currently utilizing OSPF or IS IS procedures.

A difference between certain embodiments of the invention and existing link state procedures is an argument for how to control the ratio according to which an internet router splits traffic to a destination across its outgoing links. Since it needs no additional input and can work with existing infrastructure implementing embodiments of the invention would include modifying the component of the router running OSPF to run such embodiments of the invention. For practical implementation a discrete time version of the continuous time argument is necessary. However since the continuous time argument has been shown to be valid it is only a question of selecting a small enough step size to implement the present invention. In other words the step size includes using discrete time steps instead of continuous time. A digital implementation requires time steps to operate whereas an analog implementation does not require time steps to operate. Since computers are digital discrete time steps are typically required.

In certain embodiments the invention can be distributed as a software service a hardware component configured to implement the method or as a full scale router.

The present invention and its attributes and advantages will be further understood and appreciated with reference to the detailed description below of presently contemplated embodiments taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

The question of how to route information packets through an electronic data network can be defined more generally as a multi commodity flow MCF problem. For a given directed graph G V E with node router set V and edge link set E with link capacities c u v E and demands D s t defined as the rate required for communication from s to t the MCF problem can been summarized below.

Commodities are defined in terms of their final destination t. is the flow on link u v corresponding to commodity t and is the total flow on link u v . The cost function is typically selected to be a convex function of the link rate vector u v E. For example if the M M 1 delay formula is used for the cost function then c . Throughout this application this cost function will be used unless specified otherwise. It is also assumed that when c. This element captures the common practice of not allowing links to operate too close to their capacity. For the purposes of this application given a function the character to represent the derivative of with respect to and dot over to represent the time derivative of .

Using the first derivative of the cost function as the price of a link in distance calculations permits the achievement of an optimal solution. The price of the link u v is defined as w the price of a path p as wand the price at a node u to a destination t as 

As identified above the selection of which packets or how many packets follow which path through which nodes is termed a split ratio . A split ratio may be determined for each commodity e.g. information packet at every node. More specifically each router s split ratios are adjusted and traffic is moved from one outgoing link to another. Such embodiments only control the next hop on a packet path which is hop by hop routing. If the entire path rate was controlled the system would be using source routing. Also the split ratio determination may include favoring links that form the shortest pathway even though the average price via the next hop node may not be the lowest. If the lowest average price was prioritized this is termed Gallager s approach which is a distance vector solution Gallager s approach is compared with an embodiment of the present invention in . The dashed line represents Gallager s approach and the solid line represents an embodiment of the present invention. 

In addition the split ratio determination may include adapting the split ratios dynamically and incrementally by decreasing the packet traffic along links that belong to non shortest paths while increasing along the link that is part of the shortest path at every router. In contrast if split ratios are set to send packets only to the links leading to the currently calculated shortest path then the result is OSPF with weights w.

Certain portions of certain embodiments of the present invention are configured to address specific scenarios that may occur in a network. One scenario is illustrated in . One or more information packets are available for routing through the network . The rate of demand for routing information packets may be represented by r . Upon reaching node A the one or more information packets may be sent along a first link or a second link . In the illustrated embodiment the first link has a more expensive price according to some criteria e.g. longer distance lower reliability etc. . The more expensive price is represented by the character w . The second link has a less expensive price and is represented by the character w .

Given w w a strategy to reach optimal use of the first link and the second link might be to dynamically shift traffic from the more expensive link to the cheaper link at some rate 0 until the prices of the two links become the same. The split ratio for the first link at node A is represented by and the split ratio for the second link is represented by . In certain embodiments the traffic over the first link is decreased and traffic at the second link is increased. The value may be decreased while the value is increased at rate r. In such embodiments the first link price is w r and the second link price w r .

There are at least two ways to interpret and generalize the intuition gained from this scenario. Both give the same solution for this very simple example but in general will lead to different dynamics and possibly different split ratios. One interpretation which forms the basis of procedures used in certain known methods is that the router shifts traffic headed to neighbor nodes with higher average price to the neighbor node with the lowest average price.

A second interpretation which is the basis of certain embodiments of the present invention is that the router shifts traffic from links along more expensive paths to the link along the path with the lowest price. Mathematically the following update rule for the split ratios is 

However as a potential counter example to this interpretation some version of the scenario described in may be relevant. illustrates traffic demand of rate r from node A to node C. In the network there is a first node node A a second node node B and a third node node C . There is a first link between node B and node C a second link between node B and node C a third link between node A and node B and a fourth link between node A and node C. The initial splits at node A are represented by for the fourth link along an intermediate price link with price wand aalong the more expensive route with price w wfor the third link assuming a 1 initially. The relationship between the initial link prices are assumed to be w w w w i.e. the third link A B is along the shortest path from node A to node C but node B also has the most expensive way to reach node C. The concern is that if node A shifts traffic from the intermediate price link to the link with price w the cost might increase as node B currently routes traffic only through the most expensive link 1 . But because the selection at node B decreases and increases in conjunction with the changes at node A the total cost does in fact decrease. More precisely the cost derivative can be calculated as follows 

The scenario illustrated in can be used to illustrate the difference between certain embodiments of the present invention and Gallager s technique which arises from the fact that the link leading to the neighbor with the lowest average price path A C with price w may not lead to the cheapest path path A B C with price w w . shows the trajectories taken by the two different methods to converge to the optimal solution for the illustrated topology. To simulate the long link between node B and node C an intermediate dummy node D may be introduced that splits the bottom link between B and C into two equal capacity links. The capacities used could be A B 5 B C 10 A C B D D C 3. The single demand is D A C r. The rate r 1 and initially 0.5 and 1. At each node the split ratios to a given destination have to add up to the value 1. Accordingly only one split ratio is calculated at each node because the value of that split ratio automatically defines the value of the other at each node. Using Gallager s method initially as can be seen following the lowest average price path to the destination A C there is an increase in the value of . Also the trajectory of the method gradient descent is perpendicular to the objective function contour curves. On the other hand using an embodiment of the present invention both split ratios are decreased initially. The trajectory based on an embodiment of the present invention is usually not perpendicular to the contour curves which represent the cost of the network. However the trajectory still goes along a descent direction and drives the total cost down.

The scenario illustrated in is configured to exemplify why Equation 3 is not sufficient to decrease network cost along any trajectory. illustrates k intermediate price links from router A to router C each of which gets k fraction of the demand. The relationship between the link prices is the same as in the example illustrated in . The shifting of traffic in an unrestricted fashion from the intermediate price links to router B with 1 might result in an increase in the cost. The following calculation shows how the cost may increase.

Additional adaptations to the Equation 4 can be made to improve the likelihood that its application will result in a decrease in cost of the network. The scenario in includes multiple inputs. The link weights as illustrated are w w w w. In the illustrated embodiment there are k sources e.g. demands D A C r I 1 . . . k that have information packets to be sent to node C. Shifting traffic in an unrestricted manner from all the sources to router B with 1 may cause the total cost to increase as shown by the calculations below.

Once again it is possible to modify the rule for the split ratios from rto r. In certain embodiments the k while for a general network may be calculated according to a method specified later in this application. The calculation for determining the routing of information packets is updated to 

Overall embodiments of the present invention results in split ratios for all the links converging to a set where every element of the set achieves the global optimum to the MCF problem and accordingly achieves optimal traffic engineering for the network. To illustrate a few more notations are defined below.

Branch cardinality is used to make sure that nodes that are farther away from a destination node are more conservative in how much traffic they shift to the shortest path leading to the destination. As noted earlier if nodes simply shifted a large percentage or all of their traffic to the shortest node the performance of the network would be poor. OSPF is an example of the latter. The characters which represent the branch cardinality are defined as the product of the number of branches encountered in traversing the shortest path tree e.g. route rooted at t from t to u. Being a link state routing method each node u has the link state information to run Dijkstra s method to compute the shortest path tree to destination t. Every node has to independently determine the same shortest path tree to permit the method to proceed as desired. At any stage of Dijkstra s method if there is ambiguity as to which node should be added next tie breaking based on node index is used. For the purposes of the present application a node index is an identifier that uniquely describes each node in a network. Examples include a MAC address IP address etc.

An exemplary calculation of is illustrated in method steps below. More specifically the method steps are configured to calculate w E.

The overall link state routing method can be used to control the evolution of the destination specific split ratio for any node u. Suppose that u E and u is part of the shortest path to t from u. Then certain embodiments of the present invention calculate the split ratios as follows.

The equations above specify how to iteratively decide modifying packet forwarding at each router. First each node checks to see whether it has traffic to a given destination. If it does not already have traffic going to a destination it forwards all newly received packets to that destination along the shortest path to that destination. If it does already have traffic going to a destination it adjusts what fraction of traffic it forwards along its different outgoing links according to the equations. As noted in the case studies earlier it reduces the traffic along non shortest paths and increases it along the outgoing link leading to the currently calculated shortest path. This procedure is iteratively followed until the optimal solution is obtained.

To prove the optimality of the above link state hop by hop method two lemmas will be analyzed. The first Lemma relates the node prices to the link weights for each destination t. More specifically 

It analytically states the intuitive idea that the total price of sending traffic to meet the demand in the network as defined by the sum of the products of the traffic demand rate and the node price for each demand node is equal to the sum over all links of the price of sending traffic through each link. The second lemma describes how to calculate the time rate of change of network cost.

The second Lemma captures the fact that the change in network cost can either be expressed in terms of the change in the link flow rates i.e. how each link affects the network cost or in terms of the change in the split ratios at each node i.e. how each node affects the network cost.

Theorem. In a network at every node u for every destination t let the evolution of the split ratios be defined by equations 6 9 . Then starting from any initial conditions converges to the largest invariant set in 0 and any element of this set yields an optimal solution to the MCF problem. This result is proved in three steps of the following proof.

Proof. First it is shown that dot over 0. Then this result invokes LaSalle s Invariance Principle for hybrid systems to assert that converges to the largest invariant set in 0. Third it is shown that any element of this set is an optimal solution to the MCF problem.

This part of the step 1 method is configured to decompose the change in cost to a particular destination t by grouping the terms from the summation derived in Lemma 2 using the branches of the shortest path tree rooted at that destination. More precisely a branch B is defined as the set of nodes on the path from a leaf node on the shortest path tree to the destination node t. Given the definition some intermediate nodes clearly will be shared among multiple branches. The change in cost contributed by these nodes is properly divided among the different branches that pass through these routers in the following way. Each node u has a corresponding value which appears in the denominator of the expression for the change in cost. When grouping terms for a particular branch passing through an intermediate node to only take a fraction 1 of the change in cost contributed by the intermediate node to be summed with that branch so that for that node u is the same as the branch cardinality of the leaf router which defines the branch. Consequently will be the same for all routers u encountered in a traversal from the leaf router of the branch to the destination. Given the definition of and one can check 1 1 so the total contributing form node u is distributed over different branches. See the following equation.

The last inequality follows from the fact that the average price from the leaf router node 1 to the destination node n which can be thought of as an average over paths from Equation 2 has to be no less than the price of the shortest path. Note that this relationship holds with equality only when the node price of the leaf node is the same as the price of the shortest path which means that all the traffic from every node in the branch to the destination is along shortest paths to the destination.

The next step is related to convergence. Given the control laws it is clear that dot over 0. In order to show convergence the language of hybrid automata is used to model the dynamics of this system and methods. Specifically embodiments of this invention are an example of a non blocking deterministic and continuous hybrid automaton. Consequently invoking a generalization of LaSalle s Invariance Principle to hybrid automata ensures that the set of split ratios converges to the largest invariant set within dot over 0.

The subsequent step is related to optimality. For dot over 0 to be true dot over 0 which implies that the change in cost along each branch is as follows.

From the preceding analysis the change in cost along a branch B is zero only when all the traffic from the nodes that belong to the branch is being routed to the destination through shortest paths with respect to the link prices. Since this is a necessary and sufficient condition for optimality in MCF the proof is complete.

Next as an illustrative example to help understand the first step of the above proof a sample shortest path tree is analyzed and the corresponding cost change calculations are identified explicitly. A shortest path tree is illustrated in . The number of branches that the tree is divided into is determined by the number of leaf nodes. In the illustrated example the shortest path tree rooted at t has 12 leaf routers and consequently the summation is divided into 12 branches. Following the method for the calculation of then 1 3 9 and 18.

As noted in the proof the change in the cost function due to the routers increasing traffic along the links in the shortest path tree can be calculated using Lemma 2. In order to evaluate it the terms in the summation are divided and grouped per branch. For routers downstream to a leaf router in a branch only a fraction of the change in the cost contributed by the downstream router is selected where the fraction is determined by the need to have the same for all routers in the summation for a branch. The contribution to the change in the cost by the routers for the highlighted branch can be calculated as follows 

As shown in the present invention may follow a different trajectory from Gallager s method in searching for an optimal solution. But in that case both methods converged to the same optimal solution. In general because MCF problem is strictly convex in link rates and only convex in flow rates there can be multiple optimal solutions in terms of the flow rates. For example illustrates an example of a network topology. Each link in the network has capacity of 5 and there are two demands D 1 4 D 1 5 2. The initial routes supplied to the different methods are 1 3 2 4 and 1 2 4 5 i.e. 0 and 1. includes a graph of solutions provided by an embodiment of the present invention designated as HALO . Clearly each method generates a different optimal solution all of which satisfy 1 an optimality condition which follows from the fact that at optimum 0 and the resulting symmetry of the problem.

Before reviewing how embodiments of the present invention may interact with a single path routing method certain terms are defined. First for the purposes of this application a single path method used to make routing decisions is a router that uses a set of link weights to calculate the shortest path to the destination and makes forwarding decisions based on that shortest path. Also if the single path router calculations are triggered as often as that in the present invention examples can be illustrated in which the routes in the network will oscillate and not settle down. This is because the single path method moves all the traffic from one path to another instead of just a fraction. Also a notion of time scale separation between how often the method of the present invention is triggered and the single path method is triggered. In certain embodiments the subset of routers running the present invention will execute the method in between slower single path calculations. Given this set up the two methods can work with either the same link weights or method specific link weights. Since local optimization methods exist for calculating single path method link weights and because method specific calculations can be triggered on the receipt of new method specific link weights the use of method specific link weights generally are broadcast by each router at different timescales. However this assumption is more important from an implementation perspective than for the argument that follows.

Another useful assumption is that each router is aware of the method that the other routers in the network are using. With the time scale separation and the assumption that every router is aware of the specific method running at every other router for a given destination the single path routers have a pruning effect on the network from the perspective of the routers running an embodiment of the present invention i.e. the outgoing links that are not used by them are effectively not a part of the network topology. Assuming that every router is aware of the specific method running at every other router the nodes running embodiments of the present invention will base their calculations on this reduced network and attain the optimal routing solution for this network. Essentially the routers implementing an embodiment of the present invention increase the search space for finding a better routing solution and thus improve network performance.

Certain embodiments of the present invention can be evaluated for certain performance metrics specifically the optimality rate of convergence to the optimal solution adaptivity as the traffic changes and asynchronous environments and its interaction with single path routing methods. The evaluations may be performed on three network topologies the benchmark Abilene network a 4 4 Mesh network and a two level hierarchical 50 node network. The 4 4 Mesh network may be selected to study the effects of intermediate routing loops on the optimality of the present invention as this topology is particularly prone to such loops while the hierarchical network may be selected to mimic larger networks with high capacity backbone links and lower capacity local links. An additional test may be performed on an even larger randomly generated 100 node network in order to confirm that the method converges quickly for large networks. Randomly generated traffic demands may be used for the mesh network and the hierarchical network while for the Abilene network uniform traffic demand is used. In any of the three cases the demand may be scaled up until at least one link in the network is close to saturation at the optimal solution.

Regarding convergence the speed of convergence depends on the step size. In certain embodiments the step size is the unit of time with which the changes in the split ratios calculated in Equations 6 9 is multiplied to determine how much to vary the split ratios from one time slot to the next. The metric network load is defined as the ratio of the total traffic on the network to its total capacity. In general smaller step sizes improve convergence of an embodiment of the present invention to the optimal solution at the expense of speed of convergence.

This concept is illustrated in . However as illustrated in and larger step sizes quickly approach the optimal solution though they can be prone to oscillations which prevent convergence to optimality. Often it is sufficient to come to some neighborhood of the optimal solution and small oscillations around the optimal solution are acceptable. In such situations a larger step size may be used. In certain embodiments e.g. for the larger 100 node network illustrated in the system and method was fairly quick converging to a small neighborhood of the optimal solution within a few hundred iterations.

Another factor that affects the rate of convergence of the system and methods is the load on the network. The maximum network load for the Abilene network may be 24.6 mesh network may be 26.1 and the hierarchical network may be 5.3 . These values indicate the point at which further scaling up the demand for the given traffic pattern would exceed the capacity of at least one link in the network even with optimal routing. From it is clear that the system and methods take more iterations to converge to the optimal solution for more heavily loaded networks. The present invention converges to the optimal solution on the order of a thousand iterations. Given that link state advertisements can be broadcast on the order of milliseconds the possibility of convergence times of less than a second to a few seconds for the method on networks where transmission propagation delay of the link state advertisements is not a limiting factor.

Regarding performance the optimal solution may be calculated for the test networks by solving the corresponding MCF problem using cvx method known in the art or another method known in the art under different network load conditions. The objective value obtained by using the present invention matched the optimal solution for each test case as can be seen from . Also the intermediate routing loops produced while determining the optimal solution for the mesh network did not affect the optimality of the system and methods.

In the performance of an embodiment of the present invention is compared with OSPF boosted by better weight settings obtained from the methods of the TOTEM toolbox for demand matrices that placed increasing loads on the test networks. The local search method used by TOTEM minimizes a piecewise linear approximation of the convex cost function. As described above the power of optimality is demonstrated by the performance improvements on the order of 1000 .

To illustrate how certain embodiments of the present invention are configured to dynamically adapt to changes in traffic on the network illustrates the evolution of the optimality gap as a traffic matrix undergoes changes under different network load conditions in the Abilene network. In this example after around 300 iterations the network load is changed by changing 20 of the flows in the network. As can be seen the method quickly adapts and the optimality gap increases very little before beginning to converge to the new optimal solution. The traffic pattern is again changed by varying 50 of the flows in the network after 800 iterations. This time the change in the optimality gap is greater but the convergence to the new optimal value is seen to be quicker. The traffic pattern in the network is changed two more times and as can be observed from the figure in both cases the method quickly converges to the new optimal solution.

A closely related concept to certain embodiments of the system and methods of the present invention is the evolution of the split ratios at individual routers. A plot of the evolution of the split ratios from Indianapolis to Los Angeles is illustrated in . For the test traffic the initial sub optimal allocation of split ratios is quickly corrected as the present invention reduces traffic sent to Chicago and increases traffic sent to Kansas City and Atlanta.

In dynamic network environments random delays can affect the time it takes for link state information to reach every node in the network as required by certain embodiments of the method. Note that without synchronized link state updates facets of the present invention e.g. calculating the shortest path tree and may be affected. There are at least two ways to approach this problem. The first is to allow enough time between successive iterations of the running method so that every node has access to the most up to date link state information. The second is to let the nodes execute the steps of the present invention despite asynchronous link state updates. It is also possible for asynchronous behavior to arise despite synchronized link state updates due to some subset of the nodes executing the steps faster than the other nodes. illustrates data regarding how the present invention may operate in the presence of asynchronous link state updates and asynchronous executions using uniform traffic on the Abilene network. In order to simulate asynchronous behavior the nodes in the network could be numbered and divided into two groups. For asynchronous link state updates at every iteration the even numbered nodes may receive link states without any delay while the odd numbered nodes may receive link states from the even numbered nodes after a fixed delay. Consequently at each execution of the method the two sets of nodes could have different views of the network link states. The fixed delay could then be varied to generate the results reported in . For asynchronous execution of an embodiment of the present invention the odd numbered nodes could be forced to execute the steps of the present invention slower than the even numbered nodes. The difference in the rate of execution was varied in order to obtain the results reported in . Different step sizes could be used to prevent oscillations in the two cases. Despite the asynchronous implementation the embodiment of the present invention still converges to within 1 of the optimal solution. Additionally there may be a steady increase in the number of iterations required by the embodiments of the present invention as the delay in propagating the link states or the difference in the rate of executing the present invention increases.

To quickly achieve multipath functionality in the network packet forwarding decisions may be transferred from the firmware to higher level software which could be easily modified via SCONE Software Component of NetFPGA . A new table may be added to the software to store the split ratios in addition to the routing table provided in the reference router implementation for the NetFPGA platform. Then a random number generator may be used in conjunction with the routing table and the split ratios table to forward traffic as needed.

Then the link state update packets are modified to be broadcast frequently enough to ensure relatively quick convergence of the method and to modify their payload to transmit the link rates. For example the link states may be set to broadcast every 250 milliseconds. The network cost function may be represented as which results in 2as the price of each link. Other components of the method such as retrieving the incoming rate into each board and the outgoing rate on each link can be easily obtained from the NetFPGA registers. Also Dijkstra s method is changed to run with the new link weights instead of hop count as it was doing in the Reference Router implementation in SCONE.

To further test the system and methods video traffic may be sent using for example a VLC Media Player as a video server from node B to node C. As described above the KKT conditions of the multi commodity flow problem are what permit focusing on shortest paths based on the price and use that to claim optimality of the method. From the KKT conditions of the MCF problem for the given cost function it is easy to see that the values of the split ratios at optimality should be 0.25 and 0.75. The evolution of the split ratios in such an embodiment as captured using SCONE which comes with the NetFPGA platform is presented in . Clearly about 25 of the traffic is sent along the longer path through Port while the rest is sent along the shorter path via Port .

In the same network embodiment illustrated in a flow resulted in a clogged link between node A and node D for about 15 seconds e.g. using the JPerf tool . The evolution of the split ratios from node B to node C when the heavy flow between node A and node D came online and then stopped is presented in . Initially increases to 1 before dropping back down to 0.75 once the large flow stops. The extra traffic that can be seen while the flow from node A to node D is in progress is because some of the traffic is routed via A B B C C D . However most of the traffic from node B to node C is clearly routed via Port .

As stated above certain embodiments of the present invention include an optimal link state hop by hop routing method. Advantageously certain embodiments of the present invention may facilitate capital savings for ISPs by reducing investments in infrastructure to keep utilization of the networks manageable by current suboptimal procedures . In addition the present invention may facilitate performance benefits for consumers.

Throughout this application certain systems and methods have been described. Certain embodiments of the systems include a computer system and certain of the method steps may be implemented by a computer system. illustrates such an exemplary computer system . One or more computer systems may carry out the methods presented herein as computer code.

Computer system includes an input output display interface connected to communication infrastructure such as a bus which forwards data such as graphics text and information from the communication infrastructure or from a frame buffer not shown to other components of the computer system . The input output display interface may be for example a keyboard touch screen joystick trackball mouse monitor speaker printer Google Glass unit web camera any other computer peripheral device or any combination thereof capable of entering and or viewing data.

Computer system includes one or more processors which may be a special purpose or a general purpose digital signal processor that processes certain information. Computer system also includes a main memory for example random access memory RAM read only memory ROM mass storage device or any combination thereof. Computer system may also include a secondary memory such as a hard disk unit a removable storage unit or any combination thereof. Computer system may also include a communication interface for example a modem a network interface such as an Ethernet card or Ethernet cable a communication port a PCMCIA slot and card wired or wireless systems such as Wi Fi Bluetooth Infrared local area networks wide area networks intranets etc.

It is contemplated that the main memory secondary memory communication interface or a combination thereof function as a computer usable storage medium otherwise referred to as a computer readable storage medium to store and or access computer software including computer instructions. Certain embodiments of a computer readable storage medium do not include any transitory signals or waves. For example computer programs or other instructions may be loaded into the computer system such as through a removable storage device for example a floppy disk ZIP disks magnetic tape portable flash drive optical disk such as a CD or DVD or Blu ray Micro Electro Mechanical Systems MEMS nanotechnological apparatus. Specifically computer software including computer instructions may be transferred from the removable storage unit or hard disc unit to the secondary memory or through the communication infrastructure to the main memory of the computer system .

Communication interface allows software instructions and data to be transferred between the computer system and external devices or external networks. Software instructions and or data transferred by the communication interface are typically in the form of signals that may be electronic electromagnetic optical or other signals capable of being sent and received by the communication interface . Signals may be sent and received using wire or cable fiber optics a phone line a cellular phone link a Radio Frequency RF link wireless link or other communication channels.

Computer programs when executed enable the computer system particularly the processor to implement the methods of the invention according to computer software including instructions.

The computer system described herein may perform any one of or any combination of the steps of any of the methods presented herein. It is also contemplated that the methods according to the invention may be performed automatically or may be invoked by some form of manual intervention.

The computer system of is provided only for the purposes of illustration such that the invention is not limited to this specific embodiment. It is appreciated that a person skilled in the relevant art knows how to program and implement the invention using any computer system.

The computer system may be a handheld device and include any small sized computer device including for example a personal digital assistant PDA smart hand held computing device cellular telephone or a laptop or netbook computer hand held console or MP3 player tablet or similar hand held computer device such as an iPad iPad Touch or iPhone .

Specifically the cloud computing system includes at least one client computer . The client computer may be any device through the use of which a distributed computing environment may be accessed to perform the methods disclosed herein for example a traditional computer portable computer mobile phone personal digital assistant tablet to name a few. The client computer includes memory such as random access memory RAM read only memory ROM mass storage device or any combination thereof. The memory functions as a computer usable storage medium otherwise referred to as a computer readable storage medium to store and or access computer software and or instructions.

The client computer also includes a communications interface for example a modem a network interface such as an Ethernet card a communications port a PCMCIA slot and card wired or wireless systems etc. The communications interface allows communication through transferred signals between the client computer and external devices including networks such as the Internet and cloud data center . Communication may be implemented using wireless or wired capability such as cable fiber optics a phone line a cellular phone link radio waves or other communication channels.

The client computer establishes communication with the Internet specifically to one or more servers to in turn establish communication with one or more cloud data centers . A cloud data center includes one or more networks managed through a cloud management system . Each network includes resource servers respectively. Servers permit access to a collection of computing resources and components that can be invoked to instantiate a virtual machine process or other resource for a limited or defined duration. For example one group of resource servers can host and serve an operating system or components thereof to deliver and instantiate a virtual machine. Another group of resource servers can accept requests to host computing cycles or processor time to supply a defined level of processing power for a virtual machine. A further group of resource servers can host and serve applications to load on an instantiation of a virtual machine such as an email client a browser application a messaging application or other applications or software.

The cloud management system can comprise a dedicated or centralized server and or other software hardware and network tools to communicate with one or more networks such as the Internet or other public or private network with all sets of resource servers . The cloud management system may be configured to query and identify the computing resources and components managed by the set of resource servers needed and available for use in the cloud data center . Specifically the cloud management system may be configured to identify the hardware resources and components such as type and amount of processing power type and amount of memory type and amount of storage type and amount of network bandwidth and the like of the set of resource servers needed and available for use in the cloud data center . Likewise the cloud management system can be configured to identify the software resources and components such as type of Operating System OS application programs and the like of the set of resource servers needed and available for use in the cloud data center .

The present invention is also directed to computer products otherwise referred to as computer program products to provide software to the cloud computing system . Computer products store software on any computer useable medium known now or in the future. Such software when executed may implement the methods according to certain embodiments of the invention. Examples of computer useable mediums include but are not limited to primary storage devices e.g. any type of random access memory secondary storage devices e.g. hard drives floppy disks CD ROMS ZIP disks tapes magnetic storage devices optical storage devices Micro Electro Mechanical Systems MEMS nanotechnological storage device etc. and communication mediums e.g. wired and wireless communications networks local area networks wide area networks intranets etc. . It is to be appreciated that the embodiments described herein may be implemented using software hardware firmware or combinations thereof.

The cloud computing system of is provided only for the purposes of illustration and does not limit the invention to this specific embodiment. It is appreciated that a person skilled in the relevant art knows how to program and implement the invention using any computer system or network architecture.

Certain embodiments of the present invention also may be implemented by utilizing software defined networks. In such embodiments the system and methods may exist on the application layer in the context of software defined networking.

While the disclosure is susceptible to various modifications and alternative forms specific exemplary embodiments of the present invention have been shown by way of example in the drawings and have been described in detail. It should be understood however that there is no intent to limit the disclosure to the particular embodiments disclosed but on the contrary the intention is to cover all modifications equivalents and alternatives falling within the scope of the disclosure as defined by the appended claims.

