---

title: Efficiently accessing web conferences from a mobile device
abstract: A technique for joining a web conference on a mobile device includes running a program on the mobile device that displays a list of web conference invitations for web conferences scheduled to be held at or near the current time, receiving a user selection of one of the listed web conference invitations, and initiating a web conference for the selected web conference invitation using a web conference client installed on the mobile device. The technique enables mobile users to join web conferences quickly and with few manual operations.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09401938&OS=09401938&RS=09401938
owner: Citrix Systems, Inc.
number: 09401938
owner_city: Fort Lauderdale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130829
---
Web conferencing software allows users to share files desktops and other data while simultaneously conducting voice communications. A person wishing to host a web conference the host operates web conferencing software to create and send conference invitations via email to intended meeting participants users . The users machines receive the invitations and place them in the users electronic calendars. The invitations include the proposed date and time of the web conference any desired details entered by the host and a URL Uniform Resource Locator to be followed e.g. clicked to join the web conference. Each user may open the invitation in the user s calendar on the user s machine and follow the URL to join the web conference at or near the designated start time. Once a user is connected to the conference the user may share his or her desktop with other conference participants and or exchange files or other data. If the user s computer has a speaker and a microphone or an audio headset the user may speak with other conference participants through the established connection using VoIP Voice Over Internet Protocol .

Web conferencing invitations also typically provide telephone numbers and access codes for computers that do not support audio communications and or that have poor network connections. Conference participants still follow the URLs in the conference invitations to exchange data but also dial in to the conferences using the provided telephone numbers. For example a user places a telephone call to the telephone number listed on the invitation and responds to user prompts to enter the access code provided. The user will thus be connected to the conference for sharing data via the URL but may also speak with other conference participants using the user s own telephone.

Users of mobile devices may employ mobile web conferencing applications for smart phones PDAs Personal Data Assistants tablet computers personal readers and other web enabled mobile devices. A user of a mobile device may join a conference substantially as described above e.g. by opening a conference invitation in a calendar of a mobile device and tapping or otherwise selecting a URL listed in the invitation to join the conference for both data and voice communication. If the user s mobile device has a slow network connection the user may use a telephone such as the device s own cellular telephone if there is one to establish voice communications with the conference.

Unfortunately users of conventional mobile web conferencing software must conduct many steps to connect to web conferences. For example a user desiring to connect to a web conference typically opens a calendar application on the mobile device navigates to the current date and time finds the web conference invitation opens the invitation and clicks the URL. If voice communication is to be conducted via telephone the user may also need to dial the telephone number listed in the invitation respond to voice prompts and enter the access code. Although these steps do not typically require a great deal of time they do require the user s careful attention. Users of mobile devices cannot always focus intently on their devices however e.g. when they are driving an automobile. What is needed therefore is a more convenient efficient and safe way for a user of a mobile device to join a web conference.

In contrast with conventional web conferencing software an improved technique for joining a web conference on a mobile device includes running a program on the mobile device that displays a list of web conference invitations for web conferences scheduled to be held at or near the current time receiving a user selection of one of the listed web conference invitations and initiating a web conference for the selected web conference invitation using a web conference client installed on the mobile device. In an example the program on the mobile device is easily accessible from a home screen of the mobile device and may be implemented as a mobile app a widget a shortcut to an application or some other readily accessible construct. In some examples the act of the user selecting one of the listed web conference invitations causes the mobile device to join the conference without requiring further user input. In various examples the web conference client is implemented as a mobile app a browser plug in or some other client software construct capable of communicating over the Internet. The improved technique thus enables mobile users to join web conferences quickly and with fewer manual operations than are required using the conventional approach. Mobile users are thus able to join web conferences with only brief attention to their devices with improvements achieved in both user convenience and safety.

Certain embodiments are directed to a method of joining web conferences on a mobile device. The method includes running a program on the mobile device to display a list of web conference invitations for web conferences scheduled to be held contemporaneously with a current time indicated by the mobile device. The method further includes receiving a user selection of a web conference invitation from the list of web conference invitations and initiating a web conference for the selected web conference invitation using a web conference client installed on the mobile device.

Other embodiments are directed to a mobile device and a computer program product. Some embodiments involve activity that is performed at a single location while other embodiments involve activity that is distributed over a computerized environment e.g. over a network .

Embodiments of the invention will now be described. It is understood that such embodiments are provided by way of example to illustrate various features and principles of the invention and that the invention hereof is broader than the specific example embodiments disclosed.

An improved technique for joining a web conference on a mobile device includes running a program on the mobile device that displays a list of web conference invitations for web conferences scheduled to be held at or near the current time receiving a user selection of one of the listed web conference invitations and initiating a web conference for the selected web conference invitation using a web conference client installed on the mobile device.

Other computing devices to N are also coupled to the conferencing server for participating in the web conference. For example the computer is coupled to the conferencing server via the data network for exchanging both data and voice using VoIP . The computer N is coupled to the conferencing server via the data network for exchanging data but uses a separate telephone N a and a wired telephone network for communicating voice. The conferencing server bridges together data and voice communications conveyed over the various networks to allow all conference participants to speak with one another and to exchange data.

It is understood that the arrangement of is merely illustrative. For example the telephone N a may itself be a VoIP based telephone such that telephone signals are conveyed over the data network . Also the mobile device may use a single network for both cell phone and data and other networks may be used besides those shown. Further any number of other computing devices may participate in the web conference including other mobile devices and as few as two devices may participate in any given web conference. Thus the environment should be regarded merely as providing an example context in which the inventive concepts hereof may be practiced but should not be regarded as limiting those concepts.

The mobile device is seen to include a touch screen which serves both as a display and as an input device a button a microphone a speaker and an audio jack . During a web conference a user of the mobile device can speak into the microphone and hear audio from others conveyed via the speaker . The user may alternatively use a headset e.g. a microphone and ear buds plugged into the audio jack or may use an independently powered Bluetooth headset.

The mobile device may be any type of mobile computing device such as a smart phone PDA Personal Data Assistant tablet computer personal reader or any other type of web enabled mobile device. In a particular example the mobile device is a smart phone running the Android operating system. However other smart phones may be used such as the iPhone Blackberry Windows phone or some other type of phone.

In operation the mobile device runs a program for initiating web conferences. The program accesses one or more calendars on or accessible by the mobile device and identifies web conference invitations stored in the calendar s for web conferences scheduled to begin at or near the current date and time. The program displays any such identified conference invitations in a list on the touch screen . A user may read the list and select a particular web conference to join e.g. by tapping on a displayed item in the list. In some examples the user may double tap on a displayed item to join the identified conference directly. The user may alternatively single tap on a displayed item to obtain information about the web conference invitation without joining the conference.

The user may establish settings of the program to select calendars to include when searching for contemporaneous web conferences. The user may also establish a setting for using either VoIP or a cellular telephone if the mobile device has a cellular telephone for conveying voice communications during web conferences.

In an example the above described program is implemented as a home screen widget. A home screen widget serves as a particularly convenient form in which to implement the program as it is readily accessible from the user s home screen and can run without occupying the entire display of the touch screen . It is not required that the program be implemented as a home screen widget however. Alternatively the program may be implemented as some other type of widget as a mobile application i.e. an app a script or as some other program construct.

The mobile device is further seen to include various interfaces such as a Wi Fi interface a Bluetooth interface a cellular telephone interface and a cellular data interface . A bus interconnects the various components of the computerized apparatus and provides a vehicle for communicating among such elements. In various examples the bus is implemented as a system bus or as multiple distinct busses each serving a respective sub system of the mobile device and having interconnections to the others. It is understood that certain elements are omitted from for simplicity such as circuitry for interfacing analog components and to the bus and that those skilled in the art could readily reproduce such missing elements.

The memory includes various software constructs such as a web conference program the aforementioned program a web conference client a calendar app a set of calendar databases a cell phone API application programming interface and a recent calls list . Although certain software constructs are specifically shown and described it is understood that the memory typically includes many other software constructs which are not shown such as an operating system and various applications processes services and the like.

In an example the web conference client is a mobile app for joining and conducting web conferences such as the GoToMeeting mobile app available from Citrix Systems Inc. of Santa Clara Calif. Alternatively the web conference client is a plug in or add on that works in conjunction with a web browser not shown running on the mobile device . The web conference client may be operated in the conventional manner i.e. by joining web conferences in response to the user selecting a web conference invitations from the user s calendar. In the embodiments disclosed herein however the web conference client also operates to join conferences in response to the user selecting web conference invitations from lists of web conference invitations displayed by the web conference program .

The web conference program communicates with the set of calendar databases to generate the list of contemporaneous web conferences. In some variants the set of calendar databases include multiple distinct databases such as one calendar database for the user s Gmail account another calendar database for the user s POP server e.g. work calendar and other calendar databases for other user calendars. In other variants the set of calendar databases combine calendar entries for any number of user calendars together in a single calendar database. The calendar database or databases may be implemented for example in one or more Java HashMap containers. The calendar database s may be stored in the memory as shown may be stored outside the mobile device e.g. on a remote server to which the mobile device connects or in the form of some combination of local and remote calendar databases.

In an example the set of calendar databases store calendar events in the form of database records. To generate the list of contemporaneous web conferences the web conference program queries the set of calendar databases to identify any calendar events scheduled to be conducted within a specified time range proximate to the current time that include a URL Uniform Resource Locator having a predetermined text pattern indicative of a web conference link. In a particular example the web conference program specifies a query to identify web conference events scheduled to begin in a time range extending from two hours prior to the current time to eight hours after the current time. The web conference program may identify web conference invitations as calendar events that include a predetermined text pattern such as www3.gotomeeting.com join. The web conference program then displays on the touch screen calendar events that satisfy the query e.g. in ascending order based on start time.

The web conference program may also communicate with the cell phone API 238. For example the web conference program may identify a telephone number in a web conference invitation and direct the cell phone API 238 to dial the identified telephone number to join a web conference. The web conference program may further direct the cell phone API 238 to detect multiple states of the cellular telephone on the mobile device and to enter an access code for a web conference as specified in the web conference invitation in response to the cellular telephone assuming a connected state. The web conference program may also communicate with the cell phone API 238when the user manually selects a telephone number displayed on the recent calls list . In this situation the cell phone API is configured to alert the web conference program that a telephone number from the recent calls list has been selected. The web conference program checks whether the selected telephone number is associated with a contemporaneous web conference invitation. If so the web conference program takes actions to rejoin the associated web conference e.g. by directing the cell phone API to dial the selected number enter the access code for the associated web conference once a connected cell phone state is detected and follow the URL for the associated web conference to reestablish data communication.

The settings display also includes checkboxes to for selecting calendars to be included when querying the calendar databases . In an example the mobile device is configured to access multiple calendars e.g. US Holidays Personal Calendar Work Calendar Home Outlook etc. . The user may check the checkboxes corresponding to the calendars to include the respective calendars in queries that the web conference program runs to generate the lists of contemporaneous web conferences or may leave certain of the calendars unchecked to exclude them. The particular calendars displayed on the settings display reflect the calendars configured on the mobile device and thus tend to vary from device to device with different calendars displayed and a greater or fewer number of calendars displayed and checkboxes provided based on the configuration of the particular device.

In an example the mobile device supports multiple instances of the web conference program . For example the mobile device can display multiple home screen widgets each widget running as a different instance of the web conference program . The different instances may be provided with different settings. Thus one instance of the web conference program may include all calendars configured on the mobile device whereas another instance may include fewer calendars e.g. only the Work Calendar . Providing multiple instances of the web conference program allows users to easily segregate web conferences pertaining to different contexts e.g. one for personal use and another for work use . The settings for each instance of the web conference program are preferably persistent on a per instance basis meaning that once they are established for any particular instance the settings remain in place for that instance until the user changes them.

The display includes an element showing the active calendars i.e. the calendars selected for the current instance of the web conference program in the settings display . In this case all calendars have been selected. If fewer than all calendars have been selected the element may list the selected calendars individually.

The display also includes a list of contemporaneous web conferences i.e. the list of web conference invitations obtained by querying the selected calendars for web conference invitations scheduled to occur near the current time. Here three invitations have been found listed as list items through . Each of the list items presents text which describes the respective invitation. For example the text displayed for each invitation reflects the start time of the web conference and a topic or subject or portion thereof that the host provided when creating the invitation. Each of the list items is an active element which when tapped by the user causes an action to be taken. For example when the user single taps one of the list items the web conference program causes detailed information pertaining to the corresponding invitation to be displayed. When the user double taps one of the list items the mobile device directly initiates the web conference identified by the invitation. In an example the web conference program renders the list items in a form that is similar to the form in which the calendar app on the mobile device renders web conference events such that double tapping a list item has the same effect as double tapping an invitation in the calendar app . The mobile device internally associates web conference invitations with the web conference client e.g. when the web conference client is installed on the mobile device or during a disambiguation step and dispatches any double tapped invitation regardless of whether it appears on the list or in the calendar app to the web conferencing client . The web conference client automatically starts the web conference i.e. by following a URL in the invitation. If the checkbox Dial Automatically has been selected the web conference client uses the cell phone of the mobile device for conveying audio during the web conference. Otherwise the web conference client uses VoIP.

In an example the web conference program updates the list of contemporaneous web conferences e.g. by querying the set of calendars on a regular basis such as once per minute to ensure that the display remains current. In some examples the web conference program changes the color of a displayed list item one of to alert the user that the conference is about to begin or has recently begun. For example the web conference program may turn a list item green for a period of time starting 10 minutes before the conference is scheduled to begin and ending 30 minutes later. The web conference program may use other cues such as turning a list item red to indicate that the user is late for a scheduled conference by causing the item to flash or by making an audible sound when a conference is schedule to begin for example.

The user may tap a Join button on the display to join the displayed conference. If the checkbox is set the mobile device follows the URL to establish data communication and invokes the cell phone API 238 to dial the call in number detect various phone states and enter the access code once a connected state is established. If the checkbox is unchecked the mobile device follows the URL to establish both data communication and voice communication with voice communication handled through VoIP.

Prior to joining the conference the user may tap a Read button on the display to invoke a text to speech operation and allow the user to hear the invitation details or some subset thereof played through the speaker or through a headset . The user can then decide whether to join the conference based on what the user hears. The text to speech option thus allows the user to make a decision about whether to join a conference without having to visually read the invitation and suffer distraction when driving or engaging in some other activity where reading text visually is inconvenient or unsafe.

The user may also tap a Cancel button to close the invitation. For example if the user decides that the user does not wish to join the conference the user may cancel out and return to a previous screen typically the home screen .

In one example the web conference program is the software construct that displays the screen shot and performs actions in response to the buttons and . For example the web conference program obtains the web conference invitation from a corresponding calendar entry and displays the invitation s contents. When the user taps the Join button the web conference program launches the invitation which the mobile device dispatches to the web conference client substantially as described above in connection with the double tap operation performed on one of the list items . When the user taps the Read button the web conference program submits the text of the invitation or a portion thereof to a text to speech service running on the mobile device which then performs the text to speech operation. Also when the user taps the Cancel button the web conference program closes the screen and allows focus to return to the preceding screen.

In another example the calendar app running on the mobile device displays the screen shot . For example in response to the user single tapping one of the list items the web conference program opens the corresponding web conference invitation in the calendar app . The user may then read the invitation and join the conference in the usual manner i.e. by tapping the URL . It should be noted that the buttons and may not be available if the calendar app is used to display the invitation i.e. the buttons will be displayed according to this example only if the calendar app supports the buttons and when displaying web conference invitations.

It has been observed that mobile devices can drop cell phone calls when users enter areas with no cell phone reception. For example a user who joined a web conference with the invitation displayed in using the device s cell phone might lose the call after driving into a tunnel. Rather than rejoining the conference in the usual way or even by selecting an item from the list the user can instead select the dropped call shown here as call from the recent calls list . In response to selecting the call the web conference program detects that a telephone number has been selected from the recent calls list and tests whether the telephone number has recently been used in connection with a web conference. If it has the web conference program acts to reestablish a voice audio connection by directing the cell phone API 238 to dial the selected telephone number and enter the access code for the web conference when a connected state is detected. If the connection to the conferencing server via the URL has also been dropped the web conference program may follow the URL to reestablish the connection. Thus the user may reconnect to the conference through the simple act of selecting the telephone number from the recent calls list . This process is made even simpler by the fact that the mobile device may automatically display the recent calls list whenever a call is dropped. Thus no screen navigation may be required and the user may simply select the dropped call from the already displayed screen to rejoin the conference.

The web conference program may use a variety of techniques to test whether a selected call from the recent calls list has recently been used in connection with a web conference. According to one such technique when the web conference program queries the set of calendars to generate the list the web conference program also builds a data structure that includes for each web conference invitation returned from the query the subject the message the URL the dial in number and the access code alternatively only a subset of these items are stored . The web conference program updates the data structure each time a query is performed to reflect current contemporaneous web conference invitations. Thus old invitations drop out of the data structure and new ones are added in the same manner as old invitations drop off and are added to the list over time. When the web conference program detects that the user has selected a call from the recent calls list the web conference program searches the data structure for the selected telephone number. If the number is found the web conference program performs the above actions of directing the cell phone API 238 to dial the telephone number enter the access code in the data structure associated with the telephone number and resubmit the URL associated with the telephone number if the connection to the conferencing server has been dropped. If the number is not found in the data structure the number is redialed but no further action is taken to rejoin a conference as the data structure does not associate any conference with the selected telephone number.

At step a user selection is received of a web conference invitation from the list of web conference invitations. For example the user taps on one of the web conference invitations and the web conference program receives the user selection.

At step a web conference is initiated for the selected web conference invitation using a web conference client installed on the mobile device. For example in response to the user double tapping one of the web conference invitations displayed on the list the mobile device directs the web conference client to join the web conference specified in the selected invitation i.e. by following the URL and if the cell phone is used dialing the call in number and entering the access code . In response to the user single tapping one of the web conference invitations displayed on the list the web conference program working independently or through the calendar app opens the invitation for viewing as shown in and allows the user to review the invitation before tapping a Join button . In response to the user tapping the button the web conference client operates to join the conference specified in the displayed invitation.

At step a recent calls list is displayed on the mobile device. For example after a cell phone call carrying audio for a web conference is dropped the mobile device displays the recent calls list as shown in .

At step a selection of a telephone number listed on the recent calls list is received from the user. For example the user taps on a telephone number in the recent calls list and the mobile device receives the user action.

At step in response to receiving the selection from the recent calls list a number of acts are performed including i confirming that the selected telephone number has recently been used for conducting a web conference ii automatically dialing the selected telephone number selected from the recent call list and iii automatically entering an access code specified for use with the selected telephone number to reestablish a voice audio connection with the web conference. In an example the mobile device performs these acts and may perform additional acts as well including following the URL to reestablish data communication with the web conference. In confirming that the selected telephone number has recently been used for conducting a web conference the web conference program may search the above described data structure for the selected telephone number. If the selected telephone number is found the web conference program retrieves the corresponding access code and optionally the URL which the mobile device employs along with the selected telephone number in rejoining the conference.

An improved technique has been described for joining a web conference on a mobile device. The technique includes running a program on the mobile device that displays a list of web conference invitations for web conferences scheduled to be held at or near the current time receiving a user selection of one of the listed web conference invitations and initiating a web conference for the selected web conference invitation using a web conference client installed on the mobile device . The improved technique enables mobile users to join web conferences quickly and with fewer manual operations than are required using the conventional approach. Mobile users are thus able to join web conferences with only brief attention to their devices with improvements achieved in both user convenience and safety.

Having described certain embodiments numerous alternative embodiments or variations can be made. For example the web conference program has been described for listing contemporaneous web conference invitations and directing the web conference client to initiate a web conference in response to a user selecting one of the listed invitations. More generally however the web conference program can be regarded as a dispatch program for querying calendar entries for contemporaneous events listing the events and receiving a selection of an event for further processing. Thus although the implementation hereof is for selecting web conference invitations other embodiments may be constructed for selecting other calendar events.

Also although web conferences are shown and described as exchanging both data and voice it is understood that web conferences can be conducted in which only data is exchanged e.g. via file sharing screen sharing etc. or in which only voice is exchanged e.g. via VoIP or cell phone . Thus the invention hereof does not require that web conferences exchange both data and voice. Further web conferences may also exchange video e.g. for conducting face to face video chat during the course of a web conference. Although the embodiments hereof do not require video neither do they exclude video which may be used in web conferences consistently with the teachings hereof.

Further although features are shown and described with reference to particular embodiments hereof such features may be included and hereby are included in any of the disclosed embodiments and their variants. Thus it is understood that features disclosed in connection with any embodiment are included as variants of any other embodiment.

Further still the improvement or portions thereof may be embodied as a non transient computer readable storage medium such as a magnetic disk magnetic tape compact disk DVD optical disk flash memory Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC Field Programmable Gate Array FPGA and the like shown by way of example as media and in . Multiple computer readable media may be used. The medium or media may be encoded with instructions which when executed on one or more computers or other processors perform methods that implement the various processes described herein. Such medium or media may be considered an article of manufacture or a machine and may be transportable from one machine to another.

As used throughout this document the words comprising including and having are intended to set forth certain items steps elements or aspects of something in an open ended fashion. Also as used herein and unless a specific statement is made to the contrary the word set means one or more of something. Although certain embodiments are disclosed herein it is understood that these are provided by way of example only and the invention is not limited to these particular embodiments. Those skilled in the art will therefore understand that various changes in form and detail may be made to the embodiments disclosed herein without departing from the scope of the invention.

