---

title: Low voltage write speed bitcell
abstract: In low power CPUs, the best way to reduce power is to reduce supply voltage. Most low voltage memory arrays use an 8T cell, which has read stability immunity, in order to operate at low voltages. An embodiment of the disclosure determines when a write wordline (WWL) rises. If the determination shows that the WWL has risen, at least one of the plurality of p-channel field effect transistors (pFETS) is disconnected from a voltage supply, and the at least one plurality of n-channel field effect transistors (nFET) passgate transistors are opened.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09093125&OS=09093125&RS=09093125
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 09093125
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130122
---
The present Application for Patent claims priority to Provisional Application No. 61 589 570 entitled IMPROVED LOW VOLTAGE WRITE SPEED BITCELL filed Jan. 23 2012 and assigned to the assignee hereof and hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein.

This disclosure relates to improving the performance of memories especially for low voltage applications. More particularly the performance improvement of low voltage write speed bitcells is disclosed as well as the improvements in eight transistor 8T bitcells.

Manufacturers of electrical devices such as computers continue to strive to make these devices more efficient. One way to make these devices more efficient is to lower the operating voltage of the device. Hence many of these devices utilize low voltage processors. Many low voltage processors can operate with a supply voltage of less than one volt. Such low voltage operation allows a device such as a computer to save significant power and run on battery power for extended periods of time. Furthermore with the advent of multi core processors power conservation has become more important for devices such as laptop computers.

New manufacturing technologies such as technologies that can manufacture integrated circuit components that are smaller than 65 nm have created many additional technological challenges for designers of low voltage systems. One such challenge is related to higher intrinsic device variations associated with sub 65 nm manufacturing technology such as variations in device leakage Le and threshold voltages Vt . Sensitivity of circuit parameters such as device switching at such low voltages due to manufacturing defects is another challenge for designers.

Generally the minimum operating voltage Vcc min of a processor is limited by a minimum voltage that is required by memory systems in order to read from and write to memory cells. It can be appreciated that the amount of high performance data storage i.e. memory cells being incorporated with processors is ever increasing. Low voltage sub 65 nm processors that have low voltage high performance memory typically have a significant yield loss during the testing and burn in procedure. These lower yields have made manufacturers of processors reconsider if lower voltages are economically feasible and what voltage levels are economically practical. Hence there has been a trend to design and operate current processors at higher voltages than previous processors in an effort to provide an improved cost performance trade off because of high performance memory problems. It can be appreciated that manufacturers are investing in alternate circuit topologies to the conventional memory structures that can operate at lower voltages and can be manufactured with higher yields.

While reducing the voltage potential of a power supply powering internal IC devices can be beneficial to IC device reliability and power consumption at the circuit board or system level the IC still may be coupled to components operating with higher power supply voltages. In that case the IC may operate with two or more power supplies. Each power supply can provide a different voltage potential to the IC. Typically one or more low voltage power supplies can be provided to power CMOS devices that drive internal circuits of the IC. One or more high voltage power supplies can be provided to power CMOS devices that receive signals from and or send signals to circuits external to the IC. For example an IC can be provided with a 1.3V power supply for internal circuits and a 3.3V power supply for devices coupled to circuits external to the IC.

Circuits powered by power supplies with differing voltage potentials can output signals with different voltage ranges. For example one digital circuit powered by a 1.8V power supply can output a signal that varies between 0 1.8V while another digital circuit powered by a 3.3V power supply may output a signal that varies between 0 3.3V. The difference in signal levels between the two digital circuits can create problems at any interface between the two digital circuits.

For example consider an interface where a CMOS inverter provides a maximum input voltage of 1.8V to a CMOS inverter operating at 3.3V. The 1.8V input typically cannot disable a pull up P type field effect transistor pFET device within the CMOS inverter as 1.5V of gate terminal to source terminal voltage i.e. 1.8V 3.3V is being applied to the pFET device. A voltage of 1.5V however is sufficient to enable the pFET device. With 1.8V applied to the input of the 3.3V CMOS inverter both the pull up pFET device and a pull down nFET device of the 3.3V CMOS inverter can be enabled simultaneously. In that case the 3.3V CMOS inverter has a closed current path from the 3.3V power supply to ground when receiving a static input high of 1.8V. As such the 3.3V CMOS inverter unnecessarily consumes power when in a static state.

In low power central processing units CPUs one way to reduce power is to reduce the supply voltage. In order to operate at low voltages most low voltage memory arrays use an 8T cell which provides read stability immunity.

However as supply voltage is decreased the decrease in performance is not linear. It becomes exponential as the supply is reduced nearer the Vt of the highest Vt devices which are typically found in memory arrays for leakage control reasons. In an 8T cell the write speed limits frequency at low voltage and the various circuits and proposed embodiments disclosed herein solves and addresses many of these issues.

The disclosure relates to improving the use and application of low voltage memory arrays in low voltage applications.

One exemplary embodiment discloses an apparatus comprising a bitcell comprising a first pFET having a source and a drain a second pFET having a source and a drain a first passgate transistor having a first terminal and a second terminal connected to the drain of the first pFET a second passgate transistor having a first terminal and a second terminal connected to the drain of the second pFET a driver having an output port connected to the first terminals of the first and second passgate transistors and a header pFET having a gate connected to the output port of the driver and having a drain connected to the source of the first pFET and to the source of the second pFET wherein the header pFET is configured to turn ON when the passgate transistors are OFF and turn OFF when the passgate transistors are ON. The apparatus further comprises a first common node and a second common node wherein the first common node comprises a true bitline and the second common node comprises a complementary bitline wherein the first common node is operatively configured to connect to the second terminal of the first passgate transistor and the second common node is configured to connect to the second terminal of the second passgate transistor wherein the first common node and the second common node are driven to complementary logic voltages when performing a write operation on the bitcell and wherein when the driver output is logic value HIGH the header pFET turns OFF and causes the first pFET and second pFET to turn OFF. The apparatus further comprises a third pFET comprising a gate wherein the gate is held LOW the third pFET configured to be connected in parallel to the header pFET wherein the header pFET is configured to turn ON when the passgate transistors are OFF and turn OFF when the passgate transistors are ON the apparatus further comprises a first common node and a second common node wherein the first common node comprises a true bitline and the second common node comprises a complementary bitline wherein the first common node is operatively configured to connect to the second terminal of first passgate transistor and the second common node is operatively configured to connect to the second terminal of the second passgate transistor and wherein the first common node and the second common node are driven to complementary logic voltages when performing a write operation on the bitcell.

Yet another exemplary embodiment discloses an apparatus comprising a bitcell comprising a first pFET having a source and a drain a second pFET having a source and a drain a first passgate transistor having a first terminal and a second terminal connected to the drain of the first pFET a second passgate transistor having a first terminal and a second terminal connected to the drain of the second pFET a driver having an input port and having an output port connected to the first terminals of the first and second passgate transistors a header pFET having a gate connected to the input port of the driver and having a drain connected to the source of the first pFET and to the source of the second pFET wherein the header pFET is configured to turn ON when the passgate transistors are OFF and turn OFF when the passgate transistors are ON. The apparatus further comprises a first common node and a second common node wherein the first common node comprises a true bitline and the second common node comprises a complementary bitline wherein the first common node is operatively configured to connect to the first terminal of the first passgate transistor and the second common node is configured to connect to the first terminal of the second passgate transistor wherein the first common node and second common node are driven to complementary logic voltages when performing a write operation on the bitcell.

In yet another exemplary embodiment an apparatus is disclosed comprising a bitcell comprising a first nFET having a source and a drain a second nFET having a source and a drain a first passgate transistor having a first terminal and a second terminal connected to the drain of the first nFET a second passgate transistor having a first terminal and a second terminal connected to the drain of the second nFET a driver having an output port connected to the first terminals of the first and second passgate transistors and a footer nFET having a gate coupled to an input port of the driver and configured to receive a voltage complementary to the voltage of the output port of the driver and having a drain connected to the source of the first nFET and the source of the second nFET. The apparatus further comprises a first pFET having a source and a drain wherein the drain is connected to the terminal of the first passgate transistor and a second pFET having a source and a drain wherein the drain is connected to the terminal of the second passgate transistor. The apparatus further comprises a header pFET having a gate connected to the output port of the driver and further having a drain connected to the source of the first pFET and to the source of the second pFET wherein the header pFET is configured to turn ON when the passgate transistors are turned OFF and turn OFF when the passgate transistors are turned ON and wherein the footer nFET is configured to turn ON when the passgate transistors are turned OFF and turn OFF when the passgate transistors are turned ON. The apparatus further comprises a third pFET comprising a gate wherein the gate is held LOW the third pFET configured to be connected in parallel to the header pFET and a third nFET comprising a gate wherein the gate is connected to a supply rail the third nFET configured to be connected in parallel to the footer nFET. The apparatus further comprises a first common node and a second common node wherein the first common node comprises a true bitline and the second common node comprises a complementary bitline wherein the first common node is operatively configured to connect to the second terminal of first passgate transistor and the second common node is operatively configured to connect to the second terminal of the second passgate transistor wherein the first common node and the second common node are driven to complementary logic voltages when performing a store operation on the bitcell and wherein when the driver output is logic value HIGH the header pFET turns OFF further causing the first pFET and second nFET to turn OFF.

Yet another exemplary embodiment discloses a method comprising providing a signal to a first and a second pass transistors to write to a bitcell the bitcell comprising a first pFET having a source and a drain and a second pFET having a source and a drain and providing a second signal to a gate of a header pFET wherein the header pFET comprises a drain connected to the sources of first and second pFETs wherein providing second signal to the gate of the header pFET further includes turning OFF the first and second pFETs during a writing operation wherein the second signal lags the first signal.

Yet another exemplary embodiment discloses a method comprising providing a signal to a first and a second pass transistors to write to a bitcell the bitcell comprising a first nFET having a source and a drain and a second nFET having a source and a drain and providing a second signal to a gate of a footer nFET wherein the footer nFET comprises a drain connected to the sources of first and second nFETs wherein providing second signal to the gate of the footer nFET further includes turning OFF the first and second nFETs during a writing operation.

Yet another exemplary embodiment discloses an apparatus comprising means for providing a signal to a first and a second pass transistors to write to a bitcell the bitcell comprising a first nFET having a source and a drain and a second nFET having a source and a drain and means for providing a second signal to a gate of a footer nFET wherein the footer nFET comprises a drain connected to the sources of first and second nFETs wherein providing second signal to the gate of the footer nFET further comprises means for turning OFF the first and second nFETs during a writing operation.

Yet another exemplary embodiment discloses an apparatus comprising means for providing a signal to a first and a second pass transistors to write to a bitcell the bitcell comprising a first nFET having a source and a drain and a second nFET having a source and a drain and means for providing a second signal to a gate of a footer nFET wherein the footer nFET comprises a drain connected to the sources of first and second nFETs wherein providing second signal to the gate of the footer nFET further includes means for turning OFF the first and second nFETs during a writing operation.

Aspects of the invention are disclosed in the following description and related drawings directed to specific embodiments of the invention. Alternate embodiments may be devised without departing from the scope of the invention. Additionally well known elements of the invention will not be described in detail or will be omitted so as not to obscure the relevant details of the invention.

The word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any embodiment described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments. Likewise the term embodiments of the invention does not require that all embodiments of the invention include the discussed feature advantage or mode of operation.

In the description herein the term write is used synonymously with store operations as is known in the art. Likewise the term read is used synonymously with load. Further in the description references may be made to read write operations pertaining to cache blocks which may refer to a granularity less than that of an entire cache line. However it will be understood that such references are merely for illustrative purposes and shall not be construed as limiting the scope of the embodiments. For example disclosed techniques may be easily extended to operations on any other granularity as applicable such as a cache word cache line etc. Further it will also be understood that the referenced cache block may comprise data or instructions even though the description may be provided in terms of write read operations of data alone. Additionally references to lower levels of memory hierarchy may include backing storage elements beyond local or first level L1 caches which may be associated with processors or processing elements. For example references to lower levels of memory hierarchy herein may refer to second level L2 caches main memory and one or more levels of memory structures which may be present between L2 caches and main memory.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of embodiments of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises comprising includes and or including when used herein specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

Further many embodiments are described in terms of sequences of actions to be performed by for example elements of a computing device. It will be recognized that various actions described herein can be performed by specific circuits e.g. application specific integrated circuits ASICs by program instructions being executed by one or more processors or by a combination of both. Additionally these sequence of actions described herein can be considered to be embodied entirely within any form of computer readable storage medium having stored therein a corresponding set of computer instructions that upon execution would cause an associated processor to perform the functionality described herein. Thus the various aspects of the invention may be embodied in a number of different forms all of which have been contemplated to be within the scope of the claimed subject matter. In addition for each of the embodiments described herein the corresponding form of any such embodiments may be described herein as for example logic configured to perform the described action.

It will be appreciated that configured logic or logic configured to are not limited to specific logic gates or elements but generally refer to the ability to perform the functionality described herein either via hardware or a combination of hardware and software . Thus the configured logics or logic configured to are not necessarily implemented as logic gates or logic elements despite sharing the word logic. Other interactions or cooperation between the logic in the various blocks will become clear to one of ordinary skill in the art from a review of the embodiments described below in more detail.

Referring to a system that includes a UE here a wireless device such as a cellular telephone which has a platform that can receive and execute software applications data and or commands transmitted from a radio access network RAN that may ultimately come from core network the Internet and or other remote servers and networks. Platform can include transceiver operably coupled to an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other processor microprocessor logic circuit or other data processing device. ASIC or other processor executes the application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident programs in memory of the wireless device. Memory can be comprised of read only or random access memory RAM and ROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. Platform also can include local database that can hold applications not actively used in memory . Local database is typically a flash memory cell but can be any secondary storage device as known in the art such as magnetic media EEPROM optical media tape soft or hard disk or the like. Internal platform components can also be operably coupled to external devices such as antenna display push to talk button and keypad among other components as is known in the art.

Accordingly an embodiment of the disclosure can include a UE including the ability to perform the functions described herein. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art the various logic elements can be embodied in discrete elements software modules executed on a processor or any combination of software and hardware to achieve the functionality disclosed herein. For example ASIC memory API and local database may all be used cooperatively to load store and execute the various functions disclosed herein and thus the logic to perform these functions may be distributed over various elements. Alternatively the functionality could be incorporated into one discrete component. Therefore the features of UE in are to be considered merely illustrative and the invention is not limited to the illustrated features or arrangement.

The wireless communication between UE and the RAN can be based on different technologies such as code division multiple access CDMA W CDMA time division multiple access TDMA frequency division multiple access FDMA Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing OFDM Global System for Mobile Communications GSM 3GPP Long Term Evolution LTE or other protocols that may be used in a wireless communications network or a data communications network. Accordingly the illustrations provided herein are not intended to limit the embodiments of the invention and are merely to aid in the description of aspects of embodiments of the invention.

Processor which executes instructions from at least two instruction sets in different instruction set operating modes additionally includes a debug circuit operative to compare upon the execution of each instruction at least a predetermined target instruction set operating mode to the current instruction set operating mode and to provide an indication of a match between the two. Debug circuit is described in greater detail below.

Pipeline fetches instructions from an instruction cache I cache with memory address translation and permissions managed by an Instruction side Translation Lookaside Buffer ITLB . Data is accessed from a data cache D cache with memory address translation and permissions managed by a main Translation Lookaside Buffer TLB . In various embodiments ITLB may comprise a copy of part of TLB . Alternatively ITLB and TLB may be integrated. Similarly in various embodiments of processor I cache and D cache may be integrated or unified. Further I cache and D cache may be L1 caches. Misses in I cache and or D cache cause an access to main off chip memory by a memory interface . Memory interface may be a master input to a bus interconnect implementing a shared bus to one or more memory devices that may incorporate the improved low voltage write speed in accordance with one exemplary embodiment of the disclosure. Additional master devices not shown may additionally connect to bus interconnect .

Processor may include input output I O interface which may be a master device on a peripheral bus across which I O interface may access various peripheral devices via bus . Those of skill in the art will recognize that numerous variations of processor are possible. For example processor may include a second level L2 cache for either or both I and D caches . In addition one or more of the functional blocks depicted in processor may be omitted from a particular embodiment. Other functional blocks that may reside in processor such as a JTAG controller instruction pre decoder branch target address cache and the like are not germane to a description of the present invention and are omitted for clarity.

Those of skill in the art will appreciate that information and signals may be represented using any of a variety of different technologies and techniques. For example data instructions commands information signals bits symbols and chips that may be referenced throughout the above description may be represented by voltages currents electromagnetic waves magnetic fields or particles optical fields or particles or any combination thereof.

In low power CPUs one of the common ways to reduce power is to reduce supply voltage VDD . As VDD is scaled down the pFETs strength is degraded more heavily than nFETs strength because p type devices have higher threshold voltage Vt due to hole versus electron mobility resulting in drain current Id being non linear as supply voltage approaches Vt. The supply voltage may be connected to a supply rail not shown . Furthermore as supply voltage is decreased the decrease in performance is not linear and it becomes exponential as the supply is reduced nearer to Vt of the highest Vt devices which are typically found in memory arrays for leakage control reasons.

In the bitcell these operating characteristics have ramifications for both data retention and write speed. As VDD approaches Vt the hold Signal Noise Margin SNM which is the data retention figure of merit for Static Random Access Memory SRAM is degraded because the voltage scale down causes the leakage current of the nFET to become comparable to the saturation current of the pFET. This degradation also adversely impacts the write speed because at low voltage the pFETs have to pull up the input to HIGH as the nFETs only get a very weak HIGH. Since the ratio of nFETs pFETs is usually 2 3 the pFETs tend to be very weak and this speed will dictate the minimum write time at low voltage the minimum time WWL needs to be HIGH in order to write the cell .

The most straightforward way to improve the data retention and write speed with regard to weak pFETs at low voltage is to upsize or use a lower Vt device. However this is not an optimal solution since it will make the cell s writability degrade at all voltages more contention from the pFET means the nFET will have a harder time flipping the node and this leads to increased leakage.

This approach eliminates the nFET pFET contention that happens during write operations because during write operations of the cell header pFET is effectively turned OFF causing pFETS and to be turned OFF as well. After write operations take place header pFET and pFETS and turn ON and their strength can be strong enough to mitigate retention issues and increase the transition speed by which the side of the cell is being written to 1. The side in this instance is the WBL side wherein the opposite side is N WBL side. For example in this case WBL writes to node T while N WBL writes to node C.

The addition of a pFET as a bitcell header controlled by WWL illustrates that when WWL rises the pFETS and are disconnected from the supply voltage causing the nFET passgate transistors and to open. As a result there is very little contention which leads to having internal nodes T or C to pull down very fast. When WWL goes to LOW header pFET and pFETs and are turned ON and the appropriate side is snapped up to VDD. For example the appropriate side would be the side which was connected to VDD via the nFET passgate transistors and . Therefore if WBL is HIGH and N WBL is LOW the write node T is pulled up to VDD. Additionally when WWL is HIGH header pFET is turned OFF which allows for the decoupling between pFET and nFET leading to reduced contention as discussed above wherein for example nFET is no longer contending with pFET to hold pFET to a value HIGH for longer periods of time.

Circuit also includes a bitcell that includes a first pFET having a source and a drain a second pFET having a source and a drain a first passgate transistor having a first terminal and a second terminal connected to the drain of the first pFET a second passgate transistor having a first terminal and a second terminal connected to the drain of the second pFET . Circuit further includes a driver having an output port WWL connected to the first terminals of the first and second passgate transistors and and a header pFET having a gate connected to the output port WWL of the driver and having a drain connected to the source of the first pFET and to the source of the second pFET . Header pFET is configured to turn ON when the passgate transistors and are OFF and turn OFF when the passgate transistors and are ON. Circuit further includes a first common node T and a second common node C wherein node T comprises a true bitline and node C comprises a complementary bitline and wherein node T is operatively configured to connect to the second terminal of the first passgate transistor and node C is configured to connect to the second terminal of the second passgate transistor . Additionally node T and node C may be configured to be driven to complementary logic voltages when performing a write operation on the bitcell. When the driver output port WWL is logic value HIGH the header pFET turns OFF and causes the first pFET and second pFET to turn OFF. Circuit further comprises a pFET as an alternative embodiment and will be discussed in below.

To allow very fast write speed and good data retention without compromising write noise margins a pFET header to each bitcell may be incorporated as illustrated above. Alternatively an nFET footer circuit may also be incorporated as a viable alternative to achieve the same objectives or even a more robust combination of a pFET header and nFET footer together in one circuit as will be discussed further below. Each of these solutions decouples the nFET pFET contention issue with the retention pFET speed issue such that 2 3 NP ratios are no longer needed and therefore either nFETS can be sized down or pFETS sized up. Since the pFET leakage path is now through a series of transistors using low Vt is also viable.

To ensure that noise issues in the circuit do not affect the writing of the bitcell and that the correct wordline is written WWL may be delayed to the nFET passgate transistors and such that once the nFET passgate transistors turn on the pFET header is completely OFF as a result of the rise of WWL E . This feature further eliminates the contention which results in increased writability . When WWL goes back high the pFET header first turns ON resulting in quickly charging up node T to a HIGH before the nFET passgate transistors are turned OFF which further improves the circuit noise immunity. With regards to immunity it can be seen from the first embodiment illustrated in that when WWL is transitioning to a LOW there is a brief time wherein neither the passgate transistor nor the pFET header are fully ON. Such a scenario illustrates that the internal nodes T and C do not have a real path to power and therefore if a noise event happens thereby coupling noise to an internal net happens it could flip the node in theory. To further guard against such possible vulnerabilities the embodiment illustrated in which embodies having pFET header control earlier than WWL being HIGH ensures that there is a good path to VDD to reject noise events. Passgate transistors may be nFETs pFETs or a combination thereof such that when the passgate transistors are ON the header pFET is OFF.

Conversely in line illustrates that the new bitcell has little problem with the pull down operation because the bitcell decouples the write of each side of the bitcell into opposite phases of the WWL. The term bitcell could indicate a bitcell that includes a header pFET such as header pFET or can also include only the pFET nFET inverter circuit along with the passgates in designs that utilize a single pFET header that is shared across multiple cells up to the entire row for example as illustrated in and . This is achieved because each bitcell on a row could have the same control signal so the pFET header could be shared across the row as opposed to having a single pFET header for each bitcell.

Looking at node C it can be seen that the fast rise time of node C illustrates a fast write operation. For example a conventional bitcell write shown in at low voltage and high speed results in a slow transition at node C as a result of a drop in the wordline pulse . However looking at the same drop in the wordline pulse the response at node C can be illustrated as a much faster transition time. A faster transition time can also be illustrated by looking at node T wherein the voltage is dropped to zero at a faster rate than before at node T wherein the voltage does not remain at zero. Therefore this proposed bitcell provides a solution to improved write speed in low voltage applications.

In another embodiment and as discussed above and illustrate embodiment wherein the pFET header can be shared between adjacent bits or all bits on the same row . The sharing concept of the pFET header helps to minimize the extra area penalty when compared to one pFET header per bitcell. For example illustrates how a pFET header may be shared between adjacent cells and to save area. In another example illustrates a pFET header shared across an entire row . This type of integration helps eliminate the need for a separate early write wordline and reduction in circuit complexities.

In yet another exemplary embodiment illustrates a circuit that utilizes a header pFET in combination with a pFET that may be configured to connect to header pFET in parallel. Such a design may be used instead of an ON OFF pFET header as previously discussed and create a weakened path to ground. Wherein the other embodiments aim to completely break the path to VDD by using ON OFF pFET headers and for example circuit uses a schematic to weaken header pFET or alternatively weaken the path to ground by including pFET . In order to establish the weakened path pFET may be configured to be always ON or it may further comprise a gate that is configured to be held at LOW. Having pFET connect to header pFET in parallel allows header pFET to turn ON when the passgate transistors and are OFF and turn OFF when the passgate transistors and are ON. Circuit may include a first common node T and a second common node C wherein T includes a true bitline and C includes a complementary bitline. T is operatively configured to connect to the second terminal of first passgate transistor and C is operatively configured to connect to the second terminal of the second passgate transistor wherein T and C are driven to complementary logic voltages when performing a write operation on the bitcell.

Circuit may be arranged in several ways. For example pFET utilized for a whole row of bitcells not shown or for each individual bitcell such as bitcell . Utility of pFET for an entire row or a bitcell may be incorporated in similar fashion as discussed above for example in a similar way to how pFET headers and can be utilized for any number of bitcells in the same row. Weakening the path to ground may further refer to the inversion qualities of the MOSFET device in this case header pFET . The ON OFF controllability of the pFET header in the previous examples allowed for the pFET header to operate in the moderate or even strong inversion region of operation for the pFET header. As such when pFET is used in parallel with header pFET this causes the value at the drain of pFET to be HIGH and causes a weakening of the path of header pFET to discharge to ground.

In yet another exemplary embodiment illustrates a circuit with an alternative approach to writing data including a footer nFET device to drive the circuit. Circuit shows nFET looter operatively connected to VDD at its source to pFET passgate transistors and at its gate and the nFETs and at its drain. Unlike the other embodiments the WWL in this case is an active LOW. This means that in order for write operations to take place WWL will need to be LOW such that when WWL is LOW the signal passes through pFET passgate transistors and activating pFET passgate transistors and and further turning on nFET footer . Turning on nFET footer subsequently turns on nFETs and and turns OFF pFETs and leading to very little nFET pFET contention and having internal nodes T and C pull up very fast. This is similar in result as having the internal nodes T and C pull down very fast due to lack of contention caused by the pFET header used in . Additionally nFET footer may be configured to receive a voltage complementary to the voltage of the output port of the driver WWL and may further have a drain connected to the source of the nFETs and . Circuit further comprises pFETs and each having a source and a drain wherein the drain is connected to a terminal of the first and second passgate transistors and .

It is further possible to combine several of the earlier embodiments together. For example illustrates such embodiment wherein circuit thus may further include header pFET added to the DIET footer design of circuit wherein header pFET may have a gate connected to the output port of the driver and further may have a drain connected to the source of first pFET and to the source of second pFET wherein header pFET is configured to turn ON when the passgate transistors and are turned OFF and turn OFF when the passgate transistors and are turned ON. Furthermore footer nFET may be configured to have a drain connected to the source of first nFET and second pFET and may also be configured to turn ON when the passgate transistors are turned OFF and turn OFF when the passgate transistors are turned ON. Furthermore circuit may further include yet another earlier discussed embodiment wherein the path to ground may be further weakened by incorporating pFET which further includes a gate wherein the gate is held LOW causing pFET to be ON and is configured to be connected in parallel to the header pFET.

Circuit may further include yet another pFET which including a gate wherein the gate is connected to a supply rail and is configured to be connected in parallel to footer nFET . Circuit may further include a first common node T and a second common node C wherein node T includes a true bitline and node C includes a complementary bitline wherein node T is configured to connect to the second terminal of first passgate transistor and node C is configured to connect to the second terminal of the second passgate transistor . Nodes T and C may be driven to complementary logic voltages when performing a store operation on the bitcell. When driver output is logic value HIGH the header pFET turns OFF further causing the first pFET and second pFET to turn OFF.

Further those of skill in the art will appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present invention.

The methods sequences and or algorithms described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium is coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor.

Accordingly an embodiment of the invention can include a computer readable media embodying a method for preventing displacement of high temporal locality fill buffers. Accordingly the invention is not limited to illustrated examples and any means for performing the functionality described herein are included in embodiments of the invention.

While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative embodiments of the invention it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims. The functions steps and or actions of the method claims in accordance with the embodiments of the invention described herein need not be performed in any particular order. Furthermore although elements of the invention may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated.

