---

title: Generating scenes and tours in a spreadsheet application
abstract: Concepts and technologies are described herein for generating scenes and tours in a spreadsheet application. In accordance with the concepts and technologies disclosed herein, a computer system executes a visualization component. Selection of an option to create a tour can be detected by the computer system. In response to detecting selection of the option, the computer system can create a tour. The computer system also can detect selection of an option to add a scene to the tour. The tour can be saved. Playback of the tour can be started in response to detecting selection of a play option. If the playback is paused, changes made to the tour and/or the scenes can be tracked by the computer system, and an updated version of the tour can be saved.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09317963&OS=09317963&RS=09317963
owner: Microsoft Technology Licensing, LLC
number: 09317963
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130521
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 681 851 entitled 3D Visualization of Data in Geographical and Temporal Contexts filed Aug. 10 2012 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

A spreadsheet application reporting application or other data presentation application may support presentation of data in two dimensional and or three dimensional pie charts graphs bar charts other representations or the like. Users therefore may graphically represent some data in charts or graphs in an attempt to gain insight into the data into relationships among data points to understand trends associated with the data or the like. Some data however may not be readily susceptible to graphic representation. As such some data may not be appreciated and or viewable by users using graphs and or charts.

For example some data may include geographical and or temporal components. Charts and graphs may be used to present geographical and or temporal information but such displays of this type of information may be limited and or may not provide a viewer or consumer with any insight into the data from a geographical and or temporal perspective. Similarly some data may change over time with respect to locations and or with respect to other portions of data. Detecting such trends and or data changes may be difficult using charts and or graphs.

To address this issue some users or consumers may generate multiple graphs or charts for a particular data set wherein each of the multiple graphs or charts may represent a different aspect of the data. Generating a number of charts or graphs may be time consuming and or difficult and some trends or other aspects of the data may not be appreciated when various aspects of the data are graphically represented in separate graphs and or charts. Thus users may be able to view temporal and or geographical information but the presentations of the data may be inadequate to discover the relationships of the data in the geographical and temporal contexts and or with respect to other aspects of the data.

Concepts and technologies are described herein for generating scenes and tours in a spreadsheet application. In accordance with the concepts and technologies disclosed herein a computer system can execute a visualization component. The visualization component can be included in a spreadsheet application and or can be configured to present visualizations of data. The data can include for example data from a variety of sources such as SQL data ODATA providers TXT files spreadsheet programs or the like herein referred to as spreadsheet data . It also should be understood that spreadsheet data can be provided by various sources services or applications and need not necessarily be provided by a spreadsheet application directly. As used herein a visualization can include an animated rendering of spreadsheet data. In some embodiments the visualization can include presentation of data on a map globe or other surface that can provide geographical context. In some other embodiments the visualization can include non geographic data presented in other ways. Thus while the visualizations can be based at least in part upon geographical information and or time values timestamps and or other temporal information included in the data this is not necessarily the case and should be understood as one example embodiment of the concepts and technologies disclosed herein.

Additionally embodiments of the concepts and technologies disclosed herein can be used to create and or modify scenes. Scenes can include animated visualizations of data with respect to a particular data set location time time range or the like. The scenes can be created named modified ordered and or reordered by users. Additionally the concepts and technologies disclosed herein can be used to generate a tour. A tour can include one or more scenes and can be generated by users and or by the visualization component. Thus multiple animated visualizations of one or more data sets can be generated and saved as a tour. The visualization component can be configured to generate various user interfaces for creating and or modifying tours various scenes included in the tours and or various views or visualizations included in the scenes.

According to one aspect a computer system executes a visualization component. The visualization component can be configured to obtain data such as for example spreadsheet data. The visualization component can generate a visualization of the spreadsheet data. A user or other entity can create a tour and create one or more scenes to be included in the tour. The scenes can be configured by the user and the tour can be saved. Changes to the scenes and or the tours can be detected by the visualization component and saved. According to various embodiments the visualization component can generate and or present multiple user interfaces for creating tours creating scenes configuring the tours and or the scenes configuring views of data presented in the scenes and or selecting and or configuring data included in the scenes.

According to another aspect the visualization component can be configured to present the tour. The tour can be presented as a visual or audio visual presentations for example a video which can be interrupted at any time by selection of a pause command and or other input for pausing playback of the tour. When the tour is paused changes to the scenes and or the tour can be made via the user interface presenting the tour and or scene and the changes can be saved to the tour. The visualization component also can be configured to generate a video file corresponding to the tour. Thus for example the tour can be exported as a video file that can be viewed by a device capable of video file playback.

It should be appreciated that the above described subject matter may be implemented as a computer controlled apparatus a computer process a computing system or as an article of manufacture such as a computer readable storage medium. These and various other features will be apparent from a reading of the following Detailed Description and a review of the associated drawings.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended that this Summary be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter. Furthermore the claimed subject matter is not limited to implementations that solve any or all disadvantages noted in any part of this disclosure.

The following detailed description is directed to concepts and technologies for generating scenes and tours in a spreadsheet application. According to the concepts and technologies described herein a computer system can execute a visualization component. The visualization component can be configured to receive data such as for example spreadsheet data. While the example of a spreadsheet application and spreadsheet data is referred to herein for example purposes it should be understood that some embodiments of the visualization component can be included in other applications or environments and or can be used to generate visualizations of data other than the described spreadsheet data. As such this example should be understood as being illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

The visualization component can generate a visualization of the spreadsheet data. The visualization can include a view of the spreadsheet data. In some embodiments the visualization includes a three dimensional representation of the spreadsheet data on a map globe or other surface that can convey geographic information. Temporal information associated with the spreadsheet data can be shown by animating the views. In some embodiments a tour having one or more scenes can be created and scenes can be added to deleted from and or modified within the tour. The scenes can correspond to animated visualizations of the views and therefore can represent data over temporal and or geographic contexts.

The scenes and or tours can be interacted with via one or more user interfaces. Changes to the scenes and or the tours can be detected by the visualization component and saved. According to various embodiments the visualization component can generate and or present multiple user interfaces for creating tours creating scenes configuring the tours and or the scenes configuring views of data presented in the scenes and or selecting and or configuring data included in the scenes. The visualization component also can be configured to present the tour. The tour can be presented as a video or other animated presentation that can be interrupted for example by detecting selection of a pause command and or other input for pausing playback of the tour.

In some configurations when the tour is paused changes to the scenes and or the tour can be made via the user interface in an edit mode by presenting the tour and or scene. Changes to the tour made in the edit mode may be saved when a user saves the workbook. The visualization component also can be configured to generate a video file corresponding to the tour that can be exported for playback on other systems or devices.

While the subject matter described herein is presented in the general context of program modules that execute in conjunction with the execution of an operating system and application programs on a computer system those skilled in the art will recognize that other implementations may be performed in combination with other types of program modules. Generally program modules include routines programs components data structures and other types of structures that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Moreover those skilled in the art will appreciate that the subject matter described herein may be practiced with other computer system configurations including hand held devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics minicomputers mainframe computers and the like.

In the following detailed description references are made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and in which are shown by way of illustration specific embodiments or examples. Referring now to the drawings in which like numerals represent like elements throughout the several figures aspects of a computing system computer readable storage medium and computer implemented methodology for generating scenes and tours in a spreadsheet application will be presented.

Referring now to aspects of one operating environment for the various embodiments presented herein will be described. The operating environment shown in includes a computer system operating as a part of and or in communication with a communications network network . According to various implementations of the concepts and technologies disclosed herein the functionality of the computer system can be provided by a cloud based computing platform that can be provided by one or more application servers Web servers data storage systems network appliances dedicated hardware devices and or other server computers or computing devices.

According to some other embodiments the computer system can include a user computing device such as a tablet computing device a personal computer PC a desktop computer a laptop computer a notebook computer a cellular phone or smartphone other mobile computing devices a personal digital assistant PDA or the like. Some example architectures of the computer system are illustrated and described below with reference to . For purposes of illustrating and describing the concepts and technologies disclosed herein the functionality of the computer system is described herein as being provided by a server computer. In light of the above alternative embodiments of the computer system described above it should be understood that this example is illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

The computer system can be configured to execute an operating system and one or more application programs such as for example a spreadsheet application a visualization component and or other application programs. The operating system is a computer program for controlling the operation of the computer system . The application programs are executable programs configured to execute on top of the operating system to provide the functionality described herein for generating scenes and tours in a spreadsheet application.

In particular the spreadsheet application can be configured to create manipulate store and or otherwise interact with tabular or other structured data such as spreadsheets. According to some embodiments of the concepts and technologies disclosed herein the functionality of the spreadsheet application can be provided by a member of the MICROSOFT EXCEL family of spreadsheet applications from Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash. In some other embodiments the functionality of the spreadsheet application can be provided by a database application a data reporting application a data presentation application combinations thereof or the like.

According to some implementations the spreadsheet application can be executed by one or more server computers in the computer system such as application servers and or Web servers. Thus the functionality of the spreadsheet application can be accessed by other computing devices and or accessed at the computer system . In the illustrated embodiment the functionality of the spreadsheet application can be accessed and or interacted with by a user computing device . The functionality of the user computing device can be provided by for example a tablet computing device a smartphone a laptop computer a desktop computer other computing devices combinations thereof or the like. The user computing device can communicate with the computer system over one or more links or networks such as for example the network a private network a direct wireless or wired connection the Internet and or combinations of these and other networks and or communication links.

Although not visible in the user computing device can execute one or more client applications. The client applications can include Web browser applications and or other applications for accessing the spreadsheet application executing on the computer system . In some embodiments the spreadsheet application can be executed locally on the user computing device or other devices that can include the functionality of the computer system described herein. The spreadsheet application can be implemented as hardware software and or a combination of the two. Furthermore the spreadsheet application can include one or more application program modules and other components on the user computing device the computer system and or other computing platforms. As will be explained in more detail herein the user computing device can generate one or more user interfaces UIs to present temporal information to a user .

According to various embodiments the spreadsheet application can be configured to generate manipulate and or store tabular or other structured data that can be included in spreadsheet data . The spreadsheet data also can be stored in tables of a database objects stored in an object store or the like. Because the functionality of the spreadsheet application is generally understood the spreadsheet application will not be described in additional detail herein.

According to various implementations the spreadsheet data can be obtained by the computer system from a local or remote data source . In some embodiments the data source can include a memory disk drive or other data storage element of or associated with the computer system . In some other embodiments such as the embodiment illustrated in the data source can include a network drive a server computer operating as a part of and or in communication with the network a database or other real or virtual data storage elements and or other data storage devices. As such it should be understood that the data source can include almost any type of data storage device that is local to and or remote from the computer system .

The visualization component can be executed by the computer system to provide the functionality described herein for displaying temporal information in a spreadsheet application. In particular the visualization component can be configured to obtain the spreadsheet data from the spreadsheet application and or directly from the data source and to generate based upon the spreadsheet data three dimensional visualizations of the spreadsheet data in a geographical and or temporal context. In some embodiments the visualization component can be implemented as a component of the spreadsheet application and in some embodiments the visualization component can be implemented as a component separate from the spreadsheet application. Thus while the spreadsheet application and the visualization component are illustrated as components of the computer system it should be understood that each of these components or combinations thereof may be embodied as or in stand alone devices or components thereof operating on or in communication with the network and or the computer system . Thus the illustrated embodiment is illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

In some embodiments the visualization component may be implemented as a plugin or add in for the spreadsheet application . In some other embodiments the visualization component can include a service and or set of application programming interfaces APIs that can provide the functionality described herein. Thus it should be appreciated that the visualization component can be implemented as hardware software or a combination thereof

According to various embodiments of the concepts and technologies disclosed herein the visualization component can be configured to access one or more geocoding services . The geocoding services can be configured to map geographical data included in the spreadsheet data to geographic information. Thus for example the visualization component can provide geographical data included in the spreadsheet data such as for example a street address a city a state a ZIP code or the like to the geocoding services . The geocoding services can map this geographical data to latitude and longitude information and or other geocoded location data. Thus it can be appreciated that the geocoding services can be called by the computer system via one or more APIs exposed by the geocoding services though this is not necessarily the case. Furthermore the geocoding services can be configured to provide geographic mapping data representing mappings of the geographical data to the geocoded location data to the computer system though this is not necessarily the case.

In some embodiments the visualization component can access the geocoding services via one or more networks such as for example the network the Internet other networks and or a combination thereof. In some other embodiments the geocoding services can be implemented on the computer system . In one contemplated embodiment the geocoding services are implemented as a component of the visualization component . It should be understood that this embodiment is illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

The visualization component also can be configured to obtain and or access map data . The map data can be used to provide geolocation and or graphical data for the creation of the three dimensional geographical maps as described herein. The visualization component may be configured to obtain or access the map data from or at a computing device such as for example a map server . In some embodiments the functionality of the map server can be provided by a mapping application executed by a search engine such as the BING search engine from Microsoft Corporation in Redmond Wash. Because the functionality of the map server can be provided by additional and or other devices and or applications it should be understood that this embodiment is illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

The computer system can access the map server via one or more networks such as for example the network . In some embodiments the visualization component can be configured to access map tiles from the map data and to stich the map tiles together over a three dimensional globe armature to create a three dimensional geographic globe. The visualization component can be configured to use geocoded location data such as latitude and longitude data from the geocoding services to place visualizations of data included in the spreadsheet data on the three dimensional geographic globe. As such various embodiments of the visualization component can be configured to generate displays of geographic data.

The user may interact with the spreadsheet application and the visualization component to create and or navigate a three dimensional visualization of the spreadsheet data through a display of the user computing device . In some embodiments the user may use one or more input devices of the user computing device such as a touchscreen a keyboard a mouse a game controller combinations thereof or the like. The UIs can be presented on the touchscreen a monitor a display other display surfaces or devices combinations thereof or the like.

The visualization component can be executed by the computer system to provide the functionality described herein for generating scenes and tours in a spreadsheet application. In particular the visualization component can be configured to obtain data such as for example the spreadsheet data . The visualization component can be configured to generate a visualization of the spreadsheet data as explained above. Thus for example the visualization component can be configured to generate a three dimensional representation of the spreadsheet data on a surface such as a map globe or the like.

The visualization component also can be configured to create a tour. As used herein a tour can correspond to a file or other collection of data that can define or include a number of scenes. The scenes can include animated visualizations of data generated by the visualization component as will be explained in more detail herein. Thus a tour can correspond to and or define a number of scenes and the scenes can correspond to and or define a number of animation frames of an animated visualization of data. According to various embodiments as will be explained in more detail below the tour can be generated by the visualization component based upon input from a user and or can be generated automatically by the visualization component based upon an analysis of the spreadsheet data .

The visualization component also can be configured to create scenes to be added to the tour. In some embodiments the visualization component is configured to generate and present the UIs wherein the UIs include controls for creating tours and or adding scenes to the tours. The UIs also can include controls for naming or renaming tours naming or renaming scenes ordering and or reordering scenes of a tour setting durations of scenes configuring data included in scenes and or configuring one or more views of the data included in the scenes. The UIs also can include options for playing a tour and or other options for controlling playback of the tour. Some example UIs for interacting with the visualization component are illustrated and described below with reference to .

The visualization component can detect changes made to scenes and save the tour including the changes made to the scenes. Thus the visualization component can support creation and or configuration of tours and or scenes included in the tours via various UIs . According to some embodiments of the concepts and technologies disclosed herein the visualization component also can generate and or present UIs for playing tours and or capturing changes made to tours from within a paused tour.

In particular the visualization component can detect input for playing a tour. The visualization component can generate a playback screen for watching the tour. The tour can be presented in a full screen interface in a windowed interface and or in other interfaces. During playback of the tour the visualization component can monitor interactions with a UI presenting the tour to determine if input for pausing playback of the tour has been detected. If input for pausing playback for example a pause command is detected the visualization component can save a playback position of the tour at the time the pause command is detected and monitor interactions with the UI to detect input for resuming playback of the tour. The playback position can be saved as a frame number a time value a scene name or number combinations thereof or the like.

Other controls in playback may include but are not limited to back previous scene play pause escape repeat and next scene. While in playback accessing the back control may cause the initiation of an edit mode. The escape control may also cause the initiation of an edit mode or may exit the tour entirely. Changes made to the tour during the edit mode may be saved once the edit mode is exited. The repeat control may cause the continuous playback of the tour. The previous scene control may cause the tour to return to the scene prior to the current scene. The next scene control may cause the tour to move forward to a scene following the current scene.

When the tour is paused the visualization component also can allow interactions with the tour and or the scenes of the tour. Changes made to the scenes and or the tour can be saved by the visualization component by saving a new version of the tour and or by updating the tour. If input for resuming playback of the tour is detected by the visualization component the playback can be resumed from the saved playback position. The visualization component can save changes made to the tour and or the scenes after playback has completed during playback during the edit mode and or at other times. These and other aspects of the concepts and technologies disclosed herein for generating tours and scenes in a spreadsheet application will be illustrated and described in additional detail herein.

Turning now to additional aspects of the visualization component will be presented according to one illustrative embodiment. In particular provides further details regarding architecture and subcomponents of the visualization component according to some embodiments. The visualization component can include a number of components and or subsystems including but not limited to a visualization control a visualization engine a spreadsheet plugin core and or other components and or subsystems.

The visualization control can include functionality for representing data performing searches and or providing search services a globe control for visualizing and or presenting representations of the globe video recording functionality for recording animations and or videos of illustrated tours and a client. The visualization engine can include functionality for generating a tour including multiple scenes images and or animation sequences functionality for measuring and or representing time in the visualization space an engine core for providing the visualization component functionality described herein annotations functionality for generating and or rendering two dimensional and or three dimensional annotations spatial indexing functionality and camera functionality. The visualization engine also can include globe models and or functionality for representing the globe input and touch modules for interpreting touch and or multi touch commands as input visual layers functionality for representing and or interacting with layers of a visualization space a tile cache for storing map tiles a three dimensional graphics module for generating and or rendering three dimensional visualizations and shaders for providing shading of generated and or rendered three dimensional objects.

In some embodiments the shaders can include or implement a number of algorithms to facilitate the rendering of the three dimensional geographical visualizations of data described herein. For example the visualization component can implement a dark aura effect for disambiguating visualization of a number of similarly colored objects. A dark aura effect can include a visual treatment that allows a viewer for example the user to differentiate between items in a three dimensional visualization space. When there are multiple similarly colored columns in a three dimensional visualization or view some of these columns may be next to and or behind one another in the three dimensional view. Thus the multiple columns may appear to be grouped together and or may look like a single polygon. In some embodiments of the concepts and technologies disclosed herein the dark aura effect can be added around one or more of the columns thereby allowing the one or more columns to appear to stand out from one another. Because other visual effects are possible and are contemplated it should be understood that this example is illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

In another example the visualization component may implement a GPU based framework for asynchronous hit testing for large number of arbitrary three dimensional elements. This may comprise adding out of channel color information to pixels of the objects rendered in the three dimensional visualization that may be invisible to the viewer but can contain information identifying the object. Thus if a user taps clicks or otherwise interacts with a point in the three dimensional visualization the identity of the object represented by the selected pixel can be known without deconstructing the three dimensional visualization and determining the object rendered at the selected location. This may be implemented in the GPU.

The spreadsheet plugin core can include functionality for storing workbook state information as well as a query engine for generating and or executing queries against various data sources. In some embodiments the query engine can be configured to generate a query based upon data stored in the spreadsheet data and to submit the queries to a search engine. It should be understood that this embodiment is illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

The visualization component also can include various other components and or subsystems such as for example a spreadsheet program native plugin and a spreadsheet program API such as for example a component object model COM API a Java API and or APIs developed using other languages such as for example Perl Apple Cocoa framework or the like. The visualization component also can include various graphics plugins and or APIs such as the illustrated DIRECTX APIs API call emulators such as the illustrated DIRECTX WRAPPER a WINDOWS Presentation Foundation WPF subsystem combinations thereof or the like. The visualization component also can include analytics engines such as the illustrated VERTIPAQ engine and or modules associated with other data providers if desired. As such it should be understood that the spreadsheet data described herein can be obtained from various data sources including but not limited to various spreadsheet applications databases or other applications services and or data structures and that the embodiments disclosed herein are not limited to obtaining the spreadsheet data from the spreadsheet application . Furthermore as explained above the spreadsheet data is not necessarily data from a spreadsheet application as this data can come from various sources as explained above. Also it should be appreciated that the visualization component can include additional and or alternative functionality not shown in . As such the embodiment illustrated in should be understood as being illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

Turning now to aspects of a method for generating tours and scenes in a spreadsheet application will be described in detail. It should be understood that the operations of the methods disclosed herein are not necessarily presented in any particular order and that performance of some or all of the operations in an alternative order s is possible and is contemplated. The operations have been presented in the demonstrated order for ease of description and illustration. Operations may be added omitted and or performed simultaneously without departing from the scope of the appended claims.

It also should be understood that the illustrated methods disclosed herein can be ended at any time and need not be performed in their respective or collective entireties. Some or all operations of the methods disclosed herein and or substantially equivalent operations can be performed by execution of computer readable instructions included on a computer storage media as defined herein. The term computer readable instructions and variants thereof as used in the description and claims is used expansively herein to include routines applications application modules program modules programs components data structures algorithms and the like. Computer readable instructions can be implemented on various system configurations including single processor or multiprocessor systems minicomputers mainframe computers personal computers hand held computing devices microprocessor based programmable consumer electronics combinations thereof and the like.

Thus it should be appreciated that the logical operations described herein are implemented 1 as a sequence of computer implemented acts or program modules running on a computing system and or 2 as interconnected machine logic circuits or circuit modules within the computing system. The implementation is a matter of choice dependent on the performance and other requirements of the computing system. Accordingly the logical operations described herein are referred to variously as states operations structural devices acts or modules. These operations structural devices acts and modules may be implemented in software in firmware in special purpose digital logic and any combination thereof.

For purposes of illustrating and describing the concepts of the present disclosure the methods disclosed herein are described as being performed by the computer system via execution of one or more software modules such as for example the visualization component . It should be understood that additional and or alternative devices and or network nodes can provide the functionality described herein via execution of one or more modules applications and or other software including but not limited to the visualization component . Thus the illustrated embodiments are illustrative and should not be viewed as being limiting in any way.

The method begins at operation wherein the computer system obtains spreadsheet data . As explained above the spreadsheet data can include various types of information or content such as for example spreadsheet files database application data and or other types of information. In one contemplated embodiment the spreadsheet data corresponds to a spreadsheet file such as a file generated by a member of the MICROSOFT EXCEL family of spreadsheet application software products from Microsoft Corporation in Redmond Wash. Other contemplated spreadsheet applications include but are not limited to a member of the GOOGLE DOCS family of programs a member of the OPENOFFICE family of programs a member of the APPLE IWORK NUMBERS family of programs and or other spreadsheet table and or database programs. The spreadsheet data can be obtained from a data storage device or component associated with the computer system . Some examples of data storage devices are described in more detail below with reference to . In some other embodiments the spreadsheet data can be stored at or hosted by a remote storage device or resource such as the data source described herein. Thus the spreadsheet data can be obtained by the computer system via communications with the data source and or from a local data storage device.

Although not shown in it should be understood that the computer system can create a visualization from the spreadsheet data as explained above. Thus operation can include creating the visualization and or presenting the visualization to a user or other entity. As explained above the visualization can include a three dimensional representation of the spreadsheet data which can be presented on a map globe or other surface. It should be understood that this embodiment is illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

From operation the method proceeds to operation wherein the computer system creates a tour. As explained above a tour can include a file for presenting animated visualizations of the spreadsheet data . According to various embodiments the tour can be created as a file having multiple scenes wherein the scenes of the tour can be generated by the visualization component based upon an analysis and or understanding of the spreadsheet data .

In some other embodiments the tour can be created as a file that does not include any scenes as in the embodiment illustrated in . In particular a user or other entity can select an option to create the tour and then add scenes to the tour wherein the scenes can include animated visualizations of the spreadsheet data . The one or more scenes of a tour can be added to the tour. One example user interface for creating a tour is illustrated and described in more detail below with reference to . In the embodiment of method shown in the tour is created without any scenes and scenes can be added by the computer system as will be explained in more detail below.

From operation the method proceeds to operation wherein the computer system adds a scene to the tour. The computer system can detect selection of an option to add the scene to the tour added in operation . One example user interface for adding a scene to a tour is illustrated and described in more detail below with reference to . As explained above the scene can include an animated visualization of the spreadsheet data and or a portion thereof. In adding the scene to the tour the computer system can obtain data defining a duration of the scene a time range of the data shown in the scene camera effects and or transitions applied to the animated scene data labels and or annotations combinations thereof or the like. As used herein a transition is the manner in which a tour changes from one scene to a consecutive scene. In some configurations a transition has a duration which may be a default duration or may be specified by a user. Also as used herein an effect is a visualization technique or motion used within a scene. In some configurations an effect may persist the entire duration of a scene.

In some other embodiments the scene can be added to the tour without any specification of the scene contents. Thus the computer system can add one or more scenes to the tour and can obtain data for modifying the scene after adding the scenes to the tour. In some other embodiments the computer system can be configured to add the scene to the tour when the tour is created. As such it should be understood that the functionality described herein with reference to operation can be included within and or can be performed in response to the functionality described with reference to operation . It should be understood that this embodiment is illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

From operation the method proceeds to operation wherein the computer system determines if another an additional or a further scene is to be added to the tour. The computer system can determine that another scene is to be added to the tour by detecting input for adding a scene as described above with reference to operation . If the computer system determines in operation that another scene is to be added to the tour the method can return to operation and the additional scene can be added. It can be appreciated that the computer system can be configured via multiple iterations of operations to add multiple scenes to the tour though this is not necessarily the case. As such operations can be repeated until the computer system determines in any iteration of operation that another scene is not to be added to the tour.

Although not explicitly illustrated in it should be understood that a user or other entity can interact with multiple user interfaces and or otherwise interact with the visualization component to configure a scene added in operation and or to configure the tour created in operation as mentioned above with reference to operation . For example the visualization component can be configured to allow a tour to be named to set a duration of the tour to arrange name order add delete and or reorder scenes of the tour to add or modify annotations within a scene to create or add legends to apply themes to set or modify data colors shapes and or visualization types to set or modify time characteristics to add or modify screen titles to change data and or a data set used to generate a scene or view associated with the scene to set and or modify viewing angles associated with the scenes and or the tour to add or modify transitions or camera effects associated with the scenes combinations thereof or the like. Some example user interfaces for configuring the tour and or scenes of the tour are illustrated and described in more detail below with reference to . Because the tour and or scenes can be configured in additional and or alternative ways it should be understood that these example user interfaces are illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

If the computer system determines in operation that another scene is not to be added to the tour the method can proceed to operation . In operation the computer system can save the tour created in operation . It can be appreciated that the scenes added in one or more iterations of operation also can be saved in operation . The tour and or scenes can be saved in some embodiments as the spreadsheet data . In some other embodiments the computer system can be configured to save the tour and or scenes as other forms of data that can be stored at the computer system and or shared with other devices.

From operation the method can proceed to operation . In operation the computer system can determine if any changes to the tour have been made. Thus for example the computer system can determine if the computer system has detected any changes to the tour and or scenes of the tour such as for example the various tour and or scene modifications discussed above with reference to operation .

If the computer system determines in operation that changes have been made to the tour the method can return to operation and the computer system can save the changed tour. It can be appreciated that operations can be repeated until the computer system determines in any iteration of operation that changes have not been made to the tour. If the computer system determines in operation that changes have not been made to the tour the method proceeds to operation . The method ends at operation .

The method described above has been described as an embodiment wherein the computer system generates the tour based upon user input. In some embodiments the computer system also can be configured to generate the tours automatically in what can be referred to as an auto tour. In particular the computer system can be configured to provide an option to generate an auto tour and or provide an option to request automatic generation of one or more scenes. In some embodiments a user may request an auto tour via selection of a UI control and or the computer system can be configured to offer an auto tour without user input.

In some configurations the computer system may be configured to detect a user selection of various aspects of the auto tour. For example the user or other entity may be able to specify a start time and an end time of the auto tour. This time which may be called tour time specifies the duration of a tour. In some configurations if time is a component of the spreadsheet data rendered in the visualization the time may be adjusted based on the tour time. The time component in the spreadsheet data may be termed data time. For example if the spreadsheet data includes time in one dataset as 20 minutes and time in another dataset as 10 minutes the 20 minute time may be adjusted for visualization in the full 5 minutes whereby the 10 minute time may be adjusted to a percentage of the 5 minutes. In this example because 10 minutes is one half of 20 minutes the 10 minute time may be rendered in the tour as lasting 2.5 minutes or one half of the 5 minute tour time . The present disclosure is not limited to any particular manner in which either the tour time or the data time may be adjusted.

The computer system may also be configured to commence an auto tour at various locations such as a start location depending on the spreadsheet data . For example the computer system may be configured to analyze the spreadsheet data to determine hot spots or nexus of data in the spreadsheet data . The visualization component may then commence the auto tour at the nexus of data. Further the visualization component may be configured to adjust the scene effect to place the camera at various locations of data for times depending on the data. For example the camera may be placed at the nexus of the spreadsheet data for a longer period of time in the tour than at a data point having little relation to the other data in the spreadsheet data . The present disclosure is not limited to any particular manner in which the auto tour may generate the tour.

According to various implementations of the auto tour the computer system can be configured to generate one or more scenes or options for generating one or more scenes and provide the options or the scenes to a user via the UIs . The scenes can include but are not limited to scenes showing minimum values in the spreadsheet data maximum values in the spreadsheet data data sets having a greatest variation or distribution fastest growing or shrinking values in the spreadsheet data or the like. Some examples of the UIs for requesting auto tours and or some example auto tour scenes are illustrated and described below with reference to .

Thus it can be appreciated that the method for generating the tours can be performed by the computer system without user input and or can be based upon an analysis of the spreadsheet data to generate the tour generate the scenes and or configure the scenes as described above. Additionally in some embodiments the tours can be based upon one or more of the scenes mentioned above. It should be understood that a user or other entity can select one of multiple generated or suggested scenes of a tour and need not select all scenes of a tour. Similarly the operations discussed below with reference to can be executed by the computer system during generation and or configuration of an auto tour.

Turning now to aspects of a method for modifying tours and scenes in a spreadsheet application will be described in detail. The method begins at operation wherein the computer system plays a tour. The computer system can play the tour in response to receiving a command to play the tour. For example a user or other entity may enter a touch command a mouse command a voice command and or other types of input that when detected by the computer system cause the computer system to begin playback of the tour. Because the tour can be played at additional and or alternative times and or because playback of the tour can be requested via other types of input it should be understood that these examples are illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

From operation the method proceeds to operation wherein the computer system determines if playback of the tour has been paused. Thus the computer system can determine if input for pausing the tour is received at the computer system at any time during playback. While operation refers to pausing the tour it should be understood that other commands can be recognized as pausing the playback such as for example a stop command a wait command combinations thereof or the like.

If the computer system determines in operation that playback of the tour has not been paused the method can repeat operation . As such it can be appreciated that the computer system can be configured to repeat operation until the computer system determines in any iteration of operation that playback of the tour has been paused. If the computer system determines that playback of the tour has been paused the method can proceed to operation .

In operation the computer system can save a current playback position. Thus the computer system can be configured to store a playback position in a memory a cache or other temporary or permanent storage locations to indicate a playback position at a time at which the playback was paused in operation . The playback position can be saved as a frame number as a scene identifier as a time identifier a bookmark a named location combinations thereof or the like.

Although not explicitly shown in various embodiments of the concepts and technologies disclosed herein can be configured to enable interactions with the views and or the spreadsheet data associated with a view from within the tour. In particular a view shown in a tour can be interacted with by a user or other entity using the view shown in the tour as a starting point. Thus for example the computer system may receive input for pausing playback of the tour. The view displayed at that point of the tour may be persisted to allow a user or other entity to interact with the visualization of the underlying spreadsheet data from that view which as explained above can define for example an orientation a scope a view angle a field of view a viewing distance a tilt angle time control options brushing via visuals such as legends or histograms applying visual effects modifying data selections combinations thereof or the like.

As such embodiments of the concepts and technologies disclosed herein can be configured to support pausing of playback of a tour and interacting with the spreadsheet data from the view shown in the tour at the time the tour is paused. As will be explained in more detail below a user or other entity can interact with the view and select an option for saving the modified view thereby modifying the tour and or a scene of the tour. These and other aspects of interacting with the tour and or a scene of the tour are illustrated and described in more detail below with reference to .

From operation the method proceeds to operation wherein the computer system determines if playback of the tour has been resumed. Thus the computer system can be configured to determine in operation if a command for resuming the playback is received. In some embodiments for example the computer system can determine that playback of the tour has been resumed in response to detecting selection of a play control.

Because the computer system can determine that playback has been resumed in additional and or alternative ways it should be understood that this example is illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

If the computer system determines in operation that playback of the tour has not been resumed the method can repeat operation . As such it can be appreciated that the computer system can be configured to repeat operation until the computer system determines in any iteration of operation that playback of the tour has been resumed. If the computer system determines in operation that playback of the tour has been resumed the method proceeds to operation .

In operation the computer system can resume playback of the tour at the saved playback position. In particular the computer system can retrieve data identifying the playback position as saved in operation from a data storage device and resume playback of the tour at the saved position.

From operation the method can proceed to operation . In operation the computer system can determine if any changes to the tour have been made. For example the computer system can determine if the tour and or a scene of the tour has been modified during a pause in playback after the pause after playback completes or the like. As such the computer system can be configured to save changes to the tour and or scenes of the tour that are made during playback of the tour.

If the computer system determines in operation that changes have been made to the tour the method can proceed to operation . In operation the computer system can save the tour. It should be understood that saving the tour in operation can be substantially similar or even identical to saving the tour as described above with reference to operation of though this is not necessarily the case.

From operation the method proceeds to operation . The method also can proceed to operation from operation if the computer system determines in operation that changes have not been made to the tour. The method ends at operation .

Turning now to UI diagrams showing various aspects of the concepts and technologies disclosed herein for generating scenes and tours in a spreadsheet application will be described according to various illustrative embodiments. shows an illustrative screen display A generated by a device such as the computer system and or the user computing device . In some embodiments the screen display A can correspond to the UI displayed by the user computing device as shown in though this is not necessarily the case. It should be appreciated that the UI diagram illustrated in is illustrative of one contemplated example and therefore should not be construed as being limited in any way.

As shown in the screen display A can include a view corresponding to a three dimensional visualization of data such as the spreadsheet data described herein. More particularly the view is illustrated as a map with multiple columns corresponding to data associated with the respective geographic locations included in the spreadsheet data . It should be understood that the example view shown in is illustrative and therefore should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

The screen display A also can include a display properties bar for selecting and or deselecting fields of data that are to be considered or represented in generating and or displaying the view . The fields can be populated based upon the spreadsheet data used to generate the view though this is not necessarily the case. Via the display properties bar fields can be selected and or deselected to alter the view .

Additionally the screen display A can include a play UI control for playing a tour. As shown in the play UI control can be shaded out or otherwise modified to indicate that a tour has not yet been created and or cannot be played. In some embodiments the computer system can be configured to shade out and or otherwise modify the play UI control until a tour is created and or at least one scene is added to a tour. It should be understood that this example is illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

The screen display A also includes a new UI control for creating a new tour. Selection of the new UI control can cause the computer system to create a new tour as will be explained in more detail below. It can be appreciated that selection of the new UI control can correspond in some embodiments to detecting creation of a tour as described above with reference to operation of . It should be understood that this embodiment is illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

The screen display A also includes a save UI control for saving a tour. Selection of the save UI control can cause the computer system to save a tour. It can be appreciated that selection of the save UI control can cause the computer system to save data corresponding to the tour as described above with reference to operation of though this not necessarily the case. The screen display A also can include an add UI control for adding a scene to a tour. Thus while not shown in the add UI control can be located in a scene menu and the play UI control the new UI control and or the save UI control can be located in a tour menu. It should be understood that this embodiment is illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

Turning now to a UI diagram showing additional aspects of the concepts and technologies disclosed herein for generating scenes and tours in a spreadsheet application is described in detail. In particular shows a screen display B generated by a device such as the computer system and or the user computing device . In some embodiments the screen display B corresponds to one or more of the UIs shown in and described above with reference to . Furthermore the screen display B can be presented in some embodiments in response to detecting selection of the new UI control illustrated in . Because the screen display B can be shown at additional and or alternative times it should be appreciated that this example as well as the layout and or contents of the UI diagram illustrated in are illustrative and should not be construed as being limited in any way.

As shown in the computer system can be configured to generate a tour explorer window when a tour is created. The tour explorer window can include a caption showing a name of the tour. It should be understood that the illustrated caption is illustrative. In some embodiments the caption can be automatically generated for example by the computer system . Although not visible in the caption can be editable in place. In one contemplated embodiment the caption can be selected and interacted with to set and or change the name of the tour. In the illustrated embodiment shown in the add UI control is being selected. As explained above selection of the add UI control can cause the computer system to add a scene to the tour. It should be understood that this embodiment is illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

Turning now to a UI diagram showing additional aspects of the concepts and technologies disclosed herein for generating scenes and tours in a spreadsheet application is described in detail. In particular shows a screen display C generated by a device such as the computer system and or the user computing device . In some embodiments the screen display C corresponds to one or more of the UIs shown in and described above with reference to . In some instances the screen display C can be presented in response to detecting selection of the add UI control illustrated in . Because the screen display C can be shown at additional and or alternative times it should be appreciated that this example as well as the layout and or contents of the UI diagram illustrated in are illustrative and should not be construed as being limited in any way.

In the tour explorer window displays two thumbnails A B hereinafter collectively and or generically referred to as thumbnails . The thumbnails can represent and or correspond to scenes included in the tour. As shown in the thumbnails can include respective thumbnail captions A B hereinafter collectively and or generically referred to as thumbnail captions . The thumbnail captions can display a name of the scenes associated with the thumbnails and as with the caption discussed above with reference to the thumbnail captions can be editable in place via selection and editing among other manners.

According to some embodiments of the concepts and technologies disclosed herein the thumbnails also can include other functionality for interacting with and or controlling various aspects of the tour. As shown in a mouse pointer has been placed over or hovered over the thumbnail A. In response to detecting this position of the mouse pointer the computer system can be configured to generate and or display a scene menu . The scene menu can include various options such as for example an option to delete the scene an option to lock the scene an option to access settings and or properties associated with the scene corresponding to the thumbnail A other options combinations thereof or the like. The option to lock the scene can be used to require unlocking before the scene associated with the thumbnail can be edited to prevent unwanted or unintended changes. If a user or other entity tries to edit a locked scene the computer system can display a notification to create a new scene or take other actions. Because additional and or alternative options can be included in the scene menu it should be understood that this embodiment is illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

It also can be appreciated with reference to that the play UI control has been unshaded or otherwise modified to indicate that this control is activated. Thus the computer system can be configured to enable playback of the tour in response to detecting that the tour includes at least one scene. Because this feature is optional it should be understood that this embodiment is illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

Turning now to a UI diagram showing additional aspects of the concepts and technologies disclosed herein for generating scenes and tours in a spreadsheet application is described in detail. In particular shows a screen display D generated by a device such as the computer system and or the user computing device . In some embodiments the screen display D corresponds to one or more of the UIs shown in and described above with reference to . It should be appreciated that the UI diagram illustrated in is illustrative of one contemplated embodiment and therefore should not be construed as being limited in any way.

In the tour explorer window is again illustrated as being displayed. In however the thumbnail A has been dragged out of a position at which it was illustrated in . For example a user or other entity may drag the thumbnail A by clicking a mouse button while the mouse pointer is located on the thumbnail A holding down the mouse button and moving the mouse pointer while holding the mouse button. It should be understood that this example is illustrative and that various touch and or multi touch gestures can be used to indicate a similar or identical command. For example a touch and drag gesture a two fingered touch and drag gesture and or other touch and or multi touch gestures may be used to drag the thumbnail A as shown in .

In response to detecting dragging of the thumbnail A the computer system can shift the thumbnail B to the position formerly occupied by the thumbnail A as shown in . After the mouse button is released the finger or fingers are brought out of contact with a touch or multi touch screen and or another type of input is detected by the computer system the computer system can locate the thumbnail A in the position formerly occupied by the thumbnail B as shown in . Thus it can be appreciated by collectively referring to that scenes can be reordered in the user interfaces if desired.

In a scene properties window is illustrated as being displayed. Then scene properties window can be displayed for example in response to detecting selection of a settings or properties option as shown in the scene menu illustrated in . Because the scene properties window can be shown at additional and or alternative times it should be understood that this embodiment is illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way. The scene properties window can include an option for setting a duration of the scene as well as a field for entering a scene name. It can be appreciated that by entering a name into the field can cause the computer system to display the name entered in the field as one of the captions illustrated in though this is not necessarily the case.

Turning now to a UI diagram showing additional aspects of the concepts and technologies disclosed herein for generating scenes and tours in a spreadsheet application is described in detail. It should be appreciated that the UI diagram illustrated in is illustrative of one contemplated embodiment and therefore should not be construed as being limited in any way. In playback of the tour is illustrated according to an illustrative embodiment. As shown in the tour can be shown as a full screen representation of the tour. In playback controls are shown. According to various embodiments the playback controls can be shown in the playback screen in response to detecting hovering and or other interactions with the screen display G and hidden or animated away in response to detecting the end of a command passage of a time limit without no interactions combinations thereof or the like. Thus it can be appreciated that the playback controls can be hidden from view though this is not necessarily the case.

It should be understood that the various elements shown in the can be changed moved resized hidden from view and or presented in additional or alternative formats layouts relative sizes or the like. For example the screen displays can display controls for labeling or numbering scenes. Additionally the thumbnails can provide miniature animated versions of the scenes to which they correspond to provide previews of the scenes. Scene visuals may resize according to the width of the displayed panel as shown in the FIGURES and scenes may indicate whether or not the scenes include temporal information. Additionally the screen displays can include menu options or controls for choosing transitions choosing effects choosing durations choosing time persistence and or decay and or setting other time properties of the scenes and or tour. It should be understood that these embodiments are illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

In an auto tour UI control is shown. According to various implementations of the concepts and technologies disclosed herein selection of the auto tour UI control can cause the computer system to generate an auto tour as described above with reference to . As such selection of the auto tour UI control can cause the computer system to analyze the spreadsheet data or other data used to generate a visualization to generate one or more scenes and or generate a tour that includes the one or more scenes without user input.

Thus as will be illustrated and described below with reference to the computer system can generate one or more scenes that can be automatically generated by the computer system according to various considerations such as for example identification of fastest growing data or data sets fastest shrinking data or data sets data or data sets having a widest distribution or variation among the data points and or over a time range or window data or data sets having the largest values data or data sets having the smallest values data or data sets having a widest or narrowest variation over geographic locations combinations thereof or the like.

In some other embodiments as shown in the computer system can be configured to generate an auto tour based upon user input. As shown in a user can select one or more data points data sets or the like. In this is illustrated by highlighting of the data or data sets by bounding boxes which the computer system can be configured to draw around the selected data or data points. In some other embodiments the computer system can generate tours based upon selection of a data set or location. Selection also can be used to show the selected data points in the tour e.g. to apply a filter for those data points and or to color the selected points e.g. as an exception format . Selection also can be used to add an annotation to the selected data points set or group. It should be understood that these embodiment are illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

The selected data can be highlighted as shown and upon detecting a selection of the auto tour UI control the computer system can generate a tour that has scenes directed to the selected data and or associated data sets. Thus for example the computer system can be configured to generate a scene for each of the selected data points or data sets and create a tour with those scenes. Because the scenes can be generated in additional and or alternative ways it should be understood that this embodiment is illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

Turning to additional aspects of the concepts and technologies disclosed herein for generating auto tours and or scenes of auto tours in a spreadsheet application are described in detail. In particular shows a screen display I generated by a device such as the computer system and or the user computing device . The screen display I can be but is not necessarily generated by the computer system in response to detecting selection of the auto tour UI control illustrated and described above with reference to . Because the screen display I can be generated by the computer system at additional and or alternative times and because the contents of the screen display I can be varied in a variety of manners it should be understood that the UI diagram illustrated in is illustrative of one contemplated example and therefore should not be construed as being limited in any way.

In an auto tour selection window is shown. According to various implementations of the concepts and technologies disclosed herein the auto tour selection window can present one or more auto tour suggestion icons A C hereinafter collectively and or generically referred to as auto tour suggestion icons . The auto tour suggestion icons can illustrate suggested or available scenes that have been identified by the computer system based upon the spreadsheet data . The types of tours and or scenes that are referenced by the auto tour suggestion icons can be specified by program settings user settings analysis of the spreadsheet data combinations thereof or the like. As such the example tours or scenes shown in should be understood as being illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

Selection of the auto tour suggestion icons can cause the computer system to generate an auto tour as described above with reference to and or to create a scene for adding to a tour. As such selection of one of the auto tour suggestion icons can cause the computer system to generate a scene and or to generate a tour with one or more scenes. The auto tour selection window also can include a UI control for accessing or viewing additional auto tour or auto scene options. Thus for example selection of the UI control can cause the computer system to present additional and or alternative auto tour suggestion icons . It should be understood that this embodiment is illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

Thus it can be appreciated that selection of one or more of the auto tour suggestion icons can cause the computer system to generate an auto tour. Thus a user may generate a tour add scenes to the tour and or organize the scenes of the tour as described herein with reference to by selecting the auto tour UI control illustrated and described in . It should be understood that this embodiment is illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

Turning to additional aspects of the concepts and technologies disclosed herein for transitions and effects of auto tours in a spreadsheet application are described in detail. In particular shows Scene 1 and Scene 2 . As described above a transition having a duration occurs between Scene 1 and Scene 2 . Some examples of transitions include but are not limited to a cut transition and an arc transition. A cut transition displays a scene and then switches to a new scene within one frame. The camera doesn t move along a path but rather the camera appears instantly at the new location i.e. the transition s duration is essentially zero. In some implementations cut transition are automatically applied to the first scene in the tour. In the first scene all transition options may be disabled. If a scene is moved to the first position by a user or as a result of deleting data the scene s transition may be reset to cut. If the first scene is moved to a different position then it is assigned the default transition parameters.

An arc transition has a visual appearance that appears to simulate the flight path of an aircraft flying from airport to airport or from Point A to Point B . The camera and its look at target ease out of their last positions in the source location while the camera increases its elevation to a specified height and the look at target moves along the ground. At the midpoint of the arc the camera begins to descend again and ease into the new scene position. The longer the flight path the steeper the arc. The height of arc may be generated automatically. In some implementations the transition calculates the height of its arc trajectory based on distance. In further implementations the transition calculates the speed with which the camera moves based on the duration.

The arc transition can begin and end ease in turns which are not affected by changes in duration. The turns which precede the transition may also be calculated automatically depending where the next scene is located. The turns for the transition may change depending on the type of effect as well as the duration of the scene. Calculations may be performed done to optimize the turns as well as the transition for the least amount of turning and for keeping the next target in view. A target is the center view point at which the scene is captured. The target of a scene is typically in the middle and it is anchored using geographical coordinates.

While a transition may be used between scenes an effect may be used within a scene itself. Some examples of effects include but are not limited to still orbit fly by idle fly over and push in. In a still effect the camera stays still for the duration of the scene or if the duration is 0 then all the camera parameters can be smoothly interpolated through the scene as if it is a key frame. As used herein a key frame is a drawing that defines the starting and end points of any smooth transition or effect. An orbit is a circular path placed above the data at the elevation at which the user captured the scene. The radius of the orbit can be calculated depending on the distance of the target scene.

In a fly by the camera moves along a perpendicular path to a look at vector. The camera is pointed directly at the target. The distance traveled is depending on the distance at which the scene was captured as well as the duration of the scene and the speed chosen by the user. The middle of the line is the same point at which the user captured the scene. In a idle the camera moves around same spot in a movement. In a fly over the camera flies directly over the center of a target. The camera is pointed such that the target is in view at the start of the flight effect and it files right over it towards the end of the scene. The camera looks down at an angle towards the target. In a push in the camera travels directly towards the center of the scene target. It stops at a predetermined distance from the target. The stop is the end of the scene.

Although not shown in the UI diagrams illustrated and described above with reference to some embodiments of the concepts and technologies disclosed herein include a UI control for exporting a tour. The tour can be exported as a tour file a video file an audio video presentation and or other formats. In some embodiments the tour can be exported as a video file that can be played on any device capable of audio and or video playback. The tour also can be exported as other types of files and or to other types of programs such as slide show presentation programs movie editor programs image editing programs other programs or the like. The tour also can be exported as a web page or web page element in some embodiments. As such it can be appreciated that the tours can be played continuously and or may pause at the end of a scene until user input for proceeding to a next scene is received or detected by the computer system . The user interfaces also can support selection and or placement of an audio track in the tour. The audio track can correspond for example to music spoken words explaining the data shown other audio combinations thereof or the like. As such it should be understood that operations and or of the methods discussed above can correspond to exporting the tour as a video file. It should be understood that these embodiments are illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

Although not illustrated in it should be understood that that the scenes and or tours also can include two dimensional images. Thus for example a scene or tour can include text title pages credits images logos other information combinations thereof or the like. The scenes and or tours also can include links for example links to other scenes tours or document locations.

In some embodiments of the concepts and technologies disclosed herein the visualization component can be configured to apply themes to tours. Thus transitions effects animation speed audio accompaniment combinations thereof or the like can be applied to scenes and or tours by the visualization component . Thus the viewing angles transitions data formats and or other aspects of a scene can be set by a template or theme and or applied to a tour or scene by the visualization component . It should be understood that this embodiment is illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

While the above description of scenes and tours refers to various animations and or animation effects it should be understood that the tours and or scenes of the tours need not be animated. In particular some embodiments of the concepts and technologies described herein can be used to provide a tour that begins with a first location and cuts to a second location without animation. As such it should be understood that the above example embodiments are illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

The computer architecture illustrated in includes a central processing unit CPU a system memory including a random access memory RAM and a read only memory ROM and a system bus that couples the memory to the CPU . A basic input output system containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within the computer architecture such as during startup is stored in the ROM . The computer architecture further includes a mass storage device for storing the operating system and one or more application programs including but not limited to the spreadsheet application the visualization component other application programs or the like. Although not shown in the mass storage device also can be configured to store the spreadsheet data the geographic mapping data the map data and or graphical data corresponding to one or more of the UIs described herein if desired.

The mass storage device is connected to the CPU through a mass storage controller not shown connected to the bus . The mass storage device and its associated computer readable media provide non volatile storage for the computer architecture . Although the description of computer readable media contained herein refers to a mass storage device such as a hard disk or CD ROM drive it should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that computer readable media can be any available computer storage media or communication media that can be accessed by the computer architecture .

Communication media includes computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics changed or set in a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media. Combinations of the any of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

By way of example and not limitation computer storage media may include volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. For example computer media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EPROM EEPROM flash memory or other solid state memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD HD DVD BLU RAY or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the computer architecture . For purposes of the claims the phrase computer storage medium and variations thereof does not include waves or signals per se and or communication media.

According to various embodiments the computer architecture may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to remote computers through a network such as the network . The computer architecture may connect to the network through a network interface unit connected to the bus . It should be appreciated that the network interface unit also may be utilized to connect to other types of networks and remote computer systems such as for example the data source the geocoding services the map server the user computing device and or other systems or devices. The computer architecture also may include an input output controller for receiving and processing input from a number of other devices including a keyboard mouse or electronic stylus not shown in . Similarly the input output controller may provide output to a display screen a printer or other type of output device also not shown in .

It should be appreciated that the software components described herein may when loaded into the CPU and executed transform the CPU and the overall computer architecture from a general purpose computing system into a special purpose computing system customized to facilitate the functionality presented herein. The CPU may be constructed from any number of transistors or other discrete circuit elements which may individually or collectively assume any number of states. More specifically the CPU may operate as a finite state machine in response to executable instructions contained within the software modules disclosed herein. These computer executable instructions may transform the CPU by specifying how the CPU transitions between states thereby transforming the transistors or other discrete hardware elements constituting the CPU .

Encoding the software modules presented herein also may transform the physical structure of the computer readable media presented herein. The specific transformation of physical structure may depend on various factors in different implementations of this description. Examples of such factors may include but are not limited to the technology used to implement the computer readable media whether the computer readable media is characterized as primary or secondary storage and the like. For example if the computer readable media is implemented as semiconductor based memory the software disclosed herein may be encoded on the computer readable media by transforming the physical state of the semiconductor memory. For example the software may transform the state of transistors capacitors or other discrete circuit elements constituting the semiconductor memory. The software also may transform the physical state of such components in order to store data thereupon.

As another example the computer readable media disclosed herein may be implemented using magnetic or optical technology. In such implementations the software presented herein may transform the physical state of magnetic or optical media when the software is encoded therein. These transformations may include altering the magnetic characteristics of particular locations within given magnetic media. These transformations also may include altering the physical features or characteristics of particular locations within given optical media to change the optical characteristics of those locations. Other transformations of physical media are possible without departing from the scope and spirit of the present description with the foregoing examples provided only to facilitate this discussion.

In light of the above it should be appreciated that many types of physical transformations take place in the computer architecture in order to store and execute the software components presented herein. It also should be appreciated that the computer architecture may include other types of computing devices including hand held computers embedded computer systems personal digital assistants and other types of computing devices known to those skilled in the art. It is also contemplated that the computer architecture may not include all of the components shown in may include other components that are not explicitly shown in or may utilize an architecture completely different than that shown in .

According to various implementations the distributed computing environment includes a computing environment operating on in communication with or as part of the network . The network also can include various access networks. According to various implementations the functionality of the network can be provided by the network illustrated in . One or more client devices A N hereinafter referred to collectively and or generically as clients can communicate with the computing environment via the network and or other connections not illustrated in . In the illustrated embodiment the clients include a computing device A such as a laptop computer a desktop computer or other computing device a slate or tablet computing device tablet computing device B a mobile computing device C such as a mobile telephone a smart phone or other mobile computing device a server computer D and or other devices N. It should be understood that any number of clients can communicate with the computing environment . Two example computing architectures for the clients are illustrated and described herein with reference to . It should be understood that the illustrated clients and computing architectures illustrated and described herein are illustrative and should not be construed as being limited in any way.

In the illustrated embodiment the computing environment includes application servers data storage and one or more network interfaces . According to various implementations the functionality of the application servers can be provided by one or more server computers that are executing as part of or in communication with the network . The application servers can host various services virtual machines portals and or other resources. In the illustrated embodiment the application servers host one or more virtual machines for hosting applications or other functionality. According to various implementations the virtual machines host one or more applications and or software modules for providing the functionality described herein for generating scenes and tours in a spreadsheet application. It should be understood that this embodiment is illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way. The application servers also host or provide access to one or more Web portals link pages Web sites and or other information Web portals .

According to various implementations the application servers also include one or more mailbox services and one or more messaging services . The mailbox services can include electronic mail email services. The mailbox services also can include various personal information management PIM services including but not limited to calendar services contact management services collaboration services and or other services. The messaging services can include but are not limited to instant messaging services chat services forum services and or other communication services.

The application servers also can include one or more social networking services . The social networking services can include various social networking services including but not limited to services for sharing or posting status updates instant messages links photos videos and or other information services for commenting or displaying interest in articles products blogs or other resources and or other services. In some embodiments the social networking services are provided by or include the FACEBOOK social networking service the LINKEDIN professional networking service the MYSPACE social networking service the FOURSQUARE geographic networking service the YAMMER office colleague networking service and the like. In other embodiments the social networking services are provided by other services sites and or providers that may or may not explicitly be known as social networking providers. For example some web sites allow users to interact with one another via email chat services and or other means during various activities and or contexts such as reading published articles commenting on goods or services publishing collaboration gaming and the like. Examples of such services include but are not limited to the WINDOWS LIVE service and the XBOX LIVE service from Microsoft Corporation in Redmond Wash. Other services are possible and are contemplated.

The social networking services also can include commenting blogging and or microblogging services. Examples of such services include but are not limited to the YELP commenting service the KUDZU review service the OFFICETALK enterprise microblogging service the TWITTER messaging service the GOOGLE BUZZ service and or other services. It should be appreciated that the above lists of services are not exhaustive and that numerous additional and or alternative social networking services are not mentioned herein for the sake of brevity. As such the above embodiments are illustrative and should not be construed as being limited in any way.

As shown in the application servers also can host other services applications portals and or other resources other resources . The other resources can include but are not limited to the geocoding services the map server the data source and or other services and or resources. It thus can be appreciated that the computing environment can provide integration of the concepts and technologies disclosed herein provided herein for generating scenes and tours in a spreadsheet application with various mailbox messaging social networking and or other services or resources. For example the concepts and technologies disclosed herein can support sharing visualizations with social network users mail recipients message recipients or the like. Similarly users or other entities can share visualizations and or spreadsheet data with social networking users friends connections mail recipients systems or devices combinations thereof or the like.

As mentioned above the computing environment can include the data storage . According to various implementations the functionality of the data storage is provided by one or more databases operating on or in communication with the network . The functionality of the data storage also can be provided by one or more server computers configured to host data for the computing environment . The data storage can include host or provide one or more real or virtual datastores A N hereinafter referred to collectively and or generically as datastores . The datastores are configured to host data used or created by the application servers and or other data. Although not illustrated in the datastores also can host or store the operating system the spreadsheet application the visualization component graphics data corresponding to one or more UIs the spreadsheet data the geographic mapping data the map data combinations thereof or the like.

The computing environment can communicate with or be accessed by the network interfaces . The network interfaces can include various types of network hardware and software for supporting communications between two or more computing devices including but not limited to the clients and the application servers . It should be appreciated that the network interfaces also may be utilized to connect to other types of networks and or computer systems.

It should be understood that the distributed computing environment described herein can provide any aspects of the software elements described herein with any number of virtual computing resources and or other distributed computing functionality that can be configured to execute any aspects of the software components disclosed herein. According to various implementations of the concepts and technologies disclosed herein the distributed computing environment provides the software functionality described herein as a service to the clients . It should be understood that the clients can include real or virtual machines including but not limited to server computers web servers personal computers mobile computing devices smart phones and or other devices. As such various embodiments of the concepts and technologies disclosed herein enable any device configured to access the distributed computing environment to utilize the functionality described herein for generating scenes and tours in a spreadsheet application.

Turning now to an illustrative computing device architecture for a computing device that is capable of executing various software components described herein for generating scenes and tours in a spreadsheet application. The computing device architecture is applicable to computing devices that facilitate mobile computing due in part to form factor wireless connectivity and or battery powered operation. In some embodiments the computing devices include but are not limited to mobile telephones tablet devices slate devices portable video game devices and the like. Moreover the computing device architecture is applicable to any of the clients shown in . Furthermore aspects of the computing device architecture may be applicable to traditional desktop computers portable computers e.g. laptops notebooks ultra portables and netbooks server computers and other computer systems such as described herein with reference to . For example the single touch and multi touch aspects disclosed herein below may be applied to desktop computers that utilize a touchscreen or some other touch enabled device such as a touch enabled track pad or touch enabled mouse.

The computing device architecture illustrated in includes a processor memory components network connectivity components sensor components input output components and power components . In the illustrated embodiment the processor is in communication with the memory components the network connectivity components the sensor components the input output I O components and the power components . Although no connections are shown between the individuals components illustrated in the components can interact to carry out device functions. In some embodiments the components are arranged so as to communicate via one or more busses not shown .

The processor includes a central processing unit CPU configured to process data execute computer executable instructions of one or more application programs and communicate with other components of the computing device architecture in order to perform various functionality described herein. The processor may be utilized to execute aspects of the software components presented herein and particularly those that utilize at least in part a touch enabled input.

In some embodiments the processor includes a graphics processing unit GPU configured to accelerate operations performed by the CPU including but not limited to operations performed by executing general purpose scientific and engineering computing applications as well as graphics intensive computing applications such as high resolution video e.g. 720p 1080p and greater video games three dimensional modeling applications and the like. In some embodiments the processor is configured to communicate with a discrete GPU not shown . In any case the CPU and GPU may be configured in accordance with a co processing CPU GPU computing model wherein the sequential part of an application executes on the CPU and the computationally intensive part is accelerated by the GPU.

In some embodiments the processor is or is included in a system on chip SoC along with one or more of the other components described herein below. For example the SoC may include the processor a GPU one or more of the network connectivity components and one or more of the sensor components . In some embodiments the processor is fabricated in part utilizing a package on package PoP integrated circuit packaging technique. Moreover the processor may be a single core or multi core processor.

The processor may be created in accordance with an ARM architecture available for license from ARM HOLDINGS of Cambridge United Kingdom. Alternatively the processor may be created in accordance with an x86 architecture such as is available from INTEL CORPORATION of Mountain View Calif. and others. In some embodiments the processor is a SNAPDRAGON SoC available from QUALCOMM of San Diego Calif. a TEGRA SoC available from NVIDIA of Santa Clara Calif. a HUMMINGBIRD SoC available from SAMSUNG of Seoul South Korea an Open Multimedia Application Platform OMAP SoC available from TEXAS INSTRUMENTS of Dallas Tex. a customized version of any of the above SoCs or a proprietary SoC.

The memory components include a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an integrated storage memory integrated storage and a removable storage memory removable storage . In some embodiments the RAM or a portion thereof the ROM or a portion thereof and or some combination the RAM and the ROM is integrated in the processor . In some embodiments the ROM is configured to store a firmware an operating system or a portion thereof e.g. operating system kernel and or a bootloader to load an operating system kernel from the integrated storage or the removable storage .

The integrated storage can include a solid state memory a hard disk or a combination of solid state memory and a hard disk. The integrated storage may be soldered or otherwise connected to a logic board upon which the processor and other components described herein also may be connected. As such the integrated storage is integrated in the computing device. The integrated storage is configured to store an operating system or portions thereof application programs data and other software components described herein.

The removable storage can include a solid state memory a hard disk or a combination of solid state memory and a hard disk. In some embodiments the removable storage is provided in lieu of the integrated storage . In other embodiments the removable storage is provided as additional optional storage. In some embodiments the removable storage is logically combined with the integrated storage such that the total available storage is made available and shown to a user as a total combined capacity of the integrated storage and the removable storage .

The removable storage is configured to be inserted into a removable storage memory slot not shown or other mechanism by which the removable storage is inserted and secured to facilitate a connection over which the removable storage can communicate with other components of the computing device such as the processor . The removable storage may be embodied in various memory card formats including but not limited to PC card CompactFlash card memory stick secure digital SD miniSD microSD universal integrated circuit card UICC e.g. a subscriber identity module SIM or universal SIM USIM a proprietary format or the like.

It can be understood that one or more of the memory components can store an operating system. According to various embodiments the operating system includes but is not limited to SYMBIAN OS from SYMBIAN LIMITED WINDOWS MOBILE OS from Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash. WINDOWS PHONE OS from Microsoft Corporation WINDOWS from Microsoft Corporation PALM WEBOS from Hewlett Packard Company of Palo Alto Calif. BLACKBERRY OS from Research In Motion Limited of Waterloo Ontario Canada IOS from Apple Inc. of Cupertino Calif. and ANDROID OS from Google Inc. of Mountain View Calif. Other operating systems are contemplated.

The network connectivity components include a wireless wide area network component WWAN component a wireless local area network component WLAN component and a wireless personal area network component WPAN component . The network connectivity components facilitate communications to and from a network which may be a WWAN a WLAN or a WPAN. Although a single network is illustrated the network connectivity components may facilitate simultaneous communication with multiple networks. For example the network connectivity components may facilitate simultaneous communications with multiple networks via one or more of a WWAN a WLAN or a WPAN.

In some embodiments the network can correspond to the network and or the network illustrated and described in . In some other embodiments the network can include the network illustrated and described with reference to and or the network illustrated and described in . In yet other embodiments the network can provide access to the network illustrated and described with reference to and or the network illustrated and described in .

The network may be a WWAN such as a mobile telecommunications network utilizing one or more mobile telecommunications technologies to provide voice and or data services to a computing device utilizing the computing device architecture via the WWAN component . The mobile telecommunications technologies can include but are not limited to Global System for Mobile communications GSM Code Division Multiple Access CDMA ONE CDMA2000 Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS Long Term Evolution LTE and Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX . Moreover the network may utilize various channel access methods which may or may not be used by the aforementioned standards including but not limited to Time Division Multiple Access TDMA Frequency Division Multiple Access FDMA CDMA wideband CDMA W CDMA Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing OFDM Space Division Multiple Access SDMA and the like. Data communications may be provided using General Packet Radio Service GPRS Enhanced Data rates for Global Evolution EDGE the High Speed Packet Access HSPA protocol family including High Speed Downlink Packet Access HSDPA Enhanced Uplink EUL or otherwise termed High Speed Uplink Packet Access HSUPA Evolved HSPA HSPA LTE and various other current and future wireless data access standards. The network may be configured to provide voice and or data communications with any combination of the above technologies. The network may be configured to or adapted to provide voice and or data communications in accordance with future generation technologies.

In some embodiments the WWAN component is configured to provide dual multi mode connectivity to the network . For example the WWAN component may be configured to provide connectivity to the network wherein the network provides service via GSM and UMTS technologies or via some other combination of technologies. Alternatively multiple WWAN components may be utilized to perform such functionality and or provide additional functionality to support other non compatible technologies i.e. incapable of being supported by a single WWAN component . The WWAN component may facilitate similar connectivity to multiple networks e.g. a UMTS network and an LTE network .

The network may be a WLAN operating in accordance with one or more Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers IEEE 802.11 standards such as IEEE 802.11a 802.11b 802.11g 802.11n and or future 802.11 standard referred to herein collectively as WI FI . Draft 802.11 standards are also contemplated. In some embodiments the WLAN is implemented utilizing one or more wireless WI FI access points. In some embodiments one or more of the wireless WI FI access points are another computing device with connectivity to a WWAN that are functioning as a WI FI hotspot. The WLAN component is configured to connect to the network via the WI FI access points. Such connections may be secured via various encryption technologies including but not limited WI FI Protected Access WPA WPA2 Wired Equivalent Privacy WEP and the like.

The network may be a WPAN operating in accordance with Infrared Data Association IrDA BLUETOOTH wireless Universal Serial Bus USB Z Wave ZIGBEE or some other short range wireless technology. In some embodiments the WPAN component is configured to facilitate communications with other devices such as peripherals computers or other computing devices via the WPAN.

The sensor components include a magnetometer an ambient light sensor a proximity sensor an accelerometer a gyroscope and a Global Positioning System sensor GPS sensor . It is contemplated that other sensors such as but not limited to temperature sensors or shock detection sensors also may be incorporated in the computing device architecture .

The magnetometer is configured to measure the strength and direction of a magnetic field. In some embodiments the magnetometer provides measurements to a compass application program stored within one of the memory components in order to provide a user with accurate directions in a frame of reference including the cardinal directions north south east and west. Similar measurements may be provided to a navigation application program that includes a compass component. Other uses of measurements obtained by the magnetometer are contemplated.

The ambient light sensor is configured to measure ambient light. In some embodiments the ambient light sensor provides measurements to an application program stored within one the memory components in order to automatically adjust the brightness of a display described below to compensate for low light and high light environments. Other uses of measurements obtained by the ambient light sensor are contemplated.

The proximity sensor is configured to detect the presence of an object or thing in proximity to the computing device without direct contact. In some embodiments the proximity sensor detects the presence of a user s body e.g. the user s face and provides this information to an application program stored within one of the memory components that utilizes the proximity information to enable or disable some functionality of the computing device. For example a telephone application program may automatically disable a touchscreen described below in response to receiving the proximity information so that the user s face does not inadvertently end a call or enable disable other functionality within the telephone application program during the call. Other uses of proximity as detected by the proximity sensor are contemplated.

The accelerometer is configured to measure proper acceleration. In some embodiments output from the accelerometer is used by an application program as an input mechanism to control some functionality of the application program. For example the application program may be a video game in which a character a portion thereof or an object is moved or otherwise manipulated in response to input received via the accelerometer . In some embodiments output from the accelerometer is provided to an application program for use in switching between landscape and portrait modes calculating coordinate acceleration or detecting a fall. Other uses of the accelerometer are contemplated.

The gyroscope is configured to measure and maintain orientation. In some embodiments output from the gyroscope is used by an application program as an input mechanism to control some functionality of the application program. For example the gyroscope can be used for accurate recognition of movement within a three dimensional environment of a video game application or some other application. In some embodiments an application program utilizes output from the gyroscope and the accelerometer to enhance control of some functionality of the application program. Other uses of the gyroscope are contemplated.

The GPS sensor is configured to receive signals from GPS satellites for use in calculating a location. The location calculated by the GPS sensor may be used by any application program that requires or benefits from location information. For example the location calculated by the GPS sensor may be used with a navigation application program to provide directions from the location to a destination or directions from the destination to the location. Moreover the GPS sensor may be used to provide location information to an external location based service such as E911 service. The GPS sensor may obtain location information generated via WI FI WIMAX and or cellular triangulation techniques utilizing one or more of the network connectivity components to aid the GPS sensor in obtaining a location fix. The GPS sensor may also be used in Assisted GPS A GPS systems.

The I O components include a display a touchscreen a data I O interface component data I O an audio I O interface component audio I O a video I O interface component video I O and a camera . In some embodiments the display and the touchscreen are combined. In some embodiments two or more of the data I O component the audio I O component and the video I O component are combined. The I O components may include discrete processors configured to support the various interface described below or may include processing functionality built in to the processor .

The display is an output device configured to present information in a visual form. In particular the display may present graphical user interface GUI elements text images video notifications virtual buttons virtual keyboards messaging data Internet content device status time date calendar data preferences map information location information and any other information that is capable of being presented in a visual form. In some embodiments the display is a liquid crystal display LCD utilizing any active or passive matrix technology and any backlighting technology if used . In some embodiments the display is an organic light emitting diode OLED display. Other display types are contemplated.

The touchscreen is an input device configured to detect the presence and location of a touch. The touchscreen may be a resistive touchscreen a capacitive touchscreen a perceptive pixel touchscreen a surface acoustic wave touchscreen an infrared touchscreen an optical imaging touchscreen a dispersive signal touchscreen an acoustic pulse recognition touchscreen or may utilize any other touchscreen technology. In some embodiments the touchscreen is incorporated on top of the display as a transparent layer to enable a user to use one or more touches to interact with objects or other information presented on the display . In other embodiments the touchscreen is a touch pad incorporated on a surface of the computing device that does not include the display . For example the computing device may have a touchscreen incorporated on top of the display and a touch pad on a surface opposite the display .

In some embodiments the touchscreen is a single touch touchscreen. In other embodiments the touchscreen is a multi touch touchscreen. In some embodiments the touchscreen is configured to detect discrete touches single touch gestures and or multi touch gestures. These are collectively referred to herein as gestures for convenience. Several gestures will now be described. It should be understood that these gestures are illustrative and are not intended to limit the scope of the appended claims. Moreover the described gestures additional gestures and or alternative gestures may be implemented in software for use with the touchscreen . As such a developer may create gestures that are specific to a particular application program.

In some embodiments the touchscreen supports a tap gesture in which a user taps the touchscreen once on an item presented on the display . The tap gesture may be used for various reasons including but not limited to opening or launching whatever the user taps. In some embodiments the touchscreen supports a double tap gesture in which a user taps the touchscreen twice on an item presented on the display . The double tap gesture may be used for various reasons including but not limited to zooming in or zooming out in stages. In some embodiments the touchscreen supports a tap and hold gesture in which a user taps the touchscreen and maintains contact for at least a pre defined time. The tap and hold gesture may be used for various reasons including but not limited to opening a context specific menu.

In some embodiments the touchscreen supports a pan gesture in which a user places a finger on the touchscreen and maintains contact with the touchscreen while moving the finger on the touchscreen . The pan gesture may be used for various reasons including but not limited to moving through screens images or menus at a controlled rate. Multiple finger pan gestures are also contemplated. In some embodiments the touchscreen supports a flick gesture in which a user swipes a finger in the direction the user wants the screen to move. The flick gesture may be used for various reasons including but not limited to scrolling horizontally or vertically through menus or pages. In some embodiments the touchscreen supports a pinch and stretch gesture in which a user makes a pinching motion with two fingers e.g. thumb and forefinger on the touchscreen or moves the two fingers apart. The pinch and stretch gesture may be used for various reasons including but not limited to zooming gradually in or out of a website visualization data set data representation map picture combinations thereof or the like. Additionally or alternatively a double finger touch gesture can be used to place a camera or viewpoint in a scene and or orbit a target or the like.

Although the above gestures have been described with reference to the use one or more fingers for performing the gestures other appendages such as toes or objects such as styluses may be used to interact with the touchscreen . As such the above gestures should be understood as being illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

The data I O interface component is configured to facilitate input of data to the computing device and output of data from the computing device. In some embodiments the data I O interface component includes a connector configured to provide wired connectivity between the computing device and a computer system for example for synchronization operation purposes. The connector may be a proprietary connector or a standardized connector such as USB micro USB mini USB or the like. In some embodiments the connector is a dock connector for docking the computing device with another device such as a docking station audio device e.g. a digital music player or video device.

The audio I O interface component is configured to provide audio input and or output capabilities to the computing device. In some embodiments the audio I O interface component includes a microphone configured to collect audio signals. In some embodiments the audio I O interface component includes a headphone jack configured to provide connectivity for headphones or other external speakers. In some embodiments the audio interface component includes a speaker for the output of audio signals. In some embodiments the audio I O interface component includes an optical audio cable out.

The video I O interface component is configured to provide video input and or output capabilities to the computing device. In some embodiments the video I O interface component includes a video connector configured to receive video as input from another device e.g. a video media player such as a DVD or BLU RAY player or send video as output to another device e.g. a monitor a television or some other external display . In some embodiments the video I O interface component includes a High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI mini HDMI micro HDMI DisplayPort or proprietary connector to input output video content. In some embodiments the video I O interface component or portions thereof is combined with the audio I O interface component or portions thereof.

The camera can be configured to capture still images and or video. The camera may utilize a charge coupled device CCD or a complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS image sensor to capture images. In some embodiments the camera includes a flash to aid in taking pictures in low light environments. Settings for the camera may be implemented as hardware or software buttons.

Although not illustrated one or more hardware buttons may also be included in the computing device architecture . The hardware buttons may be used for controlling some operational aspect of the computing device. The hardware buttons may be dedicated buttons or multi use buttons. The hardware buttons may be mechanical or sensor based.

The illustrated power components include one or more batteries which can be connected to a battery gauge . The batteries may be rechargeable or disposable. Rechargeable battery types include but are not limited to lithium polymer lithium ion nickel cadmium and nickel metal hydride. Each of the batteries may be made of one or more cells.

The battery gauge can be configured to measure battery parameters such as current voltage and temperature. In some embodiments the battery gauge is configured to measure the effect of a battery s discharge rate temperature age and other factors to predict remaining life within a certain percentage of error. In some embodiments the battery gauge provides measurements to an application program that is configured to utilize the measurements to present useful power management data to a user. Power management data may include one or more of a percentage of battery used a percentage of battery remaining a battery condition a remaining time a remaining capacity e.g. in watt hours a current draw and a voltage.

The power components may also include a power connector which may be combined with one or more of the aforementioned I O components . The power components may interface with an external power system or charging equipment via a power I O component .

Based on the foregoing it should be appreciated that technologies for generating scenes and tours in a spreadsheet application have been disclosed herein. Although the subject matter presented herein has been described in language specific to computer structural features methodological and transformative acts specific computing machinery and computer readable media it is to be understood that the invention defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features acts or media described herein. Rather the specific features acts and mediums are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

The subject matter described above is provided by way of illustration only and should not be construed as limiting. Various modifications and changes may be made to the subject matter described herein without following the example embodiments and applications illustrated and described and without departing from the true spirit and scope of the present invention which is set forth in the following claims.

