---

title: Method and system for planning and management of digital events
abstract: A method and system is provided that manages events involving an individual's digital assets and/or external services that the individual interfaces with using external service credentials. The method and system allow the individual to securely store digital assets and external service credentials used to login to external services. The method and system further allow the individual to create a plan of actions to be executed on specified dates, where the actions involve one or more of the individual's digital assets and/or involve one or more external services that the individual interfaces with using one or more external service credentials. The plan of actions takes the format of a timeline that includes one or more timeline events, where an action and a date are associated with a timeline event.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09009803&OS=09009803&RS=09009803
owner: Capsoole, Inc.
number: 09009803
owner_city: Campbell
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130411
---
This application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 e of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 848 002 filed on Dec. 20 2012. The subject matter of the earlier filed application is hereby incorporated by reference.

Some embodiments of the invention relate generally to computer systems and particularly to computer systems that provide services for exchanging digital information such as email services social network services and electronic commerce services.

An individual s life is increasing more digital. For example an individual will likely communicate with friends and family using email services will create online personas using social network services will engage in electronic commerce transactions using electronic commerce services and engage in other digital services. In order to utilize such digital services a user must provide information to various digital service providers such as a name email address physical address password and credit card number. In addition the user may provide other types of information such as documents images and other electronic files to the digital service providers with the purpose of sharing the information with other individuals using one or more digital services. The amount of information provided to digital service providers can be vast due to the number of digital service providers that an individual can interact with and due to the amount of the information a user may be required or may desire to provide to each digital service provider. Management of this vast amount of information can be extremely challenging to an individual as there is generally no central mechanism for managing such a large amount of information. Further such information is generally retained by the digital service providers and can be vulnerable to mining and exploitation.

The difficulty of managing such information can be further increased when the individual dies or is otherwise incapacitated. This is because the individual is generally reluctant to share this information with or provide access to the information to other individuals due to a fear that the information will be compromised. Further an individual is generally reluctant to envision a scenario where he she is dead and incapacitated due to the discomfort associated with envisioning such a scenario. Thus the individual is unlikely to provide instructions to friends and family on how to manage the information provided to the digital service providers in light of the individual s death or incapacitation. The lack of access and or instructions can significantly increase the difficulty of managing the information in the event of the individual s death or incapacitation as it is generally difficult or impossible for the individual s friends or family members to recover such information from the various service providers without the explicit authorization of the individual.

According to an embodiment of the invention a method includes creating a user account for a digital event management server where the user account includes one or more attributes of a user of the digital event management server. The method further includes creating one or more external service credentials that are associated with the user account where an external service credential includes one or more parameters used to connect to an external service. The method further includes creating one or more timeline events that collectively form a timeline that is associated with the user account where a timeline event includes an action to be executed by a timeline server and a date the action is to be executed such as a relative date or an absolute date and where the timeline includes the one or more timeline events.

According to another embodiment an apparatus includes a processor configured to execute one or more modules. The apparatus further includes a memory configured to store one or more modules. The apparatus further includes a user account creation module configured to create a user account for a digital event management server where the user account includes one or more attributes of a user of the digital event management server. The apparatus further includes an external service credential creation module configured to create one or more external service credentials that are associated with the user account where an external service credential includes one or more parameters used to connect to an external service. The apparatus further includes a timeline event creation module configured to create one or more timeline events that collectively form a timeline that is associated with the user account where a timeline event includes an action to be executed by a timeline server and a date the action is to be executed such as a relative date or an absolute date and wherein the timeline includes the one or more timeline events.

According to another embodiment a non transitory computer readable medium including a computer program embodied therein is configured to control a processor to implement a method. The method includes creating a user account for a digital event management server where the user account includes one or more attributes of a user of the digital event management server. The method further includes creating one or more external service credentials that are associated with the user account where an external service credential includes one or more parameters used to connect to an external service. The method further includes creating one or more timeline events that collectively form a timeline that is associated with the user account where a timeline event includes an action to be executed by a timeline server and a date the action is to be executed such as a relative date or an absolute date and where the timeline includes the one or more timeline events.

According to another embodiment an apparatus includes means for creating a user account for a digital event management server where the user account includes one or more attributes of a user of the digital event management server. The apparatus further includes means for creating one or more external service credentials that are associated with the user account where an external service credential includes one or more parameters used to connect to an external service. The apparatus further includes means for creating one or more timeline events that collectively form a timeline that is associated with the user account where a timeline event includes an action to be executed by a timeline server and a date the action is to be executed such as a relative date or an absolute date and where the timeline includes the one or more timeline events.

It will be readily understood that the components of the present invention as generally described and illustrated in the figures herein may be arranged and designed in a wide variety of different configurations. Thus the following detailed description of the embodiments of a method apparatus system and computer readable medium as represented in the attached figures is not intended to limit the scope of the invention as claimed but is merely representative of selected embodiments of the invention.

The features structures or characteristics of the invention described throughout this specification may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments. For example the usage of the phrases certain embodiments some embodiments or other similar language throughout this specification refers to the fact that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment may be included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus appearances of the phrases in certain embodiments in some embodiments in other embodiments or other similar language throughout this specification do not necessarily all refer to the same group of embodiments and the described features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments.

A computer or device as understood by one of ordinary skill in the art is any programmable machine that receives input automatically stores and manipulates data and provides output. A computer program is any sequence of instructions written to perform a specific task on a computer and has an executable form that a computer typically through the use of a processor can use to execute the instructions. A computer module software module or module is any computer program or a portion thereof that encapsulates related functions. A computer application software application or application is any collection of computer programs and or modules. A computer network or network is any collection of computers interconnected by communication channels that facilitate communication among the computers.

In addition a service or web service as understood by one of ordinary skill in the art is a module or application designed to support interoperable computer to computer interaction over a network. A service can have an interface described in a computer processable format. A computer can interact with a service by sending messages over a network protocol. Examples of services are Big Web services and RESTful services. Big Web services are services that follow a Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP standard and use Extensible Markup Language XML messages. RESTful services are services that utilize a Representational State Transfer REST style of software architecture where clients are separate from servers by a uniform interface.

Furthermore a server is an example of a computer that includes a computer program or module whose instructions serve requests of other computer programs such as performing computation tasks on behalf of other computer programs. The term server can alternatively refer to the computer program or module that is executed on the computer. A client is an example of a computer that includes a computer program or module whose instructions access one or more services made available by a server. The term client can also alternatively refer to the computer program or module that is executed on the computer.

According to an embodiment a method and system is provided that can manage events involving an individual s digital assets and or external services that the individual interfaces with using external service credentials. Examples of such external services can include email services social network services and electronic commerce services. The method and system can further manage such events throughout the life of the individual and even after the death or an incapacitation of the individual. For example the individual can manage events such as sharing a picture or note with friends and family changing security settings associated with the individual s social network services in order to protect data configuring forwarding settings associated with the individual s email services deleting contacts from the individual s email services and social network services deleting archived email messages and initiating a shutdown of any automatic payments and or a deletion of credit cards associated with the individual s electronic commerce services.

According to the embodiment the method and system can allow the individual to securely store digital assets and external service credentials used to login to external services. The method and system can further allow the individual to create a plan of actions to be executed on specified relative dates or specified absolute dates where the actions can involve one or more of the individual s digital assets and or can involve one or more external services that the individual interfaces with using one or more external service credentials. The plan of actions can take the format of a timeline that includes one or more timeline events where an action and a date can be associated with a timeline event where the date is either a relative date or an absolute date. In accordance with the embodiment the timeline can be activated and executed in response to a trigger where the trigger can represent a significant occurrence such as the death or incapacitation of the individual . Alternatively the timeline can be activated and executed upon a specified date without the requirement of a trigger.

When the timeline is activated and executed each timeline event can be translated into executable instructions or actions where the executable instructions or actions can be executed within external services. Further the method and system can allow for secondary authentications before the timeline is activated and executed and can also provide an override mechanism so that the individual can override the activation and execution of the timeline. In certain embodiments the system can be a web based system and can allow an individual to manage digital assets residing on other systems and other electronic devices.

A computer readable medium may be any available medium that can be accessed by processor . A computer readable medium may include both a volatile and nonvolatile medium a removable and non removable medium and a storage medium. A storage medium may include RAM flash memory ROM erasable programmable read only memory EPROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM registers hard disk a removable disk a compact disc read only memory CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art.

Processor can also be operatively coupled via bus to a display such as a Liquid Crystal Display LCD . Display can display information to the user. A keyboard and a cursor control device such as a computer mouse can also be operatively coupled to bus to enable the user to interface with apparatus .

According to one embodiment memory can store software modules that may provide functionality when executed by processor . The modules can include an operating system a digital event management module as well as other functional modules . Operating system can provide an operating system functionality for apparatus . Digital event management module can provide functionality for managing events involving a user s digital assets and or external services that the user interfaces with using external service credentials. In certain embodiments digital event management module can comprise a plurality of modules that each provide specific individual functionality for managing events involving a user s digital assets and or external services that the user interfaces with using external service credentials. Apparatus can also be part of a larger system. Thus apparatus can include one or more additional functional modules to include the additional functionality.

Processor can also be operatively coupled via bus to a database . Database can store data in an integrated collection of logically related records or files. Database can be an operational database an analytical database a data warehouse a distributed database an end user database an external database a navigational database an in memory database a document oriented database a real time database a relational database an object oriented database or any other database known in the art.

According to the embodiment the system includes server . Server is a computer that includes one or more modules that can collectively manage events involving a user s digital assets and or external services that the user interfaces with using external service credentials. Server can be any type of computer known in the art such as a microcomputer a personal computer a desktop computer a laptop computer a notebook computer a minicomputer a mainframe computer a supercomputer or a workstation.

According to the embodiment the system further includes a digital event management server module which can be executed on server . Digital event management server module is a module that can include one or more computer programs that can provide functionality and model data entities used to provide the functionality. More specifically digital event management server module can provide functionality for managing events involving a user s digital assets and or external services that the user interfaces with using external service credentials. In certain embodiments the one or more computer programs of digital event management server module can be created using the Java programming language.

According to the embodiment the following functionality is example functionality provided by digital event management server module . For example digital event management server module can create one or more user accounts. A user account is a representation of a user of the system. By creating a user account digital event management server module allows a user to access the functionality provided by digital event management server module . A user account includes one or more attributes of the user. Example attributes can include a first name a last name an email address and a password. A user can use a user interface such as user interface which is described below in greater detail to provide digital event management server module with the one or more attributes. An example user interface for creating a user account is further described below in greater detail in relation to .

Digital event management server module can further create one or more external service credentials that are associated with a user account. An external service credential is a set of one or more parameters used to connect to an external service such as external services and which are described below in greater detail . More specifically the set of one or more parameters can be passed to an external service within a request to connect to the external service and the external service can validate the parameters and can send a response granting the request to connect to the external service. Example parameters can include a login and a password. A user can use a user interface such as user interface which is described below in greater detail to provide digital event management server module with the one or more parameters. An example user interface for creating an external service credential is further described below in greater detail in relation to .

As another example digital event management server module can create one or more trustees that are associated with a user account. A trustee is a representation of a trusted user who is affiliated with the user of the user account. A trustee can provide an activation code to digital event management server module where the activation code verifies a trigger that is associated with a timeline of one or more timeline events where the trigger is used to activate and execute the timeline. Examples of a trigger can include the death or incapacitation of the user of the user account. A trustee includes one or more attributes of the trustee. Example attributes can include a first name a last name an email address or an activation code. A trustee further includes one or more questions and answers that can be used to verify the trustee when the trustee provides the activation code to digital event management server module . More specifically when the trustee logs in digital event management server module can present the trustee with one or more of the questions. The trustee can provide the one or more answers for the one or more questions. If the one or more answers provided by the trustee match the stored one or more answers associated with the trustee digital event management server module can accept the activation code provided by the trustee. A user can use a user interface such as user interface which is described below in greater detail to provide digital event management server module with the one or more attributes. An example user interface for creating a trustee is further described below in greater detail in relation to .

Digital event management server module can further receive an activation code from one or more trustees where the provision of the activation code from the one or more trustees can represent a trigger associated with a timeline of one or more timeline events. Examples of a trigger can include the death or incapacitation of the user of the user account. Digital event management server module can further provide a set of questions associated with each trustee of the one or more trustees and can verify that a set of answers provided by each trustee matches a stored set of answers associated with each trustee. Thus digital event management server module can verify an identity of the one or more trustees.

As another example digital event management server module can further define an activation threshold where the activation threshold is a number of activation codes required to be received from trustees in order to activate and execute a timeline. This can provide flexibility to a user of the user account in allowing the user to define how many trustees are required to verify that a trigger has occurred before a timeline is activated and executed. A user can use a user interface such as user interface which is described below in greater detail to define an activation threshold. An example user interface for defining an activation threshold is further described below in greater detail in relation to .

As another example digital event management server module can further store one or more digital assets in a secure storage such as digital asset storage which is described below in greater detail where the one or more digital assets are associated with a user account. A digital asset is any digital information such as an item of text or media e.g. a document an image or a video stored within a digital format e.g. a computer file . A digital asset can include one or more attributes that are associated with the text media item stored within the digital format. An example of an attribute is an item of text that serves as a note that is associated with the digital asset. A user can use a user interface such as user interface which is described below in greater detail to upload the one or more digital assets to digital event management server module . An example user interface for storing a digital asset is further described below in greater detail in relation to .

As another example digital event management server module can further create one or more timeline events that collectively form a timeline that is associated with a user account where a timeline is a collection of one or more timeline events. A timeline event is an action to be executed by timeline server module such as timeline server module which is described below in greater detail . In certain embodiments the action can be executed at an external service using an external service integration module such as external service integration modules and which are described below in greater detail and an external service credential. In some of these embodiments the action can include performing a function within the external service using the integration module and the external service credential. In other embodiments the action can be an action performed on one or more digital assets but where the action is executed at server rather than at an external service. An example action includes publishing a digital asset within a user interface such as user interface which is described below in greater detail . In other embodiments the action can be executed at an external service using a third party external service integration module such as third party external service integration module which is described below in greater detail . In yet other embodiments the action can be executed at an external device using an external device integration module such as external device integration module which is described below in greater detail . In other embodiments the action can both be executed at an external service or an external device and can be performed on one or more digital assets. A timeline event also includes a date that the action is to be executed on. The date can be an absolute date or a relative date. An absolute date is a calendar date. A relative date is a date that is a specified time period subsequent to an activation of the timeline that the timeline event is part of. A timeline event can also include one or more attributes. Example attributes include an external service an event type one or more recipients a subject a message an attachment a repetition indicator that indicates whether the event is executed once or repeatedly performed and a relative date indicator that indicates a time period subsequent to an activation of the timeline that the event is to be executed. A user can use a user interface such as user interface which is described below in greater detail to provide digital event management server module with the one or more attributes. An example user interface for creating a timeline event is further described below in greater detail in relation to .

Digital event management server module can further validate one or more trustees. Digital event management server module can validate a trustee by receiving an activation code provided by the trustee and validating the activation code. Digital event management server module can further present the trustee with one or more of the questions. The trustee can provide the one or more answers for the one or more questions. If the one or more answers provided by the trustee match the stored one or more answers associated with the trustee digital event management server module can accept the activation code provided by the trustee. A user can use a user interface such as user interface which is described below in greater detail to provide digital event management server module with an activation code and to provide digital event management server module with one or more answers for one or more questions.

Digital event management server module can further model one or more data entities that can be utilized to manage events involving a user s digital assets and or external services that the user interfaces with using external service credentials. In an embodiment where the one or more programs of digital event management server module are created using a Java programming language the entities can be modeled solely using Java code with no external dependencies. According to the embodiment the following data entities are example data entities that can be modeled by digital event management server module .

Digital event management server module can model a User entity that represents a user account. In certain embodiments the User entity can be a primary class of the system. In an embodiment where the one or more programs of digital event management server module are created using a Java programming language the User entity can be an instance of a User.java class. The User entity can manage one or more trustees one or more digital assets one or more external service credentials and one or more timeline events. Starting at an instance of the User entity an entire object graph of data associated with a user of the system can be reached and can be self contained.

Digital event management server module can further model a Trustee entity that represents a trustee. In an embodiment where the one or more programs of digital event management server module are created using a Java programming language the Trustee entity can be an instance of a Trustee.java class. Further digital event management server module can further model an Event entity that represents a timeline event. In an embodiment where the one or more programs of digital event management server module are created using a Java programming language the Event entity can be an instance of an Event.java class. Additionally digital event management server module can further model a Service Credential entity that represents an external service credential. In an embodiment where the one or more programs of digital event management server module are created using a Java programming language the Service Credential entity can be an instance of ServiceCredential.java class.

Further digital event management server module can model an Asset entity that represents a digital asset. In an embodiment where the one or more programs of digital event management server module are created using a Java programming language the Asset entity can be an instance of an Asset.java class. Event further digital event management server module can model an Integration entity that represents an integration of an external service. In an embodiment where the one or more programs of digital event management server module are created using a Java programming language the Integration entity can be an instance of an Integration.java class. Also digital event management server module can model an Auth entity that represents a user authentication and storage service. In an embodiment where the one or more programs of digital event management server module are created using a Java programming language the Auth entity can be an instance of an Auth.java class.

The system further includes a digital asset storage . Digital asset storage is a secure storage configured to store one or more digital assets. Digital event management server module can securely store and retrieve one or more digital assets from digital asset storage . The one or more digital assets can be securely stored within and retrieved from digital asset storage using any storage mechanism that is known in the relevant art. Such a storage mechanism can include a key value storage mechanism.

The system further includes a timeline server module which can be executed on server . Timeline server module is a module that can receive a timeline from digital event management server module where the timeline has been activated by digital event management server module . More specifically digital event management server module can receive an activation code from a trustee. Digital event management server module can further receives one or more answers to one or more questions. Digital event management server module can further send a notification to the user notifying him of the activation. This provides the user an opportunity to override the activation. Digital event management server module can further send one or more notifications to one or more additional trustees. Digital event management server module can further request that the one or more additional trustees provide an activation code. Once an activation threshold has been met i.e. once a sufficient number of trustees have provided an activation code digital event management server module can further send the timeline to timeline server module for execution. Timeline server module can optionally wait a pre defined time period such as twenty four hours before executing the timeline.

Timeline server module can further execute the timeline by executing the one or more timeline events of the timeline. More specifically timeline server module can schedule each timeline event of the one or more timelines on a date that is associated with the corresponding timeline event. Further on the date timeline server module can execute an action associated with the timeline event where an action includes one or more executable instructions. In embodiments where the action involves an external service such as external services and which are described below in greater detail timeline server module can send the timeline event to an external service integration module such as external service integration modules and which are described below in greater detail . Timeline server module can further execute the timeline event at the external service using the external service integration module and an external service credential where the external service credential is used to connect to the external service. Further in other embodiments where the action involves an external service such as external service which is described below in greater detail timeline server module can send the timeline event to a third party external service integration module such as third party external service integration module which is described below in greater detail . Timeline server module can further execute the timeline event at the external service using the third party external service integration module and an external service credential where the external service credential is used to connect to the external service. In other embodiments where the action involves an external device such as external device which is described below in greater detail timeline server module can send the timeline event to an external device integration module such as external device integration module which is described below in greater detail . Timeline server module can further execute the timeline event at the external device using the external device integration module. Further in other embodiments timeline server module can execute the timeline event at server . In certain embodiments upon receiving a notification to cancel an activation of a timeline timeline service module can stop any timeline events that are currently executing and cancel any timeline events that are currently pending but have not yet been executed.

The system further includes a service integration application programming interface API which can be stored on server . Service integration API is an API that can be used by timeline server module to send one or more timeline events to one or more external service integration modules such as external service integration modules and which are described below in greater detail one or more third party external service integration modules such as third party external service integration module which is described below in greater detail or one or more external device integration modules such as external device integration module which is described below in greater detail . More specifically service integration API can provide one or more function definitions where an external service integration module a third party external service integration module or an external device integration module can provide one or more function implementations for at least one function definition of the one or more function definitions. Thus service integration API can be understood as an integration of the one or more external service integration modules third party external service integration modules and or external device integration modules. In certain embodiments service integration API can include a service package and a descriptor package. The service package provides base classes for the external service integration modules third party external service integration modules and or external device integration modules to implement. The descriptor package provides entities for the external service integration modules third party external service integration modules and or external device integration modules to describe themselves to the system with. An aim of the descriptor package is to facilitate generic user interface implementations which do not require any modifications where new external service integration modules third party external service integration modules and or external device integration modules are added to the system.

In certain embodiments service integration API can provide a metadata layer for use in generating one or more user interface elements. More specifically the metadata layer can be used by a user interface such as user interface which is described below in greater detail to generate user interface components and can be used by digital event management server module to facilitate interaction between the user and an external service integration module a third party external service integration module and or an external device integration module at the time the user is creating one or more timeline events.

According to an embodiment each external service has a name and description. The name can be used by the user interface to determine the location of one or more digital assets stored on a server that provides the external service. Further each external service has a set of one or more events where each event includes a name and description. This information can be used by the user interface to present the one or more events the external service provides and describe to the user what the one or more events do. Further each event can optionally include one or more parameters where each parameter can include a name and description. A parameter can also include additional metadata such as a data type of the parameter. The user interface can use this information to generate user interface components. For example if the data type of a parameter is declared as a Boolean data type then the user interface can represent that parameter as a checkbox. Further a parameter may be declared such that it requests an endpoint for the user interface to communicate with the external service integration module. For example a parameter may have a data type of List. In this case the parameter can indicate to the user interface that the value for the parameter can be selected from a list of options which are provided by the external service integration module via an endpoint.

The system further includes external service integration modules and which can be executed on server . External service integration modules and are each a module that can include one or more computer programs that can facilitate communication between timeline server module and an external service such as external services and which are described below in greater detail . Thus external service integration modules and allow the system to connect to one or more external services. More specifically external service integration modules and can each receive a timeline event from timeline server module and can execute an action of the timeline event at an external service such as external services and where an action can include one or more executable instructions. By executing an action at an external service external service integration modules and can each perform one or more functions within the external service. External service integration modules and can make use of one or more published integration methods where appropriate and can impersonate client side hypertext transfer protocol HTTP communications where no published integration methods are available. According to the embodiment each external service integration module can be associated with an external service. Thus in the illustrated embodiment external service integration module can be associated with external service and external service integration module can be associated with external service . Further in the illustrated embodiment external service integration module can connect to external service using an HTTP communication protocol and external service integration module can connect to external service using an HTTP communication protocol . Further external service integration module can use an external service credential to connect to external service and external service integration module can use a separate external service credential to connect to external service . In certain embodiments the one or more computer programs of external service integration modules and can be created using the Java programming language. One of ordinary skill in the art would readily appreciate that in alternate embodiments the system can include any number of external service integration modules.

In certain embodiments external service integration module can facilitate communication between timeline server module and an external service such as external service that is an external social network service. In these embodiments external service integration module can use one or more HTTP client impersonation methods to provide one or more functions that can be executed within the external social network service. Example functions include 1 List Friends 2 Post Status 3 Post Status with Image 4 Upload Image 5 Set Profile Picture 6 Send Message to Friend s 7 Delete All Messages 8 Delete Messages from User 9 List all Messages 10 Set Account as Memorial 11 Delete Account 12 Delete all Friends 13 Request Archive and 14 Get Archive.

In certain embodiments external service integration module can facilitate communication between timeline server module and an external service such as external service that is an external email service. In these embodiments external service integration module can make use of a simple mail transfer protocol SMTP and or an internet message access protocol IMAP to communicate with the external email service for the purpose of sending and receiving email messages inspecting downloading contents of various email folders and deleting email messages. External service integration module can further use a client library for accessing and editing one or more contacts of a user s email account. In these embodiments external service integration module can further use one or more HTTP client impersonation methods to provide one or more functions that can be executed within the external email service. Example functions include 1 Get Contacts 2 Send Email 3 Get All Messages 4 Get Messages Between 5 Delete All Messages 6 Delete Messages Between 7 Delete Contact 8 Delete All Contacts 9 Create Archive 10 Download Archive and 11 Delete Account.

In embodiments where the one or more computer programs of external service integration modules and can be created using the Java programming language external service integration modules and an each include one or more of the following Java packages 1 com.capsoole.store an embeddable key value store used to store cookies and for caching by HTTP client code 2 com.capsoole.webclient an API that performs HTTP client communications and parses hypertext markup language HTML data and JavaScript Object Notation JSON data or 3 com.capsoole.services.ServiceBase a base class for authenticated HTTP client sessions. In certain embodiments external service integration modules and can each include one or more third party Java libraries. Such third party Java libraries can include 1 Apache HTTP Client 2 JSON 3 Google Gdata 4 HTML parser or 5 Java Mail.

According to the embodiment the system further includes external services and . External services and are examples of an external service that the system can connect to where an external service is any service that is external to the system. An external service can be executed on any type of device such as an electronic device a mobile device a desktop computer a laptop computer a tablet computer or a smartphone. An example of an external service is an external email service such as the Gmail email service provided by Google the Yahoo Mail email service provided by Yahoo the Outlook.com email service provided by Microsoft or the AOL Mail email service provided by AOL . Another example of an external service is an external social network service such as the Facebook social network service provided by Facebook the LinkedIn social network service provided by LinkedIn the Google social network service provided by Google and the Twitter social network service provided by Twitter . Another example of an external service is an external electronic commerce service such as the eBay electronic commerce service provided by eBay the PayPal electronic commerce service provided by PayPal and the Amazon.com electronic commerce service provided by Amazon . One of ordinary skill in the art would readily appreciate that in alternate embodiments the system can connect to any number of external services.

The system further includes third party external service integration module . Third party external service integration module provides similar functionality as external service integration modules and but is provided by an external service provider of the external service. One of ordinary skill in the art would readily appreciate that in alternate embodiments the system can include any number of third party external service integration modules. According to the embodiment the system further includes external service . External service is an example of an external service that the system can connect to where an external service provider of the external service has also provided a third party external service integration module such as third party external service integration module . Further in the illustrated embodiment third party external service integration module can connect to external service using an HTTP communication protocol .

The system further includes external device integration module . External device integration module is a module that can include one or more computer programs that can facilitate communication between timeline server module and an external device such as external device which is described below in greater detail . Thus external device integration module allows the system to connect to one or more external devices. More specifically external device integration module can receive a timeline event from timeline server module and can execute an action of the timeline event at a software application or other software component of an external device such as external device where an action can include one or more executable instructions. By executing a software application or other software component of an external device external device integration module can perform one or more functions within the software application or other software component of the external device. An example of such a function includes deleting one or more contacts from the device. One of ordinary skill in the art would readily appreciate that in alternate embodiments the system can include any number of external device integration modules. According to the embodiment the system further includes external device . External device can be any type of device such as an electronic device a mobile device a desktop computer a laptop computer a tablet computer or a smartphone. Further in the illustrated embodiment external device integration module can connect to a software application or other software component of external device using an HTTP communication protocol .

In accordance with the embodiment the system further includes client . Client is a computer that includes one or more modules that that can collectively access one or more services on a remote server such as server . Client can be any kind of a computer such as a laptop computer a notebook computer a Palmtop computer a tablet computer a smartphone a smartbook a personal digital assistant PDA a minicomputer or an embedded computer. The system further includes user interface which can be executed on client . User interface is a component of the system that includes one or more computer programs that collectively allow a user of the system to interact with digital event management server module . More specifically user interface provides a graphical user interface that allows a user of the system to enter information. User interface subsequently transmits information to digital event management server module . User interface can further receive information from digital event management server module and display the information within the graphical user interface. User interface provides the following example functionality 1 allows a user to create one or more user accounts 2 allows a user to create one or more external service credentials 3 allows a user to create one or more trustees 4 allows a user to store one or more digital assets 5 allows a user to create one or more timeline events 6 allows a user to provide an activate code to activate a timeline and 7 allows a user to send a notification to cancel an activation of a timeline.

In certain embodiments the one or more computer programs of user interface can be created using one or more of the following languages 1 HTML 2 cascading style sheets CSS or 3 JavaScript. In some of these embodiments the one or more computer programs of user interface can be implemented using JQuery and or JQuery user interface toolkits. The one or more computer programs of user interface can make use of a JavaScript Asynchronous JavaScript and Extensible Markup Language AJAX library to call one or more functions of one or more REST endpoints. In these embodiments digital event management server module can include a JavaScript AJAX library as well. Further in some of these embodiments user interface can communicate with digital event management server module using a REST API . REST API is a REST style HTTP API that can expose functionality provided by digital event management server module to user interface or to any other user interface . In certain embodiments REST API can utilize a Java programming language API entitled Java API for RESTful Web Services JAX RS . REST API can utilize JAX RS via Apache Jersey which is an open source reference implementation of the JAX RS specification that is executed in a version of Apache Tomcat. Information can be transferred via REST API using JSON bindings for Java Architecture for XML Binding JAXB . According to some of the embodiments REST API can deviate from a pure REST style by not relying on HTTP error codes for communicating error conditions to user interface . Instead REST calls that result in an error condition within digital event management server module can rely on JSON message returned to user interface to communicate error conditions. In certain embodiments REST API can be found in an API class and in a com.capsoole.rest package stored on server . The com.capsoole.rest package can provide wrapper classes for serializing core classes into a JSON format.

In certain embodiments the majority of the REST endpoints can require a header in order to complete. The value of the header can be a transient authentication token which can be returned as a result of successfully authenticating a user s account credentials via a call to an authorize endpoint. A token can be valid for a pre specified time period such as two hours . If a token is not used for a smaller pre specified time period such as thirty minutes the token can expire sooner.

In certain embodiments the system can further include one or more third party libraries. In these embodiments the one or more third party libraries can include 1 Apache HTTP Client 2 JSON 3 Google Gdata 4 HTML parser 5 Java Mail 6 Apache Commons Validation 7 Guava 8 JSR305 9 Apache Commons Logging 10 Apache Commons Code 11 Apache HTTP Core 12 Apache Jersey Bundle 13 ASM 14 Jackson JAXB implementation 15 MIME pull 16 Apache Tomcat 17 JQuery or 18 JQuery UI.

Methods that can be implemented by a system such as the system illustrated in are now described. The steps of a method or algorithm described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a computer program executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A computer program may be embodied on a computer readable medium such as a storage medium. For example a computer program may reside in RAM flash memory ROM EPROM EEPROM registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium may be coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium may reside in an application specific integrated circuit ASIC . In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components.

At step zero or more external service credentials that are associated with the user account are created. An external service credential can include one or more parameters used to connect to an external service. The one or more parameters can include a login or a password. An external service can be a service that is external to a system and provided by an external system provider. Examples of an external service can include an external email service an external social network service or an external electronic commerce service. In certain embodiments step can be omitted. The flow then proceeds to step .

At step zero or more trustees that are associated with the user account are created. A trustee can include one or more attributes of a trusted user that is associated with the user. The one or more attributes can include a first name a last name an email address or an activation code. The trustee can further include one or more questions and answers. In certain embodiments step can be omitted. The flow then proceeds to step .

At step an activation threshold that is associated with the user account is defined. The activation threshold can include a number of activation codes required to activate a timeline. In certain embodiments step can be omitted. The flow then proceeds to step .

At step zero or more digital assets that are associated with the user account can be stored within the digital management server. A digital asset can include digital information stored in a digital format. In certain embodiments step can be omitted. The flow then proceeds to step .

At step one or more timeline events are defined where the one or more timeline events collectively form a timeline. A timeline event can include an action to be executed by a timeline server and a date the action is to be executed. In certain embodiments the date can be a relative date. In other embodiments the date can be an absolute date. Further the timeline can include the one or more timeline events. The flow then ends.

At step a notification that the activation code has been received by the trustee is sent to a user associated with the user account. In certain embodiments step can be omitted. The flow then proceeds to step .

At step a notification that the activation code has been received by the trustee is sent to at least one additional trustee associated with the user account. In certain embodiments step can be omitted. The flow then proceeds to step .

At step at least one additional trustee associated with the user account is requested to provide an activation code. In certain embodiments step can be omitted. The flow then proceeds to step .

At step it is determined whether an activation threshold associated with the user account has been met. The activation threshold can include a number of activation codes required to activate a timeline. Thus it can be determined whether a number of activation codes that have been received by trustees associated with the account is less than equal to or greater than the number of activation codes required to activate the timeline. If the activation threshold associated with the user account has not been met i.e. the number of activation codes that have been received by trustees associated with the account is less than the number of activation codes required to activate the timeline the flow returns to step . If the activation threshold associated with the user account has been met i.e. the number of activation codes that have been received by trustees associated with the account is equal to or greater than the number of activation codes required to activate the timeline the flow proceeds to .

At step the timeline is sent to a timeline server. The timeline can be sent to the timeline server by a digital event management server. The timeline can include one or more timeline events. The flow proceeds to step .

At step the timeline server waits a pre determined time period. An example pre determined time period can be twenty four hours. In certain embodiments step can be omitted. The flow proceeds to step .

At step the timeline server determines whether it has received a notification from the user associated with the user account to cancel activation of the timeline. If the timeline server has not received a notification from the user associated with the user account to cancel the activation of the timeline the flow proceeds to step . If the timeline server has received a notification from the user associated with the user account to cancel the activation of the timeline the flow proceeds to step .

At step the timeline server executes the timeline. The execution of the timeline is further described in greater detail in relation to . The flow then ends.

At step the timeline server cancels the activation of the timeline. The cancellation of the activation of the timeline can include stopping an execution of one or more timeline events of the timeline that are already executing and cancelling an execution of one or more timeline events of the timeline that are currently pending. The flow then ends.

At step the timeline server waits a pre determined time period. An example pre determined time period can be twenty four hours. In certain embodiments step can be omitted. The flow proceeds to step .

At step the timeline server schedules the one or more timeline events of the timeline on one or more dates. For each timeline event of the one or more timeline events the timeline server can identify a date associated with the timeline event and can schedule the timeline event on the identified date. The flow proceeds to step .

At step the timeline server determines whether it has received a notification from the user associated with the user account to cancel activation of the timeline. If the timeline server has not received a notification from the user associated with the user account to cancel the activation of the timeline the flow proceeds to step . If the timeline server has received a notification from the user associated with the user account to cancel the activation of the timeline the flow proceeds to step .

At step the timeline server sends the one or more timeline events to one or more external service integration modules. The sending the one or more timeline events to the one or more external service integration modules can include calling a function of the at least one external service integration module using a service integration application programming interface. In an alternate embodiment the timeline server can send the one or more timeline events to one or more third party external service integration modules. In another alternate embodiment the timeline server can send the one or more timeline events to one or more external device integration modules. In another alternate embodiment step can be omitted. The flow then proceeds to step .

At step the timeline server executes the one or more actions of the one or more timeline events at an external service using at least one external service integration module and at least one external service credential associated with the user account. The executing of the one or more actions of the one or more timeline events at the external service can include performing one or more functions within the external service using the at least one external service integration module and the at least one external service credential. In an alternate embodiment the timeline server executes the one or more actions of the one or more timeline events at the external service using at least one third party external service integration module. In another alternate embodiment the timeline server executes the one or more actions of the one or more timeline events at an external device using at least one external device integration module. In another alternate embodiment the timeline server executes the one or more actions of the one or more timeline events at the timeline server. The flow then ends.

At step the timeline server cancels an execution of one or more timeline events of the timeline that are currently pending. The flow then proceeds to step .

At step the timeline server stops an execution of one or more timeline events of the timeline that are already executing. The flow then ends.

Thus according to an embodiment a method and a system can be provided that can manage digital events. The method and system can provide the user with flexibility in managing digital assets and external service credentials among a plurality of external services. The method and system can further allow the user to create a plan for actions to be executed even after the individual has either died or become incapacitated. Thus the user is given the capability of managing his or her digital assets and online personas across a plurality of external services.

One having ordinary skill in the art will readily understand that the invention as discussed above may be practiced with steps in a different order and or with hardware elements in configurations which are different than those which are disclosed. Therefore although the invention has been described based upon these preferred embodiments it would be apparent to those of skill in the art that certain modifications variations and alternative constructions would be apparent while remaining within the spirit and scope of the invention. In order to determine the metes and bounds of the invention therefore reference should be made to the appended claims.

