---

title: Method and apparatus for callback processing in telecommunication capability opening
abstract: A method for callback processing in telecommunication capability opening, a telecommunication capability opening server, a client, and a telecommunication capability opening service system are disclosed. The method includes: receiving a telecommunication capability application programming interface (API) call request sent by a client, where the telecommunication capability API call request includes a callback information parameter; performing callback processing according to the telecommunication capability API call request, and generating a callback message according to the callback information parameter; and pushing the callback message to the client. The method may also include: initiating a telecommunication capability API call request to a telecommunication capability opening server, where the telecommunication capability API call request includes a callback information parameter; receiving a callback message pushed by the telecommunication capability opening server, and parsing the callback message; and determining, according to a parsing result, a function that callback processing needs, and calling the function.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08848893&OS=08848893&RS=08848893
owner: Huawei Technologies Co, Ltd.
number: 08848893
owner_city: Shenzhen
owner_country: CN
publication_date: 20130425
---
This application is a continuation of International Application No. PCT CN2011 074164 filed on May 17 2011 which claims priority to Chinese Patent Application No. 201010518890.7 filed on Oct. 25 2010 all of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties.

The present invention relates to the field of communication technologies and in particular to a method and an apparatus for callback processing in telecommunication capability opening.

Web based telecommunication capability is a critical technology in the integration between a telecommunication network and the traditional Internet and also a critical technology on the mobile Internet. The Web technology is a typical technology on the traditional Internet and is represented by the following three forms hypertext hypermedia and HyperText Transfer Protocol HTTP . The Web technology serves as a basis for website technologies and webpage technologies on the traditional Internet. The Web based telecommunication capability means that telecommunication capability is open to the traditional Internet in the form of an application programming interface API so that applications on the traditional Internet can call the telecommunication capability in Internet mode to form new applications.

The Web based telecommunication capability in the prior art focuses on a mode oriented to a service provider SP server. In this mode the telecommunication capability API is open to the SP after the SP signs an agreement with a telecommunication operator the SP server may call the telecommunication capability API provided by a telecommunication capability opening server the telecommunication capability opening server and the SP server establish communication by calling interfaces of each other.

However during the implementation of the present invention the inventor discovers that the current Web based telecommunication capability oriented to the SP server is not applicable to free developers directly and a callback technology in telecommunication capability opening is a main technology difficulty in achieving the Web based telecommunication capability oriented to free developers. The callback in telecommunication capability opening means that when the SP server calls a telecommunication capability API of the telecommunication capability opening server a Web service address of the SP server is used as a parameter sent to the telecommunication capability opening server. The telecommunication capability opening server when necessary calls a callback interface of the SP server by using the Web service address. At this time the called callback interface of the SP server implements message processing or a particular operation. For example when the SP server calls a telephony API of the telecommunication capability opening server the telecommunication capability opening server needs to provide the SP server with corresponding messages when the terminating party is busy or the terminating party is connected or the terminating party does not answer so that the SP server performs corresponding processing. In another example when the SP server calls a short messaging API of the telecommunication capability opening server the telecommunication capability opening server needs to provide the SP server with a corresponding message when a short message is sent successfully or unsuccessfully so that the SP server performs corresponding processing.

In a standard protocol oriented to the SP server the telecommunication capability opening service provider oriented to the SP server and the caller must have the capability of a Web server which requires the callee to be a Web server and open a callback interface so that the telecommunication capability opening server can call the interface when necessary. Because the SP server has the capability of the Web server the callback can be achieved. However for most free developers it is difficult to become SPs. Therefore in Web based telecommunication capability oriented to free developers a client for example a mobile phone needs to interconnect with the telecommunication capability opening server directly. That is the client needs to open Web services when running applications provided by the free developers so that the telecommunication capability opening server can call the Web services when necessary.

However in general in Web based telecommunication capability oriented to free developers a client device is incapable of acting as a Web server thus failing to achieve callback. As a result the current Web based telecommunication capability oriented to the SP server is not applicable to free developers directly.

An embodiment of the present invention provides a method for callback processing in telecommunication capability opening to achieve callback in telecommunication capability opening oriented to free developers so that Web based telecommunication capability oriented to free developers is easily achieved. The method includes receiving a telecommunication capability API call request sent by a client where the telecommunication capability API call request includes a callback information parameter performing call processing according to the telecommunication capability API call request and generating a callback message according to the callback information parameter and pushing the callback message to the client.

An embodiment of the present invention also provides a method for callback processing in telecommunication capability opening to achieve callback in telecommunication capability opening oriented to free developers so that Web based telecommunication capability oriented to free developers is easily achieved. The method includes initiating a telecommunication capability API call request to a telecommunication capability opening server where the telecommunication capability API call request includes a callback information parameter receiving a callback message generated according to the callback information parameter and pushed by the telecommunication capability opening server and parsing the callback message and determining according to a parsing result a function that callback processing needs and calling the function.

An embodiment of the present invention also provides a telecommunication capability opening server to achieve callback in telecommunication capability opening oriented to free developers so that Web based telecommunication capability oriented to free developers is easily achieved. The telecommunication capability opening server includes a receiving module configured to receive a telecommunication capability API call request sent by a client where the telecommunication capability API call request includes a callback information parameter a calling module configured to perform call processing according to the telecommunication capability API call request a callback message generating module configured to generate a callback message according to the callback information parameter and a callback implementing module configured to push the callback message to the client.

An embodiment of the present invention also provides a client to achieve callback in telecommunication capability opening oriented to free developers so that Web based telecommunication capability oriented to free developers is easily achieved. The client includes a call requesting module configured to initiate a telecommunication capability API call request to a telecommunication capability opening server where the telecommunication capability API call request includes a callback information parameter a receiving module configured to receive a callback message generated according to the callback information parameter and pushed by the telecommunication capability opening server and a callback processing module configured to parse the callback message determine according to a parsing result a function that callback processing needs and call the function.

An embodiment of the present invention also provides a telecommunication capability opening service system to achieve callback in telecommunication capability opening oriented to free developers so that Web based telecommunication capability oriented to free developers is easily achieved. The telecommunication capability opening service system includes an application transaction platform server configured to provide a client with applications for the client to select and download where the applications include a function of calling a telecommunication capability API and a telecommunication capability opening server configured to receive a telecommunication capability API call request that the client sends when the client runs the applications where the telecommunication capability API call request includes a callback information parameter perform call processing according to the telecommunication capability API call request and generate a callback message according to the callback information parameter and push the callback message to the client.

In embodiments of the present invention a telecommunication capability API call request is received from the client where the telecommunication capability API call request includes a callback information parameter call processing is performed according to the telecommunication capability API call request and a callback message is generated according to the callback information parameter the callback message is pushed to the client. In this way when the client does not have the capability of the Web server callback is achieved by pushing the callback message thereby helping to achieve Web based telecommunication capability oriented to free developers.

In embodiments of the present invention a telecommunication capability API call request is initiated to a telecommunication capability opening server where the telecommunication capability API call request includes a callback information parameter a callback message generated according to the callback information parameter and pushed by the telecommunication capability opening server is received and the callback message is parsed a function that callback processing needs is determined according to the parsing result and the function is called. In this way when the client does not have the capability of the Web server callback is achieved by pushing the callback message thereby helping to achieve Web based telecommunication capability oriented to free developers.

To make the objectives technical solutions and advantages of the embodiments of the present invention clearer the following further describes the embodiments of the present invention in detail with reference to the accompanying drawings. The exemplary embodiments of the present invention and the description thereof are illustrative in nature and shall not be construed as limitations on the present invention.

Callback in current telecommunication capability opening requires a caller of a telecommunication capability API to open Web services so that a telecommunication capability opening server calls the Web services when the callback is needed. In Web based telecommunication capability oriented to free developers the telecommunication capability opening server is directly oriented to a client. Because the client especially a mobile terminal on the mobile Internet cannot process callback in a current standard form in embodiments of the present invention a protocol of the current callback form is considered to be converted into another protocol of an asynchronous callback form after the protocol is converted into another protocol original callback processing processes need to be modified to adapt to the new protocol. For mobile terminals or other clients with higher performance requirements a feasible method is to convert a standard callback protocol into a server push protocol. In this form the telecommunication capability opening server does not call services of the client directly but pushes a callback message to the client after parsing the callback message the client determines which function should be called and completes the call process.

As shown in in an embodiment of the present invention a process of a method for callback processing in telecommunication capability opening may include 

Step Receive a telecommunication capability API call request sent by a client where the telecommunication capability API call request includes a callback information parameter.

In the implementation according to different services provided by callback processing the callback information parameter may include different content. For example for one type of application widget in a mobile phone the callback information parameter may be an address of a callback function in the widget where the address consists of four parts namely mobile phone number widget identifier ID function name and correlator e.g. Tel 13632503792 widgetid 100 function callbackfunction Correlator 110 .

This address indicates an application whose widget ID is equal to 100 in a mobile phone whose callback mobile phone number is 13632503792 where there is a function named callbackfunction. 

Step Perform call processing according to the telecommunication capability API call request and generate a callback message according to the callback information parameter.

The call processing is the same as that in the prior art. For example if the client calls a short messaging API the telecommunication capability opening server completes the short messaging function after parsing the request if the client calls a telephony API the telecommunication capability opening server dials the phone number of a peer party.

Still based on the assumption that the callback information parameter is the address of a callback function in the foregoing widget of the mobile phone after finishing executing the request of the client the telecommunication capability opening server finds and calls through cooperation with the client the function named callbackfunction and marks this call with 110 to differentiate multiple different calls of this function.

In addition when calling the callbackfunction through cooperation with the client the telecommunication capability opening server may transfer some parameters to this function to indicate service execution results. For example in the case that the client calls the short messaging function of the telecommunication capability opening server the telecommunication capability opening server may tell the callbackfunction whether the short message is sent successfully. The function of the callbackfunction may be as follows If the short message is sent successfully on the mobile phone interface the user is prompted that the short message is already sent if the short message fails to be sent the short messaging service of the telecommunication capability opening server is called once again.

As mentioned above the callback message has the following three functions 1. finding a function of a client according to the callback information parameter 2. telling the found function about a service result in the form of a parameter 3. the function of the client executes different operations according to the service result.

According to the process shown in in this embodiment of the present invention a telecommunication capability API call request is received from a client where the telecommunication capability API call request includes a callback information parameter call processing is performed according to the telecommunication capability API call request and a callback message is generated according to the callback information parameter the callback message is pushed to the client. In this way when the client does not have the capability of the Web server callback is achieved by pushing the callback message thereby helping to achieve Web based telecommunication capability oriented to free developers.

The process shown in may be implemented by an apparatus that can implement the function of the process for example the apparatus may be a telecommunication capability opening server. The following embodiments are based on the telecommunication capability opening server.

As shown in an embodiment of the present invention also provides a method for callback processing in telecommunication capability opening. The process may include 

Step Initiate a telecommunication capability API call request to a telecommunication capability opening server where the telecommunication capability API call request includes a callback information parameter.

Step Receive a callback message generated according to the callback information parameter and pushed by the telecommunication capability opening server and parse the callback message.

Step Determine according to a parsing result a function that callback processing needs and call the function.

According to the process shown in in this embodiment of the present invention a telecommunication capability API call request is initiated to a telecommunication capability opening server where the telecommunication capability API call request includes a callback information parameter a callback message generated according to the callback information parameter and pushed by the telecommunication capability opening server is received and the callback message is parsed a function that callback processing needs is determined according to the parsing result and the function is called. In this way when the client does not have the capability of the Web server callback is achieved by pushing the callback message thereby helping to achieve Web based telecommunication capability oriented to free developers.

The process shown in may be implemented by an apparatus that can implement the function of the process for example the apparatus may be a client. The following embodiments are based on the client. The client in embodiments of the present invention may be a mobile phone or other terminals and may also be an SP server.

In the specific implementation the telecommunication capability API provided by a telecommunication capability opening server is universal and is irrelevant to specific services and client forms while different clients such as an SP server a personal computer PC and a mobile phone can accept different callback forms. Therefore the telecommunication capability opening server needs to adapt to different clients. The adaptation process may include the following 

The telecommunication capability opening server provides the client with push modes that is the telecommunication capability opening server may open some optional push modes to the client for calling where the push modes may be Ajax based push long connection based push and streaming pipe based push. When the push mode is used in an SP server whether the SP server opens Web services is not considered and a callback method different from the traditional Web call is provided during the implementation.

The telecommunication capability opening server receives a registration request that the client initiates by selecting a push mode from the provided push modes and registers according to the registration request the push mode selected by the client.

The client may register a push mode acceptable to the client. After receiving the push modes provided by the telecommunication capability opening server the client selects a push mode from these push modes to initiate a registration request to the telecommunication capability opening server. When the telecommunication capability opening server pushes a callback message to the client it may push the callback message to the client according to the push mode registered by the client the client receives the callback message that the telecommunication capability opening server pushes according to the registered push mode.

Specifically pushing the callback message to the client by the telecommunication capability opening server according to the push mode registered by the client may be as follows The telecommunication capability opening server decides according to the push mode registered by the client which push mode is used. In addition in different push modes the telecommunication capability opening server generates different callback messages. The push mode may be applicable to a mobile phone or other terminals and may also be applicable to an SP server when the push mode is used in the SP server whether the SP server opens Web services is not considered and a callback method different from the traditional Web call is provided during the implementation. Certainly during the specific implementation the telecommunication capability opening server may provide the client with optional Web based callback modes in addition to the optional push modes. At this time the push mode may be used in a mobile phone or other terminals only if the client is an SP server the implementation may be based on a Web call mode.

For the callback in the form of server push in embodiments of the present invention server push communication pipes may be created and maintained between the client and the telecommunication capability opening server to push callback messages. When the telecommunication capability opening server pushes a callback message to the client it may select a corresponding communication pipe from the server push communication pipes maintained and managed by the telecommunication capability opening server and pushes the callback message to the client.

The server push communication pipes created and maintained between the client and the telecommunication capability opening server may adopt the form of a long connection because push modes based on the long connection may achieve higher communication performance.

The client generally a browser in traditional Web technologies works based on the pull mode that is when the client clicks the Open or Refresh button the client pulls related information from the server. When the client does not click the Open or Refresh button the server and the client cannot exchange information. Such technologies as Ajax and HTTP long connection facilitate the implementation of server push in embodiments of the present invention. Before the telecommunication capability opening server pushes the callback message for example when the client is started or at any other moment before the telecommunication capability opening server may push the callback message the client may negotiate with the telecommunication capability opening server to set up a long connection for pushing the callback message. Specifically the client may initiate a long connection request to set up a communication connection reserved for a long time between the client and the telecommunication capability opening server. At any time before the long connection expires the telecommunication capability opening server may push the callback message through the long connection.

The long connection may be used as the server push technology and be directly used in the Web based telecommunication capability oriented to free developers in embodiments of the present invention. During the specific implementation the following method may also be used to improve the performance of the long connection to better adapt to the client on the mobile Internet.

If the long connection technology is directly used to implement the server push function each application and even each page in an application need to maintain a long connection with the telecommunication capability opening server. In the current architecture different applications are implemented by different SP providers that is one client application corresponds to one SP server. Therefore different applications need to set up a long connection with respective SP servers. Generally one client runs multiple applications at the same time and one application has multiple pages. Therefore if the long connection technology is directly used the client is likely to maintain multiple long connections with the server. Too many long connections may consume a lot of client resources bringing about a large impact on the client.

Therefore in an embodiment considering that a universal telecommunication capability opening server may be used in embodiments of the present invention to replace each traditional SP server and that all applications can interconnect with a same telecommunication capability opening server through a same client multiple applications may share a long connection. That is long connections are managed by using a centralized mode. The client negotiates through the running environment of applications with the telecommunication capability opening server to set up a long connection where the long connection is used by the telecommunication capability opening server to push callback messages of different applications and or different pages that is the telecommunication capability opening server pushes the callback messages of different applications and different pages to a same client through the long connection. In this way the number of long connections that need to be maintained between the client and the telecommunication capability opening server is greatly reduced thereby effectively saving client resources. After receiving the callback messages pushed by the telecommunication capability opening server the client parses the callback messages according to the protocol determines according to the parsing results which function should be called and completes the call process.

The following describes by using an example a method for callback processing in telecommunication capability opening according to an embodiment of the present invention. As shown in the process may include 

Step A client completes a process of registering a push mode with a telecommunication capability opening server. Specifically the process may include the telecommunication capability opening server provides the client with push modes for selection the client selects a push mode from these push modes to initiate a registration request to the telecommunication capability opening server the telecommunication capability opening server registers according to the registration request the push mode selected by the client.

Step The client initiates a telecommunication capability API call request to the telecommunication capability opening server where the telecommunication capability API call request includes a callback information parameter.

Step After receiving the telecommunication capability API call request the telecommunication capability opening server performs call processing according to the telecommunication capability API call request. Specifically the process may include parsing the telecommunication capability API call request and completing the call service according to the parsing result.

Step The telecommunication capability opening server generates a callback message according to the callback information parameter.

Step The telecommunication capability opening server negotiates with the client to set up a long connection for pushing the callback message. Specifically the long connection may be a long connection for pushing callback messages of different applications and or different pages to the client. This step is executed before step .

Step The telecommunication capability opening server pushes the callback message to the client through the long connection.

Step After receiving the callback message pushed by the telecommunication capability opening server the client parses the callback message.

Step The client determines according to the parsing result a function that callback processing needs and calls the function to complete the callback processing.

Based on the same inventive idea embodiments of the present invention also provide a telecommunication capability opening server and a client as described in the following embodiments. The problem solving principles of the telecommunication capability opening server and the client are similar to the method for callback processing in telecommunication capability opening. Therefore for details about the implementation of the telecommunication capability opening server and the client refer to the implementation of the method which is not further described herein.

As shown in a telecommunication capability opening server provided in an embodiment of the present invention may include a receiving module configured to receive a telecommunication capability API call request sent by a client where the telecommunication capability API call request includes a callback information parameter a calling module configured to perform call processing according to the telecommunication capability API call request a callback message generating module configured to generate a callback message according to the callback information parameter and a callback implementing module configured to push the callback message to the client.

As shown in in an embodiment the telecommunication capability opening server shown in may further include a callback adapting module configured to provide the client with push modes where the receiving module is further configured to receive a registration request that the client initiates by selecting a push mode from the provided push modes the callback adapting module is further configured to register according to the registration request the push mode selected by the client and the callback implementing module is specifically configured to push the callback message to the client according to the registered push mode.

As shown in in an embodiment the telecommunication capability opening server shown in may further include a long connection setup module configured to before the callback implementing module pushes the callback message to the client negotiate with the client to set up a long connection for pushing callback message where the callback implementing module is specifically configured to push the callback message to the client through the long connection.

In an embodiment the long connection setup module may be specifically configured to negotiate with the client to set up a long connection where the long connection is used to push callback messages of different applications and or different pages to the client.

As shown in a client provided in an embodiment of the present invention may include a call requesting module configured to initiate a telecommunication capability API call request to a telecommunication capability opening server where the telecommunication capability API call request includes a callback information parameter a receiving module configured to receive a callback message generated according to the callback information parameter and pushed by the telecommunication capability opening server and a callback processing module configured to parse the callback message determine according to a parsing result a function that callback processing needs and call the function.

In an embodiment the receiving module may be further configured to receive push modes provided by the telecommunication capability opening server.

As shown in the client shown in may further include a registering module configured to select a push mode from the push modes provided by the telecommunication capability opening server to initiate a registration request to the telecommunication capability opening server where the receiving module is specifically configured to receive a callback message that the telecommunication capability opening server pushes according to the registered push mode.

As shown in in an embodiment the client shown in may further include a long connection setup module configured to before the receiving module receives the callback message pushed by the telecommunication capability opening server negotiate with the telecommunication capability opening server to set up a long connection for pushing the callback message where the receiving module is specifically configured to receive a callback message that the telecommunication capability opening server pushes through the long connection.

In an embodiment the long connection setup module may be specifically configured to negotiate with the telecommunication capability opening server to set up a long connection where the long connection is used to receive callback messages of different applications and or different pages pushed by the telecommunication capability opening server.

Based on the same inventive idea an embodiment of the present invention also provides a telecommunication capability opening service system as described in the following embodiment. The problem solving principles of the telecommunication capability opening service system are similar to the method for callback processing in telecommunication capability opening. Therefore for details about the implementation of the telecommunication capability opening service system refer to the implementation of the method which is not further described herein.

As shown in a telecommunication capability opening service system provided in an embodiment of the present invention may include an application transaction platform server configured to provide a client with applications for the client to select and download where the applications include a function of calling a telecommunication capability API and a telecommunication capability opening server configured to receive a telecommunication capability API call request that the client sends when the client runs the applications where the telecommunication capability API call request includes a callback information parameter perform call processing according to the telecommunication capability API call request and generate a callback message according to the callback information parameter and push the callback message to the client.

The telecommunication capability opening server supports applications developed by all free developers and the telecommunication capability API opened by the telecommunication capability opening server has universality. The free developers do not participate in the operation process and do not provide an auxiliary SP server for their developed applications to provide capability of the Web server for callback processing. That is after the client of the user downloads the applications by pushing callback messages by the telecommunication capability opening server the client and the telecommunication capability opening server can directly form a telecommunication operation network to complete the operation of services related to the applications and the client can directly process the callback messages pushed by the telecommunication capability opening server to complete the callback process.

The foregoing telecommunication capability opening service system adopts an architecture where the development and release of telecommunication services are separated from the operation of telecommunication services. In this architecture developing and releasing of applications by the free developers are implemented on the application transaction platform server and the telecommunication capability opening server implements the opening and operation of telecommunication capability oriented to the client. The two servers are used together to complete the lifecycles of telecommunication services on the mobile Internet thereby implementing a telecommunication capability opening service system that can completely cover requirements of the mobile Internet.

In conclusion in embodiments of the present invention a telecommunication capability API call request sent by a client is received where the telecommunication capability API call request includes a callback information parameter call processing is performed according to the telecommunication capability API call request and a callback message is generated according to the callback information parameter the callback message is pushed to the client. In this way when the client does not have the capability of the Web server callback is achieved by pushing the callback message thereby helping to achieve Web based telecommunication capability oriented to free developers.

In embodiments of the present invention a telecommunication capability API call request is initiated to a telecommunication capability opening server where the telecommunication capability API call request includes a callback information parameter a callback message pushed by the telecommunication capability opening server is received and the callback message is parsed a function that callback processing needs is determined according to a parsing result and the function is called. In this way when the client does not have the capability of the Web server callback is achieved by pushing the callback message thereby helping to achieve Web based telecommunication capability oriented to free developers.

An embodiment of the present invention also provides a telecommunication capability opening service system oriented to free developers. The system adopts an architecture where the development and release of telecommunication services are separated from the operation of telecommunication services. In this architecture an application transaction platform server implements development and release of applications and a telecommunication capability opening server implements the operation of telecommunication services. In this way the barrier to telecommunication service development is lowered so that free developers who are unable to participate in the telecommunication operation can also participate in the development of telecommunication services.

It is understandable by persons skilled in the art that embodiments of the present invention may be provided as methods systems or computer programs. Therefore the present invention may adopt forms of complete hardware embodiments complete software embodiments or embodiments combining software and hardware. Furthermore the present invention may adopt forms of computer program products implemented in one or multiple computer available storage media including but not limited to disk memories compact disc read only memories CD ROMs optical memories including computer available program codes.

The present invention is described according to flowcharts and or block diagrams of methods devices e.g. systems and computer program products provided in embodiments of the present invention. It is understandable that computer program instructions may be used to execute each process and or block in the flowcharts and or block diagrams or combinations of processes and or blocks in the flowcharts and or block diagrams. Such computer program instructions may be provided to processors in universal computers dedicated computers embedded processors or other programmable data processing devices to generate a machine so that the instructions executed by the processors in the computers or other programmable data processing devices generate an apparatus configured to implement specified functions in one process or multiple processes in the flowcharts and or one block or multiple blocks in the block diagrams.

Such computer program instructions may also be stored in computer readable memories that can boot the computers or other programmable data processing devices to work in a particular mode so that the instructions stored in the computer readable memories generate manufactured products including an instructing apparatus where the instructing apparatus implements specified functions in one process or multiple processes in the flowcharts and or one block or multiple blocks in the block diagrams.

Such computer program instructions may also be loaded to computers or other programmable data processing devices so that a series of operation steps are executed in the computers or other programmable devices to generate processes implemented by the computers so that instructions executed in the computers or other programmable data processing devices provide steps used to implement specified functions in one or multiple processes in the flowcharts and or one block or multiple blocks in the block diagrams.

The foregoing specific embodiments further describe the objectives technical solutions and benefits of the present invention in detail. It is understandable that the foregoing descriptions are merely specific embodiments of the present invention but are not intended to limit the protection scope of the present invention. Any modification equivalent replacement or improvement made within the principle of the present invention should all fall within the protection scope of the present invention.

