---

title: Enforcing restrictions on third-party accounts
abstract: Disclosed are various embodiments for management of third-party accounts for users in an organization. Network traffic between a client and a third-party network site under management is inspected. The client is associated with a user in an organization. It is determined whether the network traffic corresponds to a managed account with the third-party network site. It is determined whether the network traffic complies with a rule established by the organization. An action is implemented in response to determining that the network traffic does not comply with the rule.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09602540&OS=09602540&RS=09602540
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 09602540
owner_city: Seattle
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130613
---
Enterprise users sometimes need access to third party services in order to perform their jobs. Such services may include for example marketing management services sales management services social networking services file sharing services research services and so on. Users who need access to such services may personally create accounts for work use. A given user may utilize several third party accounts for work use.

The present disclosure relates to unified management of third party accounts for users in an organization. Users in an organization may need access to one or more third party services in order to perform their functions relating to the organization. In some cases the users may manually create accounts with such services. In other cases information technology IT staff for the organization may manually create the accounts for the users or the IT staff may provide users with security credentials for preexisting accounts. Manual management of such accounts quickly becomes cumbersome for large organizations. When a user is no longer associated with the organization it may be difficult for the IT staff to gain access to the account or to deny the departing user access to the account. Moreover it may be a headache for the users to keep up with the various third party accounts that they use during the course of performing their functions.

Various embodiments of the present disclosure facilitate automated management of third party accounts within an organization. Account creation security credential creation and rotation authentication and or other functions may be centrally managed. Additionally account management functions may be linked to organizational changes. For example a new account may automatically be created for a new user and an existing account may be automatically deactivated for a departing user. Such management of the accounts may be transparent with respect to the third party provider of the accounts as such accounts may appear to the third party provider to be ordinary user accounts. In other words various embodiments facilitate federation of organizational credentials without third party sites knowing the organizational credentials or otherwise being specially configured to participate in the federation.

In some embodiments restrictions may be enforced on managed third party accounts through the use of a proxy server. The proxy server may inspect the network traffic pertaining to the third party account to ensure that the usage of the third party account meets organizational guidelines. Remote usage of the third party account e.g. home or mobile use may be routed through the proxy server by a client even when the client is not connected to the internal network of the organization. In one embodiment the inspection functionality of the proxy server may be implemented within the client. In the following discussion a general description of the system and its components is provided followed by a discussion of the operation of the same.

With reference to shown is a networked environment according to various embodiments. The networked environment includes a authentication management computing environment one or more computing environments and one or more clients in data communication via a network . The network includes for example the Internet intranets extranets wide area networks WANs local area networks LANs wired networks wireless networks or other suitable networks etc. or any combination of two or more such networks.

The authentication management computing environment may comprise for example a server computer or any other system providing computing capability. Alternatively the authentication management computing environment may employ a plurality of computing devices that are arranged for example in one or more server banks or computer banks or other arrangements. Such computing devices may be located in a single installation or may be distributed among many different geographical locations. For example the authentication management computing environment may include a plurality of computing devices that together may comprise a cloud computing resource a grid computing resource and or any other distributed computing arrangement. In some cases the authentication management computing environment may correspond to an elastic computing resource where the allotted capacity of processing network storage or other computing related resources may vary over time.

Various applications and or other functionality may be executed in the authentication management computing environment according to various embodiments. Also various data is stored in a data store that is accessible to the authentication management computing environment . The data store may be representative of a plurality of data stores as can be appreciated. The data stored in the data store for example is associated with the operation of the various applications and or functional entities described below.

The components executed on the authentication management computing environment for example may include an authentication management service a proxy server application and other applications services processes systems engines or functionality not discussed in detail herein. The authentication management service is executed to provide unified management of third party network site accounts for users in an organization. To this end the authentication management service may create accounts for users with third party network sites rotate security credentials for such accounts disable and or reassign accounts facilitate authentication of clients with the third party network sites and or perform other functions.

In some embodiments the proxy server application is configured to receive network site resource requests from clients via the network make proxied network site requests on behalf of the clients and then return resulting resources from the network sites to the clients . The proxy server application may be configured to inspect the network traffic between the clients and the third party network sites for compliance with various rules. For example a rule may specify that if an account is designated for personal use work related data is not permitted to be sent to the third party network site. Conversely a rule may specify that if an account is designated for work use personal data is not permitted to be sent to the third party network site. The clients may be configured in some embodiments to enforce usage of the proxy server application in order for the user to gain access to the managed third party account.

The data stored in the data store includes for example organizational user data third party account data third party account rules and potentially other data. The organizational user data includes various data regarding users in an organization. The organization may correspond to an enterprise governmental entity non profit entity cooperative and or any other organization. Such users may be employees contractors members directors owners and or other type of users who have roles within the organization. The organizational user data may include data such as definitions of third party accounts for which a particular user role or a particular user is to be granted access. Such accounts may be free or paid accounts. In this regard the organizational user data may define third party accounts for which the organization is willing to pay for access to particular users. The organizational user data may define a status for each user which may indicate for example that the user is active inactive terminated in good standing not in good standing and or subject to another classification.

The third party account data includes various data regarding third party accounts managed by the authentication management service . For example the third party account data may include usernames security credentials cookies and or other data that may be employed for clients to authenticate with a network site corresponding to the third party account. The security credentials may include passwords numerical codes answers to knowledge based questions encryption keys OAuth tokens and or other data that may be employed for authentication of a third party account. The cookies may be served up by the third party sites for session tracking.

The third party account rules include various rules that configure the operation of the authentication management service with respect to third party accounts. In this regard the third party account rules may configure how the authentication management service interacts with a particular third party network site. Various third party account rules may configure how authentication is performed how accounts are created how accounts are disabled how security credentials are rotated and or generated how usernames are generated and or other configuration parameters. In some embodiments the third party account rules may include rules regarding the types of network traffic that are permissible for the specific third party account and user. Further the third party account rules may configure whether the user is permitted to utilize the third party account when the network traffic between the client of the user and the third party network site is not capable of inspection by the proxy server application .

Each service provider computing environment may comprise for example a server computer or any other system providing computing capability. Alternatively the service provider computing environment may employ a plurality of computing devices that are arranged for example in one or more server banks or computer banks or other arrangements. Such computing devices may be located in a single installation or may be distributed among many different geographical locations. For example the service provider computing environment may include a plurality of computing devices that together may comprise a cloud computing resource a grid computing resource and or any other distributed computing arrangement. In some cases the service provider computing environment may correspond to an elastic computing resource where the allotted capacity of processing network storage or other computing related resources may vary over time.

Various applications and or other functionality may be executed in the service provider computing environment according to various embodiments. Also various data is stored in a data store that is accessible to the service provider computing environment . The data store may be representative of a plurality of data stores as can be appreciated. The data stored in the data store for example is associated with the operation of the various applications and or functional entities described below.

The components executed on the service provider computing environment for example include a network content server an authentication service and other applications services processes systems engines or functionality not discussed in detail herein. The network content server is executed to serve up network content for one or more third party network sites . To this end the network content server may utilize protocols such as hypertext transfer protocol HTTP simple object access protocol SOAP representational state transfer REST and or other protocols. In one embodiment the network content server comprises a commercially available HTTP server such as for example Apache HTTP Server Apache Tomcat Microsoft Internet Information Services IIS and or other servers.

The authentication service may facilitate account creation and or authentication via an account creation endpoint and or an authentication endpoint . The account creation endpoint and or authentication endpoint may utilize an application programming interface API for account creation and or authentication. As a non limiting example the authentication service may include web service APIs to perform such account creation and or authentication.

The data stored in the data store includes for example network content site account data and potentially other data. The network content may include text code templates hypertext markup language HTML extensible markup language XML cascading style sheets CSS images audio video animations and or other data served up via a third party network site . The site account data may include usernames security credentials session identifiers profile data preferences and or other data associated with user accounts configured for the third party network sites .

The client is representative of a plurality of client devices that may be coupled to the network . The client may comprise for example a processor based system such as a computer system. Such a computer system may be embodied in the form of a desktop computer a laptop computer personal digital assistants cellular telephones smartphones set top boxes music players web pads tablet computer systems game consoles electronic book readers or other devices with like capability. The client may include a display . The display may comprise for example one or more devices such as liquid crystal display LCD displays gas plasma based flat panel displays organic light emitting diode OLED displays electrophoretic ink E ink displays LCD projectors or other types of display devices etc.

The client may be configured to execute various applications such as a browser an authentication client and or other applications. The browser may be executed in a client for example to access network content served up by the service provider computing environment and or other servers thereby rendering a user interface on the display . The user interface may correspond to a network page a mobile application screen etc. The authentication client is executed to facilitate authentication and or account creation for third party accounts via the browser . In one embodiment the authentication client corresponds to a plug in for the browser . The user interface may include portions generated by the authentication client . The client may be configured to execute applications beyond the browser and the authentication client such as for example mobile applications email applications social networking applications and or other applications.

Next a general description of the operation of the various components of the networked environment is provided. To begin the authentication client is deployed on the clients belonging to or otherwise used within an organization. Users are created for the organization thereby producing organizational user data . Administrators may configure various third party account rules pertaining to the use of third party accounts by users in the organization. For example the third party account rules may indicate that a certain user or user role should have access to a particular third party network site in order to perform activities related to the organization. The third party account rules may indicate whether the organization is to pay for access to a particular third party network site by a particular user or group of users.

Users at the client authenticate with the authentication management service . To this end a user may supply a username and password for a user identity associated with the organization and defined within the organizational user data . Through this authentication the user may be granted access to various resources within the organization e.g. access to intranet sites file servers email accounts operating system accounts and or other secured resources managed by the organization. In one embodiment the authentication of the user may be performed by way of Kerberos.

After authentication the user may use the browser to access various third party network sites served within the service provider computing environment . The service provider computing environment is operated by a third party who does not correspond to the organization. For example the third party may employ a separate identity system that is different from the identity system of the organization. Some of the third party network sites may include secured resources for which a third party account is used to provide access. Such third party accounts may be pre created by the authentication management service before creation of the user or in response to creation of the user for the organization. Alternatively such third party accounts may be created in response to a user request in response to determining that the organization is willing to pay or is paying for access and or in response to other factors.

The user may be prompted to confirm whether access to the third party network site is for personal use or organization related use. It may be the case that personal use is disallowed. In another case personal use may be allowed with such third party accounts not being managed by the authentication management service . In still another case personal use may be allowed with accounts being managed by the authentication management service .

If an existing account is not available a new third party account may be automatically generated or an existing user managed third party account may be brought into the system for management by the authentication management service . Third party accounts may be created by way of an account creation endpoint or by form filling on a form presented in network content . In creating a new account the authentication management service and or the authentication client may be configured to automatically generate the username and or the security credential . In this regard the security credential may be automatically generated according to a security credential specification for the third party network site to ensure that a security credential meeting length character set and or other requirements are met. As part of such account creation payment instruments of the organization e.g. credit cards lines of credit checking accounts etc. may be automatically configured for use on a third party account that is for organization related purposes.

If an existing user managed account is to become centrally managed the user may be prompted to provide a username a security credential and or other data to facilitate transitioning the account to central management. The authentication client may be employed to render user interfaces to obtain selection of organization related or personal use to obtain information for existing accounts and or other information. Where a user managed account is imported the authentication management service may be configured to rotate the security credentials for the account upon the importing to assert ownership over the account.

After a third party account has been created or imported the client may authenticate with the third party network site for example in response to the user accessing a uniform resource locator URL associated with a secured resource. The authentication client as configured by the third party account rules obtains third party account data from the authentication management service . The authentication client then may facilitate authentication by filling out a log in form or by initiating a request directed to the authentication endpoint .

The authentication client and or the browser may be configured to make the usernames and or the security credentials inaccessible by a user at the client . For example the client may be configured to have no user interface for viewing or retrieving the usernames and or security credentials . In some cases the usernames and or security credentials may be scrambled while stored in client . Where usernames and or security credentials are filled in within a form in the client the authentication client and or the browser may be configured to prevent the user from gaining access to the form or interfering with the form filling process. As a result of the inaccessibility the user may never know the username and or the security credential for a particular third party network site . Because the username and or the security credential are not disclosed to the users the username and or the security credential are protected from usage or theft by former employees.

The authentication management service and or the authentication client may configure the third party network site such that any security credential reset requests are directed to a managed channel of communication and not to a user accessible channel of communication. For example a third party network site may be configured to send password reset emails only to an email account managed by the authentication management service . In this way the user does not have the ability to obtain reset tokens or new passwords from the password reset emails. In addition to emails managed channels of communication may include text messages phone calls and or other channels of communication.

The authentication management service and or the authentication client may be configured to rotate or change the security credentials periodically or in response to the occurrence of some event. As a non limiting example the security credentials may be rotated once a month on a designated day. As another non limiting example the security credentials may be rotated upon being imported into the system. As still another non limiting example the security credentials may be rotated upon departure of the user from the organization and reassignment of the corresponding third party account s to another user.

In some cases a particular third party account may be associated with multiple users. As a non limiting example an account may be created with a file sharing network site and an organization may wish to grant access to the account for two or more users. The users have the same role in the organization and or may collaborate via the use of the same account. In some cases multiple users may be associated with the same third party account to avoid duplication of fees paid to the third party network site . The authentication management service may manage use of the account to avoid or otherwise manage concurrent use.

Authentication management functionality may be located to varying degrees in the authentication management service server side or in the authentication client client side in various embodiments. For example in one embodiment the authentication management service may perform account creation security credential rotation and or other functions. In another embodiment the authentication client may perform the account creation the security credential rotation and or the other functions. Because a user may utilize multiple clients within an organization the third party account data may be maintained in a centralized data store in the authentication management computing environment and then pushed as needed to a client at which the user is logged in. Alternatively the third party account data for a user may remain resident in a client that is associated with the user.

The authentication management service may be configured to push the third party account rules to the authentication client . Alternatively the authentication client may request various third party account rules on an as needed basis e.g. the authentication client may request third party account rules specific to a particular third party network site when the particular third party network site is visited.

In some embodiments a proxy server application may be utilized to perform functions otherwise performed by the authentication client . In such embodiments the client may include a proxy client application or other application in order to maintain state for the proxy server application . For example in embodiments employing a proxy server application when an authenticated user at a client accesses a third party network site via the proxy server application the proxy server application may transparently handle account creation and or authentication functions. In other words when the proxy server application transparently handles these functions the process of account creation and or authentication is handled within the proxy server application on behalf of the client and the account creation and or authentication interfaces of third party network site may be hidden from the client .

In some embodiments the proxy server application and or the authentication management service may perform authentication with the third party network site within the authentication management computing environment on behalf of an authenticated user at a client . In one embodiment this authentication may result in a cookie being set for example to maintain session state for the third party network site . After the cookie is set the authentication management service may be configured to push the cookie to the client . Accordingly the browser may utilize the cookie to communicate with the third party network site in an authenticated state.

The status of any particular user with the organization may change over time resulting in updates to the organizational user data . For example a user may leave the organization or may be transferred to another role in the organization. Over time it may be decided to provide the user access with additional or fewer third party accounts. The authentication management service may be configured to implement such account changes based upon changes to the organizational user data or in response to directives from other systems e.g. human resources systems in the authentication management computing environment .

To illustrate a particular employee in an enterprise may be terminated or may no longer have a business need to access various third party accounts. The employee may currently have access to various third party accounts. In response to the event the authentication management service may disable access by the employee to the various third party accounts. In doing so the authentication management service may communicate with the third party network sites and or authentication services associated with the third party network sites to rotate the security credentials for the third party accounts to revoke the security credentials for the third party accounts and or to close the third party accounts. The authentication management service may internally reassign one or more of the third party accounts to one or more other users in the organization. It is noted that security of the third party account may be maintained because the third party account is managed by the authentication management service . The end user may not even know the security credentials for the third party account.

Further control for resetting and or rotating the security credentials is vested with the authentication management service and or the authentication client rather than the end user. To this end the authentication management service and or the authentication client may ensure that the user at the client does not have access to security credential change or reset functions through the third party network site . For example the authentication client may be configured via the corresponding third party account rules to block a network page or function of a third party network site that enables password changes or resets. In some cases the authentication management service and or the authentication client may configure a channel of communication with the third party network site for credential resets where the end user does not have access to the channel of communication.

Where security credentials are exposed to the user the authentication management service may be configured to periodically monitor with the third party network site to verify that the stored security credentials are still valid and have not been changed by the user. If the authentication management service detects that the security credentials have been changed with the third party network site the authentication management service may raise an alarm with an administrator disable access by the user to organizational resources or take another action.

In some embodiments the authentication management service may obtain location data or other auditing data from the third party network site indicating for example where the client was located when a logon occurred. The authentication management service may compare this auditing data with rules for acceptable use e.g. to ensure that if a security credential were checked out that it was used only in an acceptable location. Upon any discrepancies the authentication management service may raise an alarm with an administrator disable access by the user to organizational resources or take another action.

In certain circumstances a user may desire access to a managed third party account via a client that is not managed by the organization. For example the user may wish to access a managed third party account via a mobile device or from a personal laptop. For such situations the authentication management service may facilitate checkout of security credentials . Temporary security credentials may be issued for the user and such credentials may have a specific lifetime after which they are deactivated. Such deactivation may correspond to a rotation of the security credentials as performed by the authentication management service .

Various techniques relating to authentication management are described by U.S. Patent Application entitled AUTHENTICATION MANAGER filed on Aug. 12 2009 having application Ser. No. 12 539 886 U.S. Patent Application entitled MANAGING SECURITY CREDENTIALS filed on Jul. 29 2011 having application Ser. No. 13 194 287 U.S. Patent Application entitled ACCOUNT MANAGEMENT FOR MULTIPLE NETWORK SITES filed on Feb. 1 2012 having application Ser. No. 13 363 654 U.S. Patent Application entitled AUTHENTICATION MANAGEMENT SERVICES filed on Feb. 1 2012 having application Ser. No. 13 363 664 U.S. Patent Application entitled PRESENTING MANAGED SECURITY CREDENTIALS TO NETWORK SITES filed on Feb. 1 2012 having application Ser. No. 13 363 675 U.S. Patent Application entitled RECOVERY OF MANAGED SECURITY CREDENTIALS filed on Feb. 1 2012 having application Ser. No. 13 363 681 U.S. Patent Application entitled LOGOUT FROM MULTIPLE NETWORK SITES filed on Feb. 1 2012 having application Ser. No. 13 363 685 U.S. Patent Application entitled MAPPING STORED CLIENT DATA TO REQUESTED DATA USING METADATA filed on Nov. 16 2012 having application Ser. No. 13 679 254 U.S. Patent Application entitled PROXY SERVER BASED NETWORK SITE ACCOUNT MANAGEMENT filed on Mar. 11 2013 having application Ser. No. 13 792 678 all of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

Turning now to shown is another example of a networked environment according to various embodiments. In comparison to the networked environment the networked environment clearly shows that the network traffic between the clients and the service provider computing environment is routed through the proxy server application . The networks and may correspond to the same network or different networks . In one embodiment the network corresponds to a network that is external to the organization while the network corresponds to a network that is internal to the organization.

Because the network traffic between the client and the service provider computing environment is routed by way of the proxy server application the organization is capable of inspecting the network traffic. Accordingly the organization is capable of enforcing various rules and or restrictions on the use of particular third party accounts. In some cases the network traffic may be inspected by network equipment capable of reconstructing application layer data not involving a proxy server application . The rules that are applied may be uniform across the organization or may be specific to particular users and or third party network sites .

The rules for permissible use of a third party account may depend on whether the account is classified as for personal use or organizational use. Such a classification may be user provided for example during an account creation or registration workflow. When a third party account is classified as personal use the organization may wish to enforce rules that organization related data is not to be exchanged between the client and the service provider computing environment . As non limiting examples the proxy server application may inspect the network traffic for keywords e.g. company confidential or certain types of documents e.g. computer assisted drafting CAD drawings may be prohibited from being transferred to personal file sharing accounts . As another non limiting example the proxy server application may inspect the network traffic for geotags that correspond to geographical locations within a workplace. In this regard a picture taken within a company workplace may be geotagged with the workplace location and a rule may indicate that such a picture may not be shared via a third party social networking account. In some scenarios a rule may configure the proxy server application to seek predefined canary data in the network traffic where the presence of the canary data indicates improper usage of the third party account. The canary data may correspond to data that would not otherwise be transferred provided or accessed under acceptable use and that is made available for tracing purposes.

Conversely when an account is classified as for organization purposes the network traffic may be inspected to ensure that personal related data is not exchanged. As a non limiting example a rule may specify that purchases in certain predefined item categories are personal use. As another non limiting example a rule may specify that a residence address of the user appearing in the network traffic may correspond to prohibited personal use.

The proxy server application may be configured to take various actions in response to determining that rules have not been complied with. For example the specific third party account may be disabled transferred to another user flagged for manual review and so on. Alternatively the organizational account of the user within the systems of the organization may be disabled transferred to another user flagged for manual review and so on. The actions that are performed may depend on the specific rules users and or third party accounts.

In one embodiment the rule may pertain to behavior based identity verification of the user. For example the rule s may indicate that certain behavior is inconsistent with the behavior expected of the user. Behavior expected of the user may be predefined or may be dynamically determined from past behavior of the authenticated user with respect to the specific third party account or other usage monitored by the organization. Various techniques relating to behavior based identity verification are described in U.S. Patent Application entitled BEHAVIOR BASED IDENTITY SYSTEM filed on Jul. 23 2012 having application Ser. No. 13 555 724 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

It is noted that the enforcement of the various rules by way of network traffic inspection depends on the availability of the network traffic for inspection. In networks under control of the organization this may not be a problem. However if clients are deployed for home use or mobile use the users may choose to log in to third party accounts without having the network traffic routed through the proxy server application .

In such an embodiment the authentication client may be configured to restrict access to one or more third party accounts if the proxy server application is not used. To this end the authentication client may examine browser settings perform a network probe or otherwise ascertain whether the proxy server application is being used or is being bypassed. Where the proxy server application is being bypassed the authentication client may deny access to one or more third party managed accounts. The authentication client may receive directives from the proxy server application indicating whether the network traffic is being inspected. The authentication client may then implement an action in response to the directive e.g. deny or restrict access. In some cases the authentication client itself may function as a proxy and perform at least some of the functions of the proxy server application .

Referring next to shown is one example of a user interface rendered by a client in the networked environment according to various embodiments. The user interface is rendered by a browser and an authentication client executed in the client . The user interface presents a network page for a third party network site which in this non limiting example is www.storageshare.site. The network page includes functionality to log in with an existing account with the third party network site and functionality to create a new account with the third party network site .

In this example a username field and a password field have been pre populated for the user to log in to the third party network site with an existing account managed by the authentication management service . Further a region is rendered by the authentication client which indicates that the user is already logged in with the authentication management service as SMITH JOHN and that the username field and the password field have been pre populated based upon a managed username and a managed security credential . In various embodiments the region may correspond to an iframe a pop up window a pop over window or other native user interface components in the network page . In some embodiments the region may be generated and included within the network page by the proxy server application . In some cases the proxy server application and or the authentication client may be configured to modify the network page for example by removing inappropriate content removing content relating to payment instruments or account management creation or performing another modification.

In another example the user may be associated with multiple existing accounts with the third party network site and the user interface may include components that facilitate a selection from among the multiple existing accounts. In another example the authentication may be performed behind the scenes by the authentication management service and or the authentication client . Such an authentication may be performed using an authentication endpoint associated with the third party network site or by filling a form that is not rendered upon the display .

Turning now to shown is another example of a user interface rendered by a client in the networked environment according to various embodiments. The user interface is rendered by a browser and an authentication client executed in the client . The user interface presents a network page for a third party network site which in this non limiting example is www.storageshare.site. In contrast to the user interface the user interface reflects a situation where no existing account for the third party network site is managed by the authentication management service on behalf of the authenticated user.

A region is rendered by the authentication client which indicates that no existing account is located for the particular third party network site . In various embodiments the region may correspond to an iframe a pop up window a pop over window or other native user interface components in the network page . In some embodiments the region may be generated and included within the network page by the proxy server application .

The region may include a selection component that facilitates selection between personal use or organization related use for the third party network site . Organizations may have varying policies on personal use as compared to organization related use. For example in one organization an account for personal use may be disallowed. In another organization an account for personal use may be unmanaged by the authentication management service . In still another organization an account for personal use may be managed by the authentication management service but with the security credentials being released to the user so that the user can still access the account after leaving the organization.

A component may be provided for adding account information for an existing account with the third party network site . For example the user may already have an account with the third party network site but the account is not managed by the authentication management service . An interface may be rendered for the user to specify a username password and or other information for the existing account. Upon submission the account information may be stored in the third party account data for management by the authentication management service . Subsequently the authentication management service may perform credential rotation automated authentication and or other management functions.

A component may be provided for initiating creation of a new account with the third party network site . The user may be prompted to enter various information. Some or all of the account creation process may be automated by the authentication management service and or the authentication client using account creation rules from the third party account rules . The account may be created by way of form filling or through an account creation endpoint . Usernames security credentials and or other account information may be generated automatically by the authentication management service and or the authentication client . In one embodiment a username may be generated automatically based at least in part on information associated with the user in the organizational user data . For example a username of the user with the organization may be employed for generating the username for the third party network site .

Referring next to shown is a flowchart that provides one example of the operation of a portion of the authentication client according to various embodiments. It is understood that the flowchart of provides merely an example of the many different types of functional arrangements that may be employed to implement the operation of the portion of the authentication client as described herein. As an alternative the flowchart of may be viewed as depicting an example of steps of a method implemented in the client according to one or more embodiments.

Beginning with box the authentication client authenticates a user with identity systems of the organization. For example the user may enter a username and password or be identified through a biometric approach. As a result the client is determined to be authorized to access third party accounts associated with the account of the user in the organization. In one embodiment the authentication may employ Kerberos with a Kerberos ticket being made available to the authentication client to enable authenticated communication with the authentication management service .

In box the authentication client determines that a user is accessing a third party network site having managed authentication. For example the third party network site may have a domain name that matches a domain name specified for managed authentication in the third party account rules . In box the authentication client determines whether the user has an existing managed account for the third party network site . For example the authentication client may query the authentication management service . If the user does have an existing managed account the authentication client obtains the account information e.g. username security credentials etc. from the authentication management service in box . In box the authentication client authenticates with the third party network site using the obtained account information. Thereafter the portion of the authentication client ends.

If instead the user does not have an existing managed account the authentication client proceeds from box to box . In box the authentication client determines whether the use of the third party network site is organization related. For example the user may be prompted to indicate whether the use is personal or work related. If the use is not organization related the authentication client moves to box and implements an action responsive to personal use. For example the authentication client may allow the user to manually enter a username and password to authenticate with the third party network site . Alternatively the authentication client may block access to the third party network site . Thereafter the portion of the authentication client ends.

If the authentication client instead determines in box that the use is organization related the authentication client continues to box . In box the authentication client determines whether the user has an existing user managed account. If the user has an existing user managed account the authentication client transitions to box and obtains the existing account information from the user. In box the authentication client sends the existing account information to the authentication management service . The existing account is subsequently managed by the authentication management service . In box the authentication client authenticates with the third party network site using the account information. Thereafter the portion of the authentication client ends.

If the authentication client instead determines in box that there is no existing user managed account the authentication client continues to box . In box the authentication client creates a managed account for the user with the third party network site . Alternatively the authentication client may request that the authentication management service perform the account creation. In box the authentication client authenticates with the third party network site using the managed account. Thereafter the portion of the authentication client ends.

Continuing to shown is a flowchart that provides one example of the operation of a portion of the authentication management service according to various embodiments. It is understood that the flowchart of provides merely an example of the many different types of functional arrangements that may be employed to implement the operation of the portion of the authentication management service as described herein. As an alternative the flowchart of may be viewed as depicting an example of steps of a method implemented in the authentication management computing environment according to one or more embodiments.

Beginning with box the authentication management service authenticates a user in an organization at a client . In one example the user may be a new user who has recently become associated with the organization. In box the authentication management service determines whether a user is to be provided with managed access to a third party network site . For example such a determination may be based upon the role of the user in the organization and or other data in the organizational user data . In box the authentication management service determines whether an account is to be created for the user. In one example the account may be created if the organization is willing to pay the third party network site for access by the user. If an account is to be created the authentication management service initiates account creation with the third party network site in box . The authentication management service then continues to box .

If the authentication management service instead determines that an account is not to be created the authentication management service continues from box to box . In box the authentication management service determines whether an existing account is to be managed. If an existing account is not to be managed the authentication management service moves to box and allows the user to access the third party network site in an unmanaged manner or denies the user access to the third party network site . Thereafter the portion of the authentication management service ends. If an existing account is to be managed the authentication management service moves from box to box and obtains existing account information from the user.

In box the authentication management service stores the account information e.g. username security credentials etc. for the managed account which has either been obtained by the user or generated automatically during account creation. In box the authentication management service obtains a request from the authenticated user to access the managed account for the third party network site . In box the authentication management service configures the client associated with the user to authenticate with the third party network site using the stored account information. In various embodiments the security credentials may be made inaccessible to the user via the client . In other embodiments the user may be able to check out the security credentials or temporary security credentials e.g. for manual use with a different client during a specific time period. In either case access by the user to the security credentials may be restricted. In one embodiment the security credential may correspond to a cookie and the client may be configured to present the cookie to the third party network site .

In box the authentication management service determines whether data associated with the user in the organizational user data has been updated. For example the user may be moved to a different role given authorization to have an additional third party account withdrawn authorization to have an existing third party account the user may have left the organization and so on. If the data has been updated the authentication management service moves to box and implements an action responsive to the user update. For example an account may be disabled transferred to another user and so on. The authentication management service continues to box .

If the data associated with the user has not been updated the authentication management service transitions from box to box . In box the authentication management service determines whether the security credentials for the managed account are to be rotated. If so the authentication management service implements a credential rotation in box . In so doing the authentication management service may generate a replacement security credential for the managed account establish the replacement security credential with the third party network site and then update the stored security credential in the data store with the replacement security credential . Thereafter the portion of the authentication management service ends.

Turning to shown is a flowchart that provides one example of the operation of a portion of the proxy server application according to various embodiments. It is understood that the flowchart of provides merely an example of the many different types of functional arrangements that may be employed to implement the operation of the portion of the proxy server application as described herein. As an alternative the flowchart of may be viewed as depicting an example of steps of a method implemented in the authentication management computing environment according to one or more embodiments. It is noted that in some embodiments some or all of the network traffic inspection functionality of the proxy server application as described below may be implemented in the client . In one embodiment the client may be configured to cache network traffic inspection information and then later verify compliance with traffic inspection rules via communication with a service in the authentication management computing environment .

Beginning with box the proxy server application obtains network traffic between the client and the service provider computing environment for inspection. In box the proxy server application determines whether the network traffic corresponds to traffic between the client and a third party network site under management. For example the network traffic may represent traffic related to a third party account managed by the authentication management service . Alternatively the network traffic may represent traffic not related to a third party account or related to a third party account that is not currently managed but is required by the organization to be managed. In box the proxy server application obtains traffic inspection rules associated with the third party network site under management the third party account and or a corresponding user from the third party account rules .

In box the proxy server application determines whether the usage represented in network traffic complies with the rules. If the usage does not comply with the rules the proxy server application moves to box and implements an action e.g. disabling the third party account disabling the organizational account of the user logging content of the network traffic for further review terminating employment of the user etc. . Thereafter the portion of the proxy server application ends. Otherwise if the usage does comply in box the proxy server application may optionally implement an action when the network traffic does comply with the rules. Such an action may involve modifying the content of the network traffic inserting certain data values within the content and so on. Thereafter the portion of the proxy server application ends.

Moving next to shown is a flowchart that provides one example of the operation of a portion of the authentication client according to various embodiments. It is understood that the flowchart of provides merely an example of the many different types of functional arrangements that may be employed to implement the operation of the portion of the authentication client as described herein. As an alternative the flowchart of may be viewed as depicting an example of steps of a method implemented in the client according to one or more embodiments. In the scenario of the security credentials may be exposed to the client and the authentication client may determine whether to allow access to the third party account using the exposed security credentials . In other scenarios the security credentials may be shielded from the client and authentication may be handled by the proxy server application .

Beginning with box the authentication client receives a request to access a network resource e.g. a network page or other file under management by the organization e.g. where use of a managed account is enforced . In box the authentication client determines whether the resulting network traffic would be or is routed by the proxy server application when the client is coupled to an external network . In some cases the authentication client may receive a directive from the authentication management computing environment indicating whether the network traffic is capable of being inspected and this may substitute for a determination of whether a proxy server application is being employed.

If the traffic is routed by the proxy server application the authentication client moves to box and permits access to the managed account for the third party network site . Thereafter the portion of the authentication client ends. Otherwise if the traffic is not routed via the proxy server application the authentication client moves to box and denies access by the client to the managed account. Thereafter the portion of the authentication client ends.

With reference to shown is a schematic block diagram of the authentication management computing environment according to an embodiment of the present disclosure. The authentication management computing environment includes one or more computing devices . Each computing device includes at least one processor circuit for example having a processor and a memory both of which are coupled to a local interface . To this end each computing device may comprise for example at least one server computer or like device. The local interface may comprise for example a data bus with an accompanying address control bus or other bus structure as can be appreciated.

Stored in the memory are both data and several components that are executable by the processor . In particular stored in the memory and executable by the processor may be the authentication management service the proxy server application and potentially other applications. Also stored in the memory may be a data store and other data. In addition an operating system may be stored in the memory and executable by the processor .

It is understood that there may be other applications that are stored in the memory and are executable by the processor as can be appreciated. Where any component discussed herein is implemented in the form of software any one of a number of programming languages may be employed such as for example C C C Objective C Java JavaScript Perl PHP Visual Basic Python Ruby Flash or other programming languages.

A number of software components are stored in the memory and are executable by the processor . In this respect the term executable means a program file that is in a form that can ultimately be run by the processor . Examples of executable programs may be for example a compiled program that can be translated into machine code in a format that can be loaded into a random access portion of the memory and run by the processor source code that may be expressed in proper format such as object code that is capable of being loaded into a random access portion of the memory and executed by the processor or source code that may be interpreted by another executable program to generate instructions in a random access portion of the memory to be executed by the processor etc. An executable program may be stored in any portion or component of the memory including for example random access memory RAM read only memory ROM hard drive solid state drive USB flash drive memory card optical disc such as compact disc CD or digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk magnetic tape or other memory components.

The memory is defined herein as including both volatile and nonvolatile memory and data storage components. Volatile components are those that do not retain data values upon loss of power. Nonvolatile components are those that retain data upon a loss of power. Thus the memory may comprise for example random access memory RAM read only memory ROM hard disk drives solid state drives USB flash drives memory cards accessed via a memory card reader floppy disks accessed via an associated floppy disk drive optical discs accessed via an optical disc drive magnetic tapes accessed via an appropriate tape drive and or other memory components or a combination of any two or more of these memory components. In addition the RAM may comprise for example static random access memory SRAM dynamic random access memory DRAM or magnetic random access memory MRAM and other such devices. The ROM may comprise for example a programmable read only memory PROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM an electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM or other like memory device.

Also the processor may represent multiple processors and or multiple processor cores and the memory may represent multiple memories that operate in parallel processing circuits respectively. In such a case the local interface may be an appropriate network that facilitates communication between any two of the multiple processors between any processor and any of the memories or between any two of the memories etc. The local interface may comprise additional systems designed to coordinate this communication including for example performing load balancing. The processor may be of electrical or of some other available construction.

Although the authentication management service the proxy server application the authentication client and other various systems described herein may be embodied in software or code executed by general purpose hardware as discussed above as an alternative the same may also be embodied in dedicated hardware or a combination of software general purpose hardware and dedicated hardware. If embodied in dedicated hardware each can be implemented as a circuit or state machine that employs any one of or a combination of a number of technologies. These technologies may include but are not limited to discrete logic circuits having logic gates for implementing various logic functions upon an application of one or more data signals application specific integrated circuits ASICs having appropriate logic gates field programmable gate arrays FPGAs or other components etc. Such technologies are generally well known by those skilled in the art and consequently are not described in detail herein.

The flowcharts of show the functionality and operation of an implementation of portions of the authentication client the proxy server application and the authentication management service . If embodied in software each block may represent a module segment or portion of code that comprises program instructions to implement the specified logical function s . The program instructions may be embodied in the form of source code that comprises human readable statements written in a programming language or machine code that comprises numerical instructions recognizable by a suitable execution system such as a processor in a computer system or other system. The machine code may be converted from the source code etc. If embodied in hardware each block may represent a circuit or a number of interconnected circuits to implement the specified logical function s .

Although the flowcharts of show a specific order of execution it is understood that the order of execution may differ from that which is depicted. For example the order of execution of two or more blocks may be scrambled relative to the order shown. Also two or more blocks shown in succession in may be executed concurrently or with partial concurrence. Further in some embodiments one or more of the blocks shown in may be skipped or omitted. In addition any number of counters state variables warning semaphores or messages might be added to the logical flow described herein for purposes of enhanced utility accounting performance measurement or providing troubleshooting aids etc. It is understood that all such variations are within the scope of the present disclosure.

Also any logic or application described herein including the authentication management service the proxy server application and the authentication client that comprises software or code can be embodied in any non transitory computer readable medium for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system such as for example a processor in a computer system or other system. In this sense the logic may comprise for example statements including instructions and declarations that can be fetched from the computer readable medium and executed by the instruction execution system. In the context of the present disclosure a computer readable medium can be any medium that can contain store or maintain the logic or application described herein for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system.

The computer readable medium can comprise any one of many physical media such as for example magnetic optical or semiconductor media. More specific examples of a suitable computer readable medium would include but are not limited to magnetic tapes magnetic floppy diskettes magnetic hard drives memory cards solid state drives USB flash drives or optical discs. Also the computer readable medium may be a random access memory RAM including for example static random access memory SRAM and dynamic random access memory DRAM or magnetic random access memory MRAM . In addition the computer readable medium may be a read only memory ROM a programmable read only memory PROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM an electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM or other type of memory device.

It should be emphasized that the above described embodiments of the present disclosure are merely possible examples of implementations set forth for a clear understanding of the principles of the disclosure. Many variations and modifications may be made to the above described embodiment s without departing substantially from the spirit and principles of the disclosure. All such modifications and variations are intended to be included herein within the scope of this disclosure and protected by the following claims.

