---

title: Method and system for providing real-time end-user WiFi quality data
abstract: A system and method for providing WiFi operators real-time end-user WiFi quality information is disclosed herein. An application server injects a scriptlet into a content transferred to a web browser of a mobile device during a browsing activity. The scriptlet is configured to run in the background of the browsing activity and configured to periodically test a latency of HTTP requests from the mobile device to the application server to determine a quality of the WIFI network.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09306829&OS=09306829&RS=09306829
owner: Joingo, LLC
number: 09306829
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131111
---
The Present application is a continuation application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 965 596 filed on Aug. 13 2013 and claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 863 892 filed on Aug. 8 2013 both of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties.

The present invention generally relates to wireless communications. More specifically the present invention relates to a method and system for providing WiFi operators real time end user WiFi quality information.

The prior art discusses various systems and methods for providing monitoring parameters for a wireless local area network.

Hendrickson et al. U.S. Patent Publication Number 20020069037 for a System And Method For Measuring Wireless Device And Network Usage And Performance Metrics discloses a system that uses specific system wireless devices with an installed data gathering software that transmits data to a control center using a wireless link in order to measure the usage and performance of a wireless network.

Euler et al. U.S. Pat. No. 7 967 212 for Web Content Power Consumption Notification For Wireless Devices discloses means for determining if a content download will drain a battery level of a mobile device based on a current power level of a mobile device the size of the content and the type of device.

Huang et al. U.S. Patent Publication Number 20110119370 for Measuring Network Performance For Cloud Services discloses a method for a round trip time latency from a central controller to a cloud service.

Application Programming Interface API is a collection of computer software code usually a set of class definitions that can perform a set of related complex tasks but has a limited set of controls that may be manipulated by other software code entities. The set of controls is deliberately limited for the sake of clarity and ease of use so that programmers do not have to work with the detail contained within the given API itself.

BLUETOOTH technology is a standard short range radio link that operates in the unlicensed 2.4 gigaHertz band.

Code Division Multiple Access CDMA is a spread spectrum communication system used in second generation and third generation cellular networks and is described in U.S. Pat. No. 4 901 307.

CRM Customer Relationship Management is a widely implemented strategy for managing a company s interactions with customers clients and sales prospects. CRM involves using technology to organize automate and synchronize business processes and the like principally sales activities but also business processes and the like for marketing customer service and technical support.

Direct Inward Dialing DID involves a carrier providing one or more trunk lines to a customer for connection to the customer s private branch exchange PBX and a range of telephone lines are allocated to this line.

FTP or File Transfer Protocol is a protocol for moving files over the Internet from one computer to another.

Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP is a set of conventions for controlling the transfer of information via the Internet from a web server computer to a client computer and also from a client computer to a web server and Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure HTTPS is a communications protocol for secure communication via a network from a web server computer to a client computer and also from a client computer to a web server by at a minimum verifying the authenticity of a web site.

Internet is the worldwide decentralized totality of server computers and data transmission paths which can supply information to a connected and browser equipped client computer and can receive and forward information entered from the client computer.

Internet Protocol Address IP address is a unique identifier using IPv4 or IPv6 for a machine computer on the Internet.

Interactive voice response IVR is a telephone technology in which a user uses a phone to interact with a database to acquire information.

Java Server Pages JSP is a code embedded directly in a web page and provides a means for accessing the functionality of complex servlets running on a web server.

JavaScript is an object based programming language. JavaScript is an interpreted language not a compiled language. JavaScript is generally designed for writing software routines that operate within a client computer on the Internet. Generally the software routines are downloaded to the client computer at the beginning of the interactive session if they are not already cached on the client computer.

Mobile Browser is a web browser designed for use on a mobile communication device such as a mobile phone is preferably designed to display content a small screen of a mobile phone and connects to the Internet over a cellular network or a wireless LAN using HTTP over TCP IP.

Multimedia messaging service MMS communication is a communication transmitted to and from a mobile phone that includes a multimedia content such as a digital photograph JPEG videos and the like.

Public Switch Telephone Network PSTN is a telecommunication system in which networks are inter connected to allow telephones to communicate with each other throughout the world.

Scriptlet is JAVA code embedded between in JavaServer Pages which contains JAVA code that is executed every time the JavaServer Page is invoked.

Short Message Service SMS is text messaging communication using a mobile phone or other device to send messages up to 160 characters in length.

Short message peer to peer SMPP is a telecommunications protocol for exchanging SMS messages between SMS peer entities.

A SMS aggregator is an entity that provides connectivity with a mobile phone carrier by offering a SMS gateway to send and receive messages and other digital content.

A SMS Gateway is used to send text messages with or without a mobile phone and is used by aggregators to forward text messages to mobile phones.

Telephone Consumer Protection Act TCPA of 1991 restricts the use of SMS text messages received by mobile phones and SMS messages sent without a consumer s consent can violate the TCPA.

Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP relates to communications transmitted over the Internet such as SKYPE.

User Interface or UI is the junction between a user and a computer program. An interface is a set of commands or menus through which a user communicates with a program. A command driven interface is one in which the user enter commands. A menu driven interface is one in which the user selects command choices from various menus displayed on the screen.

Web Browser is a complex software program resident in a client computer that is capable of loading and displaying text and images and exhibiting behaviors as encoded in HTML HyperText Markup Language from the Internet and also from the client computer s memory. Major browsers include MICROSOFT INTERNET EXPLORER NETSCAPE APPLE SAFARI MOZILLA FIREFOX and OPERA.

Web Server is a computer able to simultaneously manage many Internet information exchange processes at the same time. Normally server computers are more powerful than client computers and are administratively and or geographically centralized. An interactive form information collection process generally is controlled from a server computer to which the sponsor of the process has access.

Wireless Application Protocol WAP is an open global specification that empowers users with mobile wireless communication devices such as mobile phones to easily access data and to interact with Websites over the Internet through such mobile wireless communication device. WAP works with most wireless communication networks such as CDPD CDMA GSM PDC PHS TDMA FLEX reflex iDEN TETRA DECT DataTAC Mobitex and GRPS. WAP can be built on most operating systems including PalmOS WINDOWS CE FLEXOS OS 9 JavaOS and others.

WAP Push is defined as an encoded WAP content message delivered pushed to a mobile communication device which includes a link to a WAP address.

WiFi is wireless networking using the 802.11 communication standard from the IEEE 802.11 ac is the latest version and transmitting at 2.4 GHz or 5 GHz.

There is a need for a system that provides an operator real time quality information for a WiFi network.

One aspect of the present invention is a system for providing WIFI operators real time end user WIFI quality information. The system comprises a mobile device comprising a mobile web browser a WIFI network an HTTP proxy engine an application server comprising a scriptlet and a management console. The WIFI network is configured to include the HTTP proxy engine in the transmission of a browsing activity of the mobile device. The application server injects the scriptlet into a content transferred to the web browser of the mobile device during the browsing activity. The scriptlet is configured to run in the background of the browsing activity and configured to periodically test a latency of HTTP requests from the mobile device to the application server to determine a quality of the WIFI network.

Another aspect of the present invention is a method for providing WIFI operators real time end user WIFI quality information. The method includes receiving at an application server on a WIFI network an HTTP request for content from a mobile communication device of an end user. The method also includes receiving the resulting content at the application server. The method also includes injecting a scriptlet into the content transferred to a mobile web browser of the mobile communication device during a browsing activity. The method also includes monitoring a latency of HTTP requests from the mobile communication device into the application server to determine a quality of the WIFI network.

Having briefly described the present invention the above and further objects features and advantages thereof will be recognized by those skilled in the pertinent art from the following detailed description of the invention when taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

The present invention is a system for providing WiFi operators real time end user WiFi quality information. The quality information preferably comprises throughput measured in Megabytes per second Mbps of content delivery to a mobile web browser of a mobile communication device. The system provides real time WiFi parameters at specific locations in a WLAN. The real time quality of the WLAN as experienced by an end user of a mobile communication device is provided to an operator via the web browser of the mobile communication device of the end user which is utilized as a monitoring device for monitoring the quality of the WLAN. When the mobile communication device connects to the WiFi network and makes requests the requests are routed through an HTTP Proxy. Each time the end user of the mobile communication device requests resources from Internet from the mobile web browser the data is forwarded and passed back through the HTTP proxy to an application server which injects a scriptlet into the content returned to the mobile communication device from the Internet. The scriptlet is configured to run in the background and periodically test the latency of HTTP requests from the mobile communication device to the application server thus determining the WiFi quality. The periodic latency tests preferably also inform the application server of the preceding test result as the scriptlet is performing the current test. The results are then displayed over time and geography on a management console and or used to alert IT staff when quality levels deteriorate to a predetermined threshold value.

In one example an end user opens a mobile web browser on a mobile communication device. The mobile communication device establishes a connection with the WLAN of a venue preferably through a wireless access point wireless AP . The end user then enters a URL to request content from a website over the Internet. The content is preferably a webpage of a website. An HTTP request is sent from the mobile web browser via the WLAN. The HTTP request preferably comprises an IP address of the mobile communication device the content requested URL the browser and version used by the mobile communication device the user agent profile of the mobile communication device and cookies present. An HTTP Proxy engine on an application server forwards the request to the web address requested by the mobile device. The HTTP proxy retrieves the content from the targeted web address and a scriptlet is injected into the content by the application server. The modified content is then returned to the mobile communication device. The scriptlet tests the latency of HTTP requests from the mobile communication device to the application server to analyze and report real time WiFi quality of the WiFi network at the geographic location of the mobile communication device. The location is serviced by a wireless AP which may or may not be over utilized by other mobile devices or too distant from the location of the mobile communication device. The location of the mobile communication device may be determined using triangulation of signals received at various wireless APs within the venue.

As shown in a mobile web browser of a mobile communication device is illustrated on a display screen of the mobile communication device . A venue dashbar tab is displayed on the page of the browser with a login button special offers buttons a maps button and a get app button . As shown in the venue dashbar tab can be toggled open or closed. The venue dashbar is embedded into the mobile web browser. As shown in the UXD user experience design is unified across WiFi mobile web and native channels for content and offers regardless of the platform. shows a WiFi application on the display screen of a mobile communication device . shows a web based application on the display screen of a mobile communication device . shows a native application on the display screen of a mobile communication device .

A mobile communication device is capable of connecting to a local area network LAN through a wireless AP of a facility through an Ethernet of the facility and through a firewall of the facility. The facility has a server that connects to the Internet. An authentication service is configured to request patron input to associate the signature of the device with the identity of the patron and a marketing content service is configured to translate the signature into a patron identity PID . A third party server is accessible over the Internet. A wireless AP connects the WiFi server to the WiFi system. The server preferably communicates with the other services such as Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol DHCP Remote Authentication Dial In User Service RADIUS authentication service and marketing content service and with the patron server through the WLAN. Communication with the remote server and the content server is through the Internet through the firewall. The mobile communication device receives a signal from the wireless AP. The mobile communication device s Media Access Control MAC address is transmitted to the wireless AP and relayed to the DHCP server. A request for an IP address is sent from the device to the DHCP server through the WiFi service. The assigned IP address is associated with the MAC address at the DHCP server and the IP address is forwarded to the device through the WiFi service. The mobile communication device starts and makes the first HTTP request across the cellular WiFi data network to a remote server. Included in the request is data such as the MAC address the SSID the IP address and a PID.

An application server preferably generates all layouts. shows the WiFi management interface where the WiFi APP is create or edited . Offers are injected into Access GW BBX App and MobileWeb. Email is managed with venue offer systems and paired with content by the application server. All of the content and offer page views are preferably correlated with either a MAC address for a device or a loyalty rewards club ID and recorded in GOOGLE ANALYTICs corporate analytics or the like.

The mobile communication devices host devices utilized with the present invention preferably include mobile phones smartphones tablet computers PDAs and the like. Examples of smartphones include the IPHONE smartphone from Apple Inc. BLACKBERRY smartphones from Research In Motion the DROID smartphone from Motorola Mobility Inc. and many more. Examples of tablet computing devices include the IPAD tablet from Apple Inc. and the XOOM tablet from Motorola Mobility Inc.

As shown in a typical mobile communication device includes an accelerometer a head phone a microphone a speaker a GPS chipset a Bluetooth component a WiFi component a 3G 4G component a BaseBand Processor for radio control an applications processor JTAG debugger SDRAM memory Flash memory SIM card LCD display a camera a power management circuit and a battery or power source .

As shown in the mobile communication device has a mobile web browser which when used with the system of the present invention has a scriptlet which that is configured to run passively during browsing activity and configured to periodically perform latency tests such as timing HTTP requests between the mobile device and the application server to determine a quality of the WIFI network. The scriptlet is injected into content transferred from the Internet to the mobile browser of a mobile communication device. The scriptlet allows the mobile communication device to act like a monitoring device for the WiFi network. However the mobile communication device is preferably unaware that the scriptlet is monitoring the WiFi network using the mobile web browser of the mobile communication device .

Each of the interface descriptions preferably discloses use of at least one communication protocol to establish handshaking or bi directional communications. These protocols preferably include but are not limited to XML HTTP TCP IP Serial UDP FTP Web Services WAP SMTP SMPP DTS Stored Procedures Import Export Global Positioning Triangulation IM SMS MMS GPRS and Flash. The databases used with the system preferably include but are not limited to MSSQL Access MySQL Progress Oracle DB2 Open Source DBs and others. Operating system used with the system preferably include Microsoft 2010 XP Vista 200o Server 2003 Server 2008 Server Windows Mobile Linux Android Unix I series AS 400 and Apple OS.

The underlying protocol at a server is preferably Internet Protocol Suite Transfer Control Protocol Internet Protocol TCP IP and the transmission protocol to receive a file is preferably a file transfer protocol FTP FTP over SSL FTPS Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP Secure Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTPS or other similar protocols. The transmission protocol ranges from SIP to MGCP to FTP and beyond. The protocol at the server is preferably HTTPS.

A mobile communication service provider aka phone carrier of the customer such as VERIZON AT T SPRINT T MOBILE and the like mobile communication service providers provide the communication network for communication to the mobile communication device of the end user.

As shown in an application server preferably comprises a HTTP proxy engine and scriptlet in a system memory . The application server also preferably comprises a processor a storage peripheral interfaces an output controller and ports such as audio and visual and a communication controller and ports such as NIC network interface card . Those skilled in the pertinent art will recognize that more or less components may be utilized with the application server of the present invention.

A system for providing WIFI operators real time end user WIFI quality information is shown in . The system includes multiple wireless AP located throughout a venue which are part of a WiFi network. A controller receives and transmits communications from the wireless APs . The controller also receives and transmits communications from the Internet . The controller also receives and transmits communications from an application server a management console and an HHTP proxy engine . Multiple mobile communication devices access the WiFi network using a mobile browser.

The application server preferably comprises a scriptlet which is a Javascript code that is configured to run in the background of the browsing activity and configured to periodically test a latency of HTTP requests from the mobile device to the application server to determine a quality of the WIFI network. The scriptlet is injected into content transferred from the Internet to the mobile browser of a mobile communication device. The scriptlet allows the mobile communication device to act like a monitoring device for the WiFi network. However the mobile communication device is preferably unaware that the scriptlet is monitoring the WiFi network using the mobile web browser of the mobile communication device .

The periodic tests performed by the scriptlet is used in analytics also informing the application server of the preceding result as the scriptlet is performing a current test. The periodic tests are displayed over time and geography on the management console . shows an example of a wiFiAPP interface displaying WiFiApp activity that can be displayed on the management console. The periodic tests are preferably used to alert operators if quality levels of the WIFI network deteriorate to a predetermined threshold value. shows an example of a WiFiAPP interface displaying a list of WiFi APPs on a monthly basis.

The venue is preferably a casino resort a mall or a grocery store. Alternatively the venue is an airport a train station an amusement park or a business campus. A system includes a venue comprising multiple wireless APs .

A flow chart of a method for providing WIFI operators real time end user WIFI quality information is illustrated in . At block an application server performing web proxy services on a WIFI network receives an HTTP request for content from a mobile communication device of an end user. At block the requested content is received by the web proxy at the application server. At block a scriptlet is injected into the content transferred to a mobile web browser of the mobile communication device during a browsing activity. At block the latency of HTTP requests from the mobile communication device to the application server is monitored to determine a quality of the WIFI network.

A communications sequence diagram for providing WIFI operators real time end user WIFI quality information is illustrated in . An end user opens a mobile web browser on a mobile communication device and generates an HTTP request for a web page which is transmitted over a WiFi network through a wireless AP to an HTTP proxy on an application server . The HTTP request is forwarded from the HTTP proxy over the Internet to a targeted web site to retrieve the requested web page. The requested web page is sent back to the HTTP proxy and the application server injects a scriptlet into the content prior to returning the requested content to the mobile communication device over the WiFi network. The scriptlet periodically tests a latency of HTTP requests from the mobile device over the WiFI network to the application server and sends the latency results back to the application server to determine a quality of the WiFi network at various locations of a venue.

The system allows an operator to determine if a particular geographic location of a venue provides an adequate WiFi connection to a mobile communication device . Further the system provides an operator with quality information to determine if a geographic location is constantly below a threshold WiFi connection standard or only temporarily below a threshold WiFi connection standard as established by the venue. Network throughput measures the amount of data successfully transmitted between two locations in a data network usually not including header footer or routing information bits. It is generally measured in bits per second bps . Maximum theoretical WiFI throughput usually occurs between 150 Mbps to 450 Mbps.

Data communication network analysis can include but is not limited to certain measurements throughput bandwidth quality of service dropped packet rate packet latency round trip time propagation delay transmission delay processing delay queuing delay network capacity packet jitter bit error rate packet error rate and frame error rate. The present invention may be utilized with a marketing system such as disclosed in Boyle et al. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 671 538 filed on Nov. 7 2012 for a Method And System For Personalized Venue Marketing which is hereby incorporated by reference its entirety. The present invention may be utilized with a gaming system such as disclosed in Boyle U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 769 376 filed on Feb. 13 2013 for a System And Method For Managing Games In A Mobile Virtual Casino which is hereby incorporated by reference its entirety. The present invention may be utilized with a gaming system such as disclosed in Boyle U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 756 591 filed on Jan. 31 2013 for a System And Method For Virtual Currency In A Virtual Casino which is hereby incorporated by reference its entirety. The present invention may be utilized with a gaming system such as disclosed in Boyle U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 789 686 filed on Mar. 8 2013 for a System And Method For Secure Play In A Mobile Virtual Casino which is hereby incorporated by reference its entirety. The method and system of the present invention may be utilized with an anonymous loyalty program such as described in Boyle U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 620 720 filed on Sep. 15 2012 for an Anonymous Rewards Club Program which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. The method and system of the present invention may be utilized with the system described in Boyle et al. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 783 346 filed on Mar. 3 2013 for a Method And System For Detection And Correction of WiFI Login Failure which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. The method and system of the present invention may be utilized with the system described in Greer et al. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 775 226 filed on Feb. 24 2013 for a Segmented Architecture Method And System which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. The method and system of the present invention may be utilized with the system described in Boyle U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 844 585 filed on Mar. 15 2013 for a Method And System For Freemium WiFi Service which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. The method and system of the present invention may be utilized with the system described in Boyle U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 843 627 filed on Mar. 15 2013 for a Method And System For Incentivizing On Site Participation In Games And Offers which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. The method and system of the present invention may be utilized with the system described in Boyle U.S. Patent Application No. 61 827 013 filed on May 23 2013 for a Method And System For Including Content In A WiFi Stream which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

From the foregoing it is believed that those skilled in the pertinent art will recognize the meritorious advancement of this invention and will readily understand that while the present invention has been described in association with a preferred embodiment thereof and other embodiments illustrated in the accompanying drawings numerous changes modification and substitutions of equivalents may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of this invention which is intended to be unlimited by the foregoing except as may appear in the following appended claim. Therefore the embodiments of the invention in which an exclusive property or privilege is claimed are defined in the following appended claims.

