---

title: Native application testing
abstract: In one embodiment, a method includes deploying an application to a plurality of client system, providing a treatment of the application to a set of client systems by receiving a request from the client system, determining whether the client system belongs in a treat group, remotely activating the treatment, and synchronizing activation of the treatment in response to subsequent requests, and receiving exposure data from the set of client system identifying exposure of the users to the treatment.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09305322&OS=09305322&RS=09305322
owner: Facebook, Inc.
number: 09305322
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130723
---
This disclosure generally relates to online social networks and launching features or products in online environments.

A social networking system which may include a social networking website may enable its users such as persons or organizations to interact with it and with each other through it. The social networking system may with input from a user create and store in the social networking system a user profile associated with the user. The user profile may include demographic information communication channel information and information on personal interests of the user. The social networking system may also with input from a user create and store a record of relationships of the user with other users of the social networking system as well as provide services e.g. wall posts photo sharing event organization messaging games or advertisements to facilitate social interaction between or among users.

The social networking system may send over one or more networks content or messages related to its services to a mobile or other computing system of a user. A user may also install software applications on a mobile or other computing system of the user for accessing a user profile of the user and other data within the social networking system. The social networking system may generate a personalized set of content objects to display to a user such as a newsfeed of aggregated stories of other users connected to the user.

A B testing is a standard approach for evaluating the effects of online experiments. A B testing typically uses randomized experiments with two variants typically referred to as A and B which represent the control and treatment in the experiment. Such experiments are commonly used in web development and marketing as well as in more traditional forms of advertising. In online settings the objective is typically to determine how changes to the online environment affect user behavior with the environment. The control and treatment groups are compared which are generally identical except for a single variation that might impact a user s behavior.

In particular embodiments the social networking system may improve how new products features advertisements or experiences treatments are launched to users of the online social network by providing users with native application that include treatments that can be controlled and monitored remotely. A B testing is a standard approach for evaluating the effect of online experiments. The goal is typically to estimate the average treatment effect of a new product feature or condition by exposing a sample of the overall population to it. In particular embodiments the experiments may also include measuring a matrix of parameters e.g. a number of likes a number of comments revenue generated etc. against a set of users to determine the effectiveness of the particular treatment. The problem is that while a treatment may be activated on a particular client system particular events may cause the treatment to be disabled. For example a cache clearing event e.g. a clearing of settings files temporary files cookies or other cached objects that specify whether a particular treatment should be active on the application or a deletion event e.g. the user deletes and re installs the application may reset the application so that it does not provide the treatment to the user. By synchronizing activation of the treatment between the client systems and the social networking system the experiment can be run so that users are effectively maintained in the treatment group even if there is a cache clearing or deletion event. In this way the A B experiment can be run so that users are effectively maintained in the treatment group even if there is a cache clearing or deletion event. Data received from this first set of users can then be analyzed to determine the treatment effect of the treatment on those users. The treatment may then be modified before being rolled out to users in the next set of users.

This disclosure contemplates any suitable network . As an example and not by way of limitation one or more portions of network may include an ad hoc network an intranet an extranet a virtual private network VPN a local area network LAN a wireless LAN WLAN a wide area network WAN a wireless WAN WWAN a metropolitan area network MAN a portion of the Internet a portion of the Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN a cellular telephone network or a combination of two or more of these. Network may include one or more networks .

Links may connect client system social networking system and third party system to communication network or to each other. This disclosure contemplates any suitable links . In particular embodiments one or more links include one or more wireline such as for example Digital Subscriber Line DSL or Data Over Cable Service Interface Specification DOCSIS wireless such as for example Wi Fi or Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX or optical such as for example Synchronous Optical Network SONET or Synchronous Digital Hierarchy SDH links. In particular embodiments one or more links each include an ad hoc network an intranet an extranet a VPN a LAN a WLAN a WAN a WWAN a MAN a portion of the Internet a portion of the PSTN a cellular technology based network a satellite communications technology based network another link or a combination of two or more such links . Links need not necessarily be the same throughout network environment . One or more first links may differ in one or more respects from one or more second links .

In particular embodiments client system may be an electronic device including hardware software or embedded logic components or a combination of two or more such components and capable of carrying out the appropriate functionalities implemented or supported by client system . As an example and not by way of limitation a client system may include a computer system such as a desktop computer notebook or laptop computer netbook a tablet computer e book reader GPS device camera personal digital assistant PDA handheld electronic device cellular telephone smartphone other suitable electronic device or any suitable combination thereof. This disclosure contemplates any suitable client systems . A client system may enable a network user at client system to access network . A client system may enable its user to communicate with other users at other client systems .

In particular embodiments client system may include a web browser such as MICROSOFT INTERNET EXPLORER GOOGLE CHROME or MOZILLA FIREFOX and may have one or more add ons plug ins or other extensions such as TOOLBAR or YAHOO TOOLBAR. A user at client system may enter a Uniform Resource Locator URL or other address directing the web browser to a particular server such as server or a server associated with a third party system and the web browser may generate a Hyper Text Transfer Protocol HTTP request and communicate the HTTP request to server. The server may accept the HTTP request and communicate to client system one or more Hyper Text Markup Language HTML files responsive to the HTTP request. Client system may render a webpage based on the HTML files from the server for presentation to the user. This disclosure contemplates any suitable webpage files. As an example and not by way of limitation webpages may render from HTML files Extensible Hyper Text Markup Language XHTML files or Extensible Markup Language XML files according to particular needs. Such pages may also execute scripts such as for example and without limitation those written in JAVASCRIPT JAVA MICROSOFT SILVERLIGHT combinations of markup language and scripts such as AJAX Asynchronous JAVASCRIPT and XML and the like. Herein reference to a webpage encompasses one or more corresponding webpage files which a browser may use to render the webpage and vice versa where appropriate.

In particular embodiments social networking system may be a network addressable computing system that can host an online social network. Social networking system may generate store receive and send social networking data such as for example user profile data concept profile data social graph information or other suitable data related to the online social network. Social networking system may be accessed by the other components of network environment either directly or via network . In particular embodiments social networking system may include one or more servers . Each server may be a unitary server or a distributed server spanning multiple computers or multiple datacenters. Servers may be of various types such as for example and without limitation web server news server mail server message server advertising server file server application server exchange server database server proxy server another server suitable for performing functions or processes described herein or any combination thereof. In particular embodiments each server may include hardware software or embedded logic components or a combination of two or more such components for carrying out the appropriate functionalities implemented or supported by server . In particular embodiments social networking system may include one or more data stores . Data stores may be used to store various types of information. In particular embodiments the information stored in data stores may be organized according to specific data structures. In particular embodiments each data store may be a relational columnar correlation or other suitable database. Although this disclosure describes or illustrates particular types of databases this disclosure contemplates any suitable types of databases. Particular embodiments may provide interfaces that enable a client system a social networking system or a third party system to manage retrieve modify add or delete the information stored in data store .

In particular embodiments social networking system may store one or more social graphs in one or more data stores . In particular embodiments a social graph may include multiple nodes which may include multiple user nodes each corresponding to a particular user or multiple concept nodes each corresponding to a particular concept and multiple edges connecting the nodes. Social networking system may provide users of the online social network the ability to communicate and interact with other users. In particular embodiments users may join the online social network via social networking system and then add connections e.g. relationships to a number of other users of social networking system whom they want to be connected to. Herein the term friend may refer to any other user of social networking system with whom a user has formed a connection association or relationship via social networking system .

In particular embodiments social networking system may provide users with the ability to take actions on various types of items or objects supported by social networking system . As an example and not by way of limitation the items and objects may include groups or social networks to which users of social networking system may belong events or calendar entries in which a user might be interested computer based applications that a user may use transactions that allow users to buy or sell items via the service interactions with advertisements that a user may perform or other suitable items or objects. A user may interact with anything that is capable of being represented in social networking system or by an external system of third party system which is separate from social networking system and coupled to social networking system via a network .

In particular embodiments social networking system may be capable of linking a variety of entities. As an example and not by way of limitation social networking system may enable users to interact with each other as well as receive content from third party systems or other entities or to allow users to interact with these entities through an application programming interfaces API or other communication channels.

In particular embodiments a third party system may include one or more types of servers one or more data stores one or more interfaces including but not limited to APIs one or more web services one or more content sources one or more networks or any other suitable components e.g. that servers may communicate with. A third party system may be operated by a different entity from an entity operating social networking system . In particular embodiments however social networking system and third party systems may operate in conjunction with each other to provide social networking services to users of social networking system or third party systems . In this sense social networking system may provide a platform or backbone which other systems such as third party systems may use to provide social networking services and functionality to users across the Internet.

In particular embodiments a third party system may include a third party content object provider. A third party content object provider may include one or more sources of content objects which may be communicated to a client system . As an example and not by way of limitation content objects may include information regarding things or activities of interest to the user such as for example movie show times movie reviews restaurant reviews restaurant menus product information and reviews or other suitable information. As another example and not by way of limitation content objects may include incentive content objects such as coupons discount tickets gift certificates or other suitable incentive objects.

In particular embodiments social networking system also includes user generated content objects which may enhance a user s interactions with social networking system . User generated content may include anything a user can add upload send or post to social networking system . As an example and not by way of limitation a user communicates posts to social networking system from a client system . Posts may include data such as status updates or other textual data location information photos videos links music or other similar data or media. Content may also be added to social networking system by a third party through a communication channel such as a newsfeed or stream.

In particular embodiments social networking system may include a variety of servers sub systems programs modules logs and data stores. In particular embodiments social networking system may include one or more of the following a web server action logger API request server relevance and ranking engine content object classifier notification controller action log third party content object exposure log inference module authorization privacy server search module advertisement targeting module user interface module user profile store connection store third party content store or location store. Social networking system may also include suitable components such as network interfaces security mechanisms load balancers failover servers management and network operations consoles other suitable components or any suitable combination thereof. In particular embodiments social networking system may include one or more user profile stores for storing user profiles. A user profile may include for example biographic information demographic information behavioral information social information or other types of descriptive information such as work experience educational history hobbies or preferences interests affinities or location. Interest information may include interests related to one or more categories. Categories may be general or specific. As an example and not by way of limitation if a user likes an article about a brand of shoes the category may be the brand or the general category of shoes or clothing. A connection store may be used for storing connection information about users. The connection information may indicate users who have similar or common work experience group memberships hobbies educational history or are in any way related or share common attributes. The connection information may also include user defined connections between different users and content both internal and external . A web server may be used for linking social networking system to one or more client systems or one or more third party system via network . The web server may include a mail server or other messaging functionality for receiving and routing messages between social networking system and one or more client systems . An API request server may allow a third party system to access information from social networking system by calling one or more APIs. An action logger may be used to receive communications from a web server about a user s actions on or off social networking system . In conjunction with the action log a third party content object log may be maintained of user exposures to third party content objects. A notification controller may provide information regarding content objects to a client system . Information may be pushed to a client system as notifications or information may be pulled from client system responsive to a request received from client system . Authorization servers may be used to enforce one or more privacy settings of the users of social networking system . A privacy setting of a user determines how particular information associated with a user can be shared. The authorization server may allow users to opt in to or opt out of having their actions logged by social networking system or shared with other systems e.g. third party system such as for example by setting appropriate privacy settings. Third party content object stores may be used to store content objects received from third parties such as a third party system . Location stores may be used for storing location information received from client systems associated with users. Advertisement pricing modules may combine social information the current time location information or other suitable information to provide relevant advertisements in the form of notifications to a user.

In particular embodiments a user node may correspond to a user of social networking system . As an example and not by way of limitation a user may be an individual human user an entity e.g. an enterprise business or third party application or a group e.g. of individuals or entities that interacts or communicates with or over social networking system . In particular embodiments when a user registers for an account with social networking system social networking system may create a user node corresponding to the user and store the user node in one or more data stores. Users and user nodes described herein may where appropriate refer to registered users and user nodes associated with registered users. In addition or as an alternative users and user nodes described herein may where appropriate refer to users that have not registered with social networking system . In particular embodiments a user node may be associated with information provided by a user or information gathered by various systems including social networking system . As an example and not by way of limitation a user may provide his or her name profile picture contact information birth date sex marital status family status employment education background preferences interests or other demographic information. In particular embodiments a user node may be associated with one or more data objects corresponding to information associated with a user. In particular embodiments a user node may correspond to one or more webpages.

In particular embodiments a concept node may correspond to a concept. As an example and not by way of limitation a concept may correspond to a place such as for example a movie theater restaurant landmark or city a website such as for example a website associated with social network system or a third party website associated with a web application server an entity such as for example a person business group sports team or celebrity a resource such as for example an audio file video file digital photo text file structured document or application which may be located within social networking system or on an external server such as a web application server real or intellectual property such as for example a sculpture painting movie game song idea photograph or written work a game an activity an idea or theory another suitable concept or two or more such concepts. A concept node may be associated with information of a concept provided by a user or information gathered by various systems including social networking system . As an example and not by way of limitation information of a concept may include a name or a title one or more images e.g. an image of the cover page of a book a location e.g. an address or a geographical location a website which may be associated with a URL contact information e.g. a phone number or an email address other suitable concept information or any suitable combination of such information. In particular embodiments a concept node may be associated with one or more data objects corresponding to information associated with concept node . In particular embodiments a concept node may correspond to one or more webpages.

In particular embodiments a node in social graph may represent or be represented by a webpage which may be referred to as a profile page . Profile pages may be hosted by or accessible to social networking system . Profile pages may also be hosted on third party websites associated with a third party server . As an example and not by way of limitation a profile page corresponding to a particular external webpage may be the particular external webpage and the profile page may correspond to a particular concept node . Profile pages may be viewable by all or a selected subset of other users. As an example and not by way of limitation a user node may have a corresponding user profile page in which the corresponding user may add content make declarations or otherwise express himself or herself. As another example and not by way of limitation a concept node may have a corresponding concept profile page in which one or more users may add content make declarations or express themselves particularly in relation to the concept corresponding to concept node .

In particular embodiments a concept node may represent a third party webpage or resource hosted by a third party system . The third party webpage or resource may include among other elements content a selectable or other icon or other inter actable object which may be implemented for example in JavaScript AJAX or PHP codes representing an action or activity. As an example and not by way of limitation a third party webpage may include a selectable icon such as like check in eat recommend or another suitable action or activity. A user viewing the third party webpage may perform an action by selecting one of the icons e.g. eat causing a client system to send to social networking system a message indicating the user s action. In response to the message social networking system may create an edge e.g. an eat edge between a user node corresponding to the user and a concept node corresponding to the third party webpage or resource and store edge in one or more data stores.

In particular embodiments a pair of nodes in social graph may be connected to each other by one or more edges . An edge connecting a pair of nodes may represent a relationship between the pair of nodes. In particular embodiments an edge may include or represent one or more data objects or attributes corresponding to the relationship between a pair of nodes. As an example and not by way of limitation a first user may indicate that a second user is a friend of the first user. In response to this indication social networking system may send a friend request to the second user. If the second user confirms the friend request social networking system may create an edge connecting the first user s user node to the second user s user node in social graph and store edge as social graph information in one or more of data stores . In the example of social graph includes an edge indicating a friend relation between user nodes of user A and user B and an edge indicating a friend relation between user nodes of user C and user B. Although this disclosure describes or illustrates particular edges with particular attributes connecting particular user nodes this disclosure contemplates any suitable edges with any suitable attributes connecting user nodes . As an example and not by way of limitation an edge may represent a friendship family relationship business or employment relationship fan relationship follower relationship visitor relationship subscriber relationship superior subordinate relationship reciprocal relationship non reciprocal relationship another suitable type of relationship or two or more such relationships. Moreover although this disclosure generally describes nodes as being connected this disclosure also describes users or concepts as being connected. Herein references to users or concepts being connected may where appropriate refer to the nodes corresponding to those users or concepts being connected in social graph by one or more edges .

In particular embodiments an edge between a user node and a concept node may represent a particular action or activity performed by a user associated with user node toward a concept associated with a concept node . As an example and not by way of limitation as illustrated in a user may like attended played listened cooked worked at or watched a concept each of which may correspond to a edge type or subtype. A concept profile page corresponding to a concept node may include for example a selectable check in icon such as for example a clickable check in icon or a selectable add to favorites icon. Similarly after a user clicks these icons social networking system may create a favorite edge or a check in edge in response to a user s action corresponding to a respective action. As another example and not by way of limitation a user user C may listen to a particular song Imagine using a particular application SPOTIFY which is an online music application . In this case social networking system may create a listened edge and a used edge as illustrated in between user nodes corresponding to the user and concept nodes corresponding to the song and application to indicate that the user listened to the song and used the application. Moreover social networking system may create a played edge as illustrated in between concept nodes corresponding to the song and the application to indicate that the particular song was played by the particular application. In this case played edge corresponds to an action performed by an external application SPOTIFY on an external audio file the song Imagine . Although this disclosure describes particular edges with particular attributes connecting user nodes and concept nodes this disclosure contemplates any suitable edges with any suitable attributes connecting user nodes and concept nodes . Moreover although this disclosure describes edges between a user node and a concept node representing a single relationship this disclosure contemplates edges between a user node and a concept node representing one or more relationships. As an example and not by way of limitation an edge may represent both that a user likes and has used at a particular concept. Alternatively another edge may represent each type of relationship or multiples of a single relationship between a user node and a concept node as illustrated in between user node for user E and concept node for SPOTIFY .

In particular embodiments social networking system may create an edge between a user node and a concept node in social graph . As an example and not by way of limitation a user viewing a concept profile page such as for example by using a web browser or a special purpose application hosted by the user s client system may indicate that he or she likes the concept represented by the concept node by clicking or selecting a Like icon which may cause the user s client system to send to social networking system a message indicating the user s liking of the concept associated with the concept profile page. In response to the message social networking system may create an edge between user node associated with the user and concept node as illustrated by like edge between the user and concept node . In particular embodiments social networking system may store an edge in one or more data stores. In particular embodiments an edge may be automatically formed by social networking system in response to a particular user action. As an example and not by way of limitation if a first user uploads a picture watches a movie or listens to a song an edge may be formed between user node corresponding to the first user and concept nodes corresponding to those concepts. Although this disclosure describes forming particular edges in particular manners this disclosure contemplates forming any suitable edges in any suitable manner.

In particular embodiments social networking system may improve how new products features advertisements or experiences treatments are launched to users of the online social network by providing users with native application that include treatments that can be controlled and monitored remotely. A B testing is a standard approach for evaluating the effect of online experiments. The goal is typically to estimate the average treatment effect of a new product feature or condition by exposing a sample of the overall population to it. In particular embodiments the experiments may also include measuring a matrix of parameters e.g. a number of likes a number of comments revenue generated etc. against a set of users to determine the effectiveness of the particular treatment. The problem is that while a treatment may be activated on a particular client system particular events may cause the treatment to be disabled. For example a cache clearing event e.g. a clearing of settings files temporary files cookies or other cached objects that specify whether a particular treatment should be active on the application or a deletion event e.g. the user deletes and re installs the application may reset the application so that it does not provide the treatment to the user. By synchronizing activation of the treatment between client systems and social networking system the experiment can be run so that users are effectively maintained in the treatment group even if there is a cache clearing or deletion event. In this way the A B experiment can be run so that users are effectively maintained in the treatment group even if there is a cache clearing or deletion event. Data received from this first set of users can then be analyzed to determine the treatment effect of the treatment on those users. The treatment may then be modified before being rolled out to users in the next set of users. This stepwise approach to rolling out the treatment may be taken until the treatment has been provided to all users of the online social network. Although this disclosure describes providing treatments to users and determining treatment effects in a particular manner this disclosure contemplates providing treatments to user or determining treatment effects in any suitable manner.

In the A B testing approach it is important to make sure a user in the treatment group is actually being exposed to the treatment. When a new product feature etc. is rolled out in a desktop environment e.g. via a web browser social networking system can determine user exposure to the treatment or lack of it as part of the user s viewing of the webpage servers by social networking system . However where social networking system is accessed via a native application installed on a client system e.g. from an app on a mobile client user exposure to the treatment is not necessarily certain because social networking system may not always be able to detect what the user is viewing or doing on the native application whether the native application has been deleted from client system whether usage data related to the native application has been cleared from a cache on client system and so on. These uncertainties in user exposure to the native application may reduce accuracy in measuring the matrix of parameters for determining effectiveness of the treatment.

In particular embodiments social networking system may deploy an application to a plurality of client systems associated with a plurality of users respectively. The application may be installed on each of the client systems . As an example and not by way of limitation a native application may be installed on a mobile client system that allows the user to access social networking system via the native application rather than via a web browser . In particular embodiments one or more treatments may be remotely activated on the application. For A B randomized experiments the treatment condition of an individual decides whether or not they are subject to an intervention. This typically takes two values treatment or control . In most randomized experiments the experimenter has explicit control over how to randomize the treatment conditions and generally individuals are assigned independently. Meanwhile the exposure condition of an individual determines how they experience the intervention in full conjunction with how the world experiences the intervention. As an example and not by way of limitation the native application may include functionality so that particular features or experiences are included with the application but not necessarily provided to the user. In other words the native application may include one or more optional treatments. These treatments may be activated for example in response to instructions from social networking system to activate a specific feature or experience in the native application. The treatments may be remotely activated on a user by user basis such that for example particular user may be provided with a treatment while others may not. Although this disclosure describes deploying particular applications in a particular manner this disclosure contemplates deploying any suitable applications in any suitable manner.

In particular embodiments social networking system may provide a treatment to a first set of client systems corresponding to a first set of users respectively. The treatment may be for example a particular advertisement product feature experience other suitable treatment or any combination thereof. Under ordinary randomized trials where the stable unit treatment value assumption is a reasonable approximation such as for example when a search engine A B tests the effect of their color scheme upon the visitation time of their users the population is divided into two groups those in the treatment group who see the new color scheme A and those in the control group who see the default color scheme B . Assuming there are negligible interference effects between users each individual in the treated group responds just as he or she would if the entire population were treated and each individual in the control group responds just as he or she would if the entire population were in control. In this manner we may imagine that we are observing results from samples of two distinct parallel universes at the same time for example Universe A in which color scheme A is used for everyone and Universe B in which color scheme B is used for everyone and we may make inferences about the properties of user behavior in each of these universes. The treatment may be provided via the online social network or via a third party system . Social networking system may then determine a treatment effect of the treatment for the users of the first set of users. Although this disclosure described proving particular treatments in a particular manner this disclosure contemplates providing any suitable treatments in any suitable manner.

In particular embodiments social networking system may synchronize with client systems to provide a treatment to the client system . This may allow social networking system to accurately record exposure and usage of a native application locally installed at a client system . Client system may synchronize the states of the native application with social networking system by sending back to social networking system events corresponding to changes in states of the native application on client system . As an example and not by way of limitation the events sent to social networking system may be a deployment event an exposure event a cache clearing event or a conversion event associated with the native application. By receiving those events from multiple client systems social networking system may construct accurate logs of exposure and usage of the native app at those client systems and calculate the matrix of parameters accurately. As an example and not by way of limitation social networking system may receive a request from an application installed on the client system to access social networking system . Social networking system may then determine whether the client system belongs in a treatment group associated with the treatment. If the client system belongs in the treatment group social networking system may remotely activate the treatment on the client system . Similarly if the client system belongs in a control group social networking system may not activate any treatments or if the treatment was for some reason activated social networking system may at that point deactivate the treatment . In response to subsequent access by the client system social networking system may synchronize activation of the treatment. The treatment may have been deactivated for a variety of reasons such that social networking system needs to determine whether the client system is still providing the treatment to the user. For example in response to a subsequent access by the client system social networking system may determine whether the treatment is still active on the client system . If so then no action may need to be taken. However if the treatment is determined to be not active on the client system social networking system may remotely re active the treatment on the client system . In this way the A B experiment can be run so that users are effectively maintained in the treatment group even if there is a cache clearing or deletion event. Although this disclosure describes synchronizing particular treatments in a particular manner this disclosure contemplates synchronizing any suitable treatments in any suitable manner.

In particular embodiments social networking system may deactivate the treatment on the first set of client systems after a specified timeout period. Any suitable timeout period may be used. As an example and not by way of limitation the treatment on the native application may timeout eight weeks after being activated on client system . As another example and not by way of limitation the treatment may timeout on a specified date. The timeout period may be specified on a user by user basis e.g. eight weeks after the particular customer installed the application or on a global basis e.g. eight weeks after the experiment began regardless of when during that period a user entered the experiment . Deactivating the treatment means that the product feature experience etc. that comprised the treatment would stop being provided to the user. After timing out the user may then be provided with the default e.g. control product experience on the native application. In particular embodiments client system may send a timeout event to social networking system . In this way social networking system may not need to track all the experiments associated with the native app thus improving overall productivity and development efficiency. Although this disclosure describes deactivating treatments in a particular manner this disclosure contemplates deactivating treatments in any suitable manner.

In particular embodiments social networking system may provide the treatment to clusters of users in a network aware manner. Social networking system may identify a plurality of clusters in social graph using graph cluster randomization. Each identified cluster may comprise a discrete set of nodes from the plurality of nodes of social graph . In particular embodiments social networking system may specify clusters such that a threshold number of nodes in each cluster may be network exposed with respect to the other nodes in the cluster. In particular embodiments social networking system may identify clusters based at least in part on the social graph affinity of users with respect to each other. Rather than just clustering users based on being neighbors in social graph i.e. being connected by an edge social networking system may cluster neighbors having a relatively high social graph affinity for each other. In other words user i may be clustered with j neighbors having above a threshold affinity with respect to user i while neighbors having less affinity for user i may not necessarily be included in the cluster. Although this disclosure describes identifying clusters with network exposure in a particular manner this disclosure contemplates identifying clusters with network exposure in any suitable manner. In connection with identifying and selecting user sets particular embodiments may utilize one or more systems components elements functions methods operations or steps disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 939 093 filed 10 Jul. 2013 which is incorporated by reference.

In particular embodiments social networking system may receive treatment data from the first set of client systems . Social networking system may calculate a matrix of parameters based on the set of users that were exposed to a particular treatment of the native application as determined by the events sent back to social networking system during a specified period of time. For the same period of time social networking system may also construct a control group including users who were not exposed to the particular treatment of the native application while accessing social networking system from their client systems during the same period of time. In particular embodiments social networking system may receive exposure data from the first set of client systems. The exposure data for each client system may identify an exposure of the user of the client system the treatment. As an example and not by way of limitation if the treatment is a particular advertisement the exposure data may identify whether the advertisement was displayed to the user of the native application. In particular embodiments social networking system may receive conversion data from the first set of client systems. The conversion data for each client system may identify user interactions with respect to the treatment. As an example and not by way of limitation continuing with the prior example if the treatment was an advertisement the conversion data may identify whether clicked on or otherwise interacted with the advertisement. Although this disclosure describes receiving particular treatment data in a particular manner this disclosure contemplates receiving any suitable treatment data in any suitable manner.

In particular embodiments social networking system may determine a treatment effect of a treatment for the users of a first set of users. Social networking system may test a treatment by providing it to a subset of users of the online social network. In particular embodiments the treatment may have a social component in that i s reaction to the treatment depends on whether a neighbor j in the online social network also has the treatment. This social component may also be referred to as the network effect of the treatment. As an example and not by way of limitation particular treatments may exhibit social components such as for example social advertisements text video chat messaging social networking etc. For example for text video chatting features those features are only useful if user i has one or more neighbors j to chat with. An individual user is considered to be in the treatment group if the individual is provided with the treatment for the test and in the control group otherwise. There may be an underlying numerical response variable of interest for example the user s time on site in each condition and social networking system may estimate the average of this response in both the universe where everyone has the service and the universe where no one has the service. Let right arrow over z 0 1be the treatment assignment vector where z 1 means that user i is in the treatment group and z 0 means the user i is in the control. Let Y right arrow over z R be the potential outcome of user i under the treatment assignment vector right arrow over z . We are interested in is the average treatment effect between the two groups right arrow over z right arrow over 1 and right arrow over z right arrow over 0 where the average treatment effect may be calculated as 

In particular embodiments social networking system may provide the treatment to a second set of users. The processed described herein may then be repeated as necessary until the treatment has been provided to all users of the online social network. In this way an advertisement feature or product may be rolled out out to users of the online social network. In particular embodiments after the treatment effect has been determined for the first set of users social networking system may modify the treatment based on the determined treatment effect of the treatment. The advertisement feature or product may be modified based on the determined treatment effect to for example optimize a user s interactions or experience with the treatment. The modified treatment may then be provided to an additional set of users and successively modified and rolled out to additional users until for example it has been sufficiently improved and can be launched to the entire online social network. Although this disclosure describes providing a treatment and determining treatment effects in a particular manner this disclosure contemplates providing a treatment or determining treatment effects in any suitable manner.

In particular embodiments an advertisement may be text which may be HTML linked one or more images which may be HTML linked one or more videos audio one or more ADOBE FLASH files a suitable combination of these or any other suitable advertisement in any suitable digital format presented on one or more webpages in one or more e mails or in connection with search results requested by a user. In addition or as an alternative an advertisement may be one or more sponsored stories e.g. a news feed or ticker item on social networking system . A sponsored story may be a social action by a user such as liking a page liking or commenting on a post on a page RSVPing to an event associated with a page voting on a question posted on a page checking in to a place using an application or playing a game or liking or sharing a website that an advertiser promotes for example by having the social action presented within a pre determined area of a profile page of a user or other page presented with additional information associated with the advertiser bumped up or otherwise highlighted within news feeds or tickers of other users or otherwise promoted. The advertiser may pay to have the social action promoted. As an example and not by way of limitation advertisements may be included among the search results of a search results page where sponsored content is promoted over non sponsored content. In particular embodiments one or more advertisements may be tested on one or more clusters of users of the online social network using network aware product rollout techniques described previously.

In particular embodiments an advertisement may be requested for display within social networking system webpages third party webpages or other pages. An advertisement may be displayed in a dedicated portion of a page such as in a banner area at the top of the page in a column at the side of the page in a GUI of the page in a pop up window in a drop down menu in an input field of the page over the top of content of the page or elsewhere with respect to the page. In addition or as an alternative an advertisement may be displayed within an application. An advertisement may be displayed within dedicated pages requiring the user to interact with or watch the advertisement before the user may access a page or utilize an application. The user may for example view the advertisement through a web browser.

A user may interact with an advertisement in any suitable manner. The user may click or otherwise select the advertisement. By selecting the advertisement the user may be directed to or a browser or other application being used by the user a page associated with the advertisement. At the page associated with the advertisement the user may take additional actions such as purchasing a product or service associated with the advertisement receiving information associated with the advertisement or subscribing to a newsletter associated with the advertisement. An advertisement with audio or video may be played by selecting a component of the advertisement like a play button . Alternatively by selecting the advertisement social networking system may execute or modify a particular action of the user.

An advertisement may also include social networking system functionality that a user may interact with. As an example and not by way of limitation an advertisement may enable a user to like or otherwise endorse the advertisement by selecting an icon or link associated with endorsement. As another example and not by way of limitation an advertisement may enable a user to search e.g. by executing a query for content related to the advertiser. Similarly a user may share the advertisement with another user e.g. through social networking system or RSVP e.g. through social networking system to an event associated with the advertisement. In addition or as an alternative an advertisement may include social networking system context directed to the user. As an example and not by way of limitation an advertisement may display information about a friend of the user within social networking system who has taken an action associated with the subject matter of the advertisement.

This disclosure contemplates any suitable number of computer systems . This disclosure contemplates computer system taking any suitable physical form. As example and not by way of limitation computer system may be an embedded computer system a system on chip SOC a single board computer system SBC such as for example a computer on module COM or system on module SOM a desktop computer system a laptop or notebook computer system an interactive kiosk a mainframe a mesh of computer systems a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a server a tablet computer system or a combination of two or more of these. Where appropriate computer system may include one or more computer systems be unitary or distributed span multiple locations span multiple machines span multiple data centers or reside in a cloud which may include one or more cloud components in one or more networks. Where appropriate one or more computer systems may perform without substantial spatial or temporal limitation one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. As an example and not by way of limitation one or more computer systems may perform in real time or in batch mode one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. One or more computer systems may perform at different times or at different locations one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein where appropriate.

In particular embodiments computer system includes a processor memory storage an input output I O interface a communication interface and a bus . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular computer system having a particular number of particular components in a particular arrangement this disclosure contemplates any suitable computer system having any suitable number of any suitable components in any suitable arrangement.

In particular embodiments processor includes hardware for executing instructions such as those making up a computer program. As an example and not by way of limitation to execute instructions processor may retrieve or fetch the instructions from an internal register an internal cache memory or storage decode and execute them and then write one or more results to an internal register an internal cache memory or storage . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal caches for data instructions or addresses. This disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal caches where appropriate. As an example and not by way of limitation processor may include one or more instruction caches one or more data caches and one or more translation lookaside buffers TLBs . Instructions in the instruction caches may be copies of instructions in memory or storage and the instruction caches may speed up retrieval of those instructions by processor . Data in the data caches may be copies of data in memory or storage for instructions executing at processor to operate on the results of previous instructions executed at processor for access by subsequent instructions executing at processor or for writing to memory or storage or other suitable data. The data caches may speed up read or write operations by processor . The TLBs may speed up virtual address translation for processor . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal registers for data instructions or addresses. This disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal registers where appropriate. Where appropriate processor may include one or more arithmetic logic units ALUs be a multi core processor or include one or more processors . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular processor this disclosure contemplates any suitable processor.

In particular embodiments memory includes main memory for storing instructions for processor to execute or data for processor to operate on. As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may load instructions from storage or another source such as for example another computer system to memory . Processor may then load the instructions from memory to an internal register or internal cache. To execute the instructions processor may retrieve the instructions from the internal register or internal cache and decode them. During or after execution of the instructions processor may write one or more results which may be intermediate or final results to the internal register or internal cache. Processor may then write one or more of those results to memory . In particular embodiments processor executes only instructions in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere and operates only on data in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere . One or more memory buses which may each include an address bus and a data bus may couple processor to memory . Bus may include one or more memory buses as described below. In particular embodiments one or more memory management units MMUs reside between processor and memory and facilitate accesses to memory requested by processor . In particular embodiments memory includes random access memory RAM . This RAM may be volatile memory where appropriate Where appropriate this RAM may be dynamic RAM DRAM or static RAM SRAM . Moreover where appropriate this RAM may be single ported or multi ported RAM. This disclosure contemplates any suitable RAM. Memory may include one or more memories where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular memory this disclosure contemplates any suitable memory.

In particular embodiments storage includes mass storage for data or instructions. As an example and not by way of limitation storage may include a hard disk drive HDD a floppy disk drive flash memory an optical disc a magneto optical disc magnetic tape or a Universal Serial Bus USB drive or a combination of two or more of these. Storage may include removable or non removable or fixed media where appropriate. Storage may be internal or external to computer system where appropriate. In particular embodiments storage is non volatile solid state memory. In particular embodiments storage includes read only memory ROM . Where appropriate this ROM may be mask programmed ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable PROM EPROM electrically erasable PROM EEPROM electrically alterable ROM EAROM or flash memory or a combination of two or more of these. This disclosure contemplates mass storage taking any suitable physical form. Storage may include one or more storage control units facilitating communication between processor and storage where appropriate. Where appropriate storage may include one or more storages . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular storage this disclosure contemplates any suitable storage.

In particular embodiments I O interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication between computer system and one or more I O devices. Computer system may include one or more of these I O devices where appropriate. One or more of these I O devices may enable communication between a person and computer system . As an example and not by way of limitation an I O device may include a keyboard keypad microphone monitor mouse printer scanner speaker still camera stylus tablet touch screen trackball video camera another suitable I O device or a combination of two or more of these. An I O device may include one or more sensors. This disclosure contemplates any suitable I O devices and any suitable I O interfaces for them. Where appropriate I O interface may include one or more device or software drivers enabling processor to drive one or more of these I O devices. I O interface may include one or more I O interfaces where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular I O interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable I O interface.

In particular embodiments communication interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication such as for example packet based communication between computer system and one or more other computer systems or one or more networks. As an example and not by way of limitation communication interface may include a network interface controller NIC or network adapter for communicating with an Ethernet or other wire based network or a wireless NIC WNIC or wireless adapter for communicating with a wireless network such as a WI FI network. This disclosure contemplates any suitable network and any suitable communication interface for it. As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may communicate with an ad hoc network a personal area network PAN a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN or one or more portions of the Internet or a combination of two or more of these. One or more portions of one or more of these networks may be wired or wireless. As an example computer system may communicate with a wireless PAN WPAN such as for example a BLUETOOTH WPAN a WI FI network a WI MAX network a cellular telephone network such as for example a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM network or other suitable wireless network or a combination of two or more of these. Computer system may include any suitable communication interface for any of these networks where appropriate. Communication interface may include one or more communication interfaces where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular communication interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable communication interface.

In particular embodiments bus includes hardware software or both coupling components of computer system to each other. As an example and not by way of limitation bus may include an Accelerated Graphics Port AGP or other graphics bus an Enhanced Industry Standard Architecture EISA bus a front side bus FSB a HYPERTRANSPORT HT interconnect an Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus an INFINIBAND interconnect a low pin count LPC bus a memory bus a Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus a PCI Express PCIe bus a serial advanced technology attachment SATA bus a Video Electronics Standards Association local VLB bus or another suitable bus or a combination of two or more of these. Bus may include one or more buses where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular bus this disclosure contemplates any suitable bus or interconnect.

Herein a computer readable non transitory storage medium or media may include one or more semiconductor based or other integrated circuits ICs such as for example field programmable gate arrays FPGAs or application specific ICs ASICs hard disk drives HDDs hybrid hard drives HHDs optical discs optical disc drives ODDs magneto optical discs magneto optical drives floppy diskettes floppy disk drives FDDs magnetic tapes solid state drives SSDs RAM drives SECURE DIGITAL cards or drives any other suitable computer readable non transitory storage media or any suitable combination of two or more of these where appropriate. A computer readable non transitory storage medium may be volatile non volatile or a combination of volatile and non volatile where appropriate.

Herein or is inclusive and not exclusive unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore herein A or B means A B or both unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Moreover and is both joint and several unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore herein A and B means A and B jointly or severally unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context.

The scope of this disclosure encompasses all changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications to the example embodiments described or illustrated herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. The scope of this disclosure is not limited to the example embodiments described or illustrated herein. Moreover although this disclosure describes and illustrates respective embodiments herein as including particular components elements feature functions operations or steps any of these embodiments may include any combination or permutation of any of the components elements features functions operations or steps described or illustrated anywhere herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. Furthermore reference in the appended claims to an apparatus or system or a component of an apparatus or system being adapted to arranged to capable of configured to enabled to operable to or operative to perform a particular function encompasses that apparatus system component whether or not it or that particular function is activated turned on or unlocked as long as that apparatus system or component is so adapted arranged capable configured enabled operable or operative.

