---

title: Methods and systems for testing interactions between mobile applications
abstract: A shared platform included in a device can be configured to execute instructions from a first application and a second application to operate the device. The shared platform can be configured to receive mode instructions from the first application indicative of operating in a test mode where the shared platform provides simulated responses to the first application. The shared platform can receive a request from the first application pertaining to an operation of the second application. The shared platform operating in the test mode can determine a response to the request from the first application based on a simulation of providing the request to the second application.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09262304&OS=09262304&RS=09262304
owner: Google Inc.
number: 09262304
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130918
---
The present disclosure claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 874 071 filed on Sep. 5 2013 the entirety of which is herein incorporated by reference.

Unless otherwise indicated herein the materials described in this section are not prior art to the claims in this application and are not admitted to be prior art by inclusion in this section.

An application in a mobile platform can be designed to solve a single activity or problem and delegate other activities to other applications when needed. For example an image editing application that edits an image may delegate capturing an image to a camera application and sharing the image to an email application. Thus a user of the mobile platform can receive an integrated experience and an application developer can focus on implementing the application s unique functionality.

Automating testing of interactions between two applications on the mobile platform can pose a problem due to the mobile platform preventing automated control of multiple applications by the same test procedure for security purposes. In one example a test for a first application can fail due to a second application updating its user interface even if the second application continues to satisfy the contract of integration with the first application. In another example a range of output from the second application may not be known by an author of the first application. Thus in this example the author of the first application may not be able to test specific cases e.g. invalid output boundary case etc. .

In one example a method is provided that comprises receiving mode instructions from a first application. The mode instructions can be received by a shared platform included in a device and configured to execute instructions to operate the device. The mode instructions can be executable by the shared platform to cause the shared platform to operate in a test mode or a runtime mode. The test mode can correspond to the shared platform providing simulated responses to the first application and the runtime mode can correspond to the shared platform executing operating instructions from the first application to operate the device. The method further comprises determining that the shared platform operates in the test mode based on the mode instructions. The method further comprises receiving a request from the first application by the shared platform. The request can correspond to an operation of a second application also configured to provide operating instructions executable by the shared platform to operate the device. The method further comprises determining by the shared platform operating in the test mode a response to the request from the first application based on a simulation of providing the request to the second application.

In another example a method for testing interaction between a first application and a second application that are each configured to provide operating instructions executable by a shared platform included in a first device to operate the first device is provided. The method comprises receiving mode instructions from a first application. The mode instructions can be received by a test platform included in a second device and configured to simulate operation of the shared platform. The mode instructions can correspond to a simulated interaction mode indicative of the test platform providing simulated responses to the first application based on requests received from the first application. The method further comprises receiving a request from the first application by the test platform. The request from the first application can be for information output by the second application due to an operation of the second application. The method further comprises determining a response by the test platform operating in the simulated interaction mode to the request from the first application based on a simulation of providing the request to the second application and a simulation of receiving the information output from the second application.

In another example a computer readable medium is provided. The computer readable medium can have instructions stored therein that when executed by a computing device cause the computing device to perform functions. The functions comprise receiving mode instructions from a first application. The mode instructions can be received by a shared platform included in the computing device and configured to execute instructions to operate the computing device. The mode instructions can be executable by the shared platform to cause the shared platform to operate in a test mode or a runtime mode. The test mode can correspond to the shared platform providing simulated responses to the first application and the runtime mode can correspond to the shared platform executing operating instructions from the first application to operate the computing device. The functions further comprise determining that the shared platform operates in the test mode based on the mode instructions. The functions further comprise receiving a request from the first application by the shared platform. The request can correspond to an operation of a second application also configured to provide operating instructions executable by the shared platform to operate the computing device. The functions further comprise determining by the shared platform operating in the test mode a response to the request from the first application based on a simulation of providing the request to the second application.

These as well as other aspects advantages and alternatives will become apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art by reading the following detailed description with reference where appropriate to the accompanying figures.

The following detailed description describes various features and functions of the disclosed systems and methods with reference to the accompanying figures. In the figures similar symbols identify similar components unless context dictates otherwise. The illustrative system device and method embodiments described herein are not meant to be limiting. It may be readily understood by those skilled in the art that certain aspects of the disclosed systems devices and methods can be arranged and combined in a wide variety of different configurations all of which are contemplated herein.

An electronic device can include a shared platform configured to execute instructions from one or more applications to operate the electronic device. Within examples described herein a method of testing interaction between two or more applications that provide operating instructions to a shared platform configured to operate a device is provided. The device can be for example a digital camera computing device wearable device mobile device cellular phone tablet etc. The method can include providing simulated responses to a first application of the two or more applications based on a simulation of providing requests from the first application to a second application of the two or more applications. In some examples the provision of the simulated responses can be performed by the shared platform. In other examples the provision of the simulated responses can be performed by a test platform included in a second device and configured to provide the simulated responses to the first application based on the first application being included in the second device.

Within a specific example a method is provided that includes receiving mode instructions from a first application. The mode instructions can be received by a shared platform included in a device and configured to execute instructions to operate the device. The mode instructions can be executable by the shared platform to cause the shared platform to operate in a test mode or a runtime mode. The test mode can correspond to the shared platform providing simulated responses to the first application and the runtime mode can correspond to the shared platform executing operating instructions from the first application to operate the device. The method can also include determining that the shared platform operate in the test mode based on the mode instructions. The method can also include receiving by the shared platform a request from the first application. The request can correspond to an operation of a second application also configured to provide operating instructions executable by the shared platform to operate the device. The method can also include determining by the shared platform operating in the test mode a response to the request from the first application based on a simulation of providing the request to the second application.

In some examples the shared platform can be configured to execute the operating instructions from the first application and the second application to operate the device. For example the first application and the second application can be included in the device and the shared platform can receive the operating instructions to operate the device.

In some examples the response can correspond to a simulated response from the second application. Thus in these examples the response can have a format substantially same as a format of the simulated response. In other examples the response can be indicative of the shared platform simulating that the second application received the request from the first application.

In some examples the method can also include the shared platform providing the response to the first application. In some examples the method can also include receiving a second request from the first application indicative of the first application requesting the response. For example the provision of the response to the first application by the shared platform can be based on the shared platform receiving the second request.

In some examples the device can include a dataset accessible by the shared platform. The dataset can include a plurality of test requests from the first application and a plurality of corresponding test responses from the second application. In these examples the method can include determining a given test request of the plurality of test requests included in the dataset that is substantially same as the request from the first application. Additionally the method can also include determining a given test response of the plurality of test responses that corresponds to the given test request. Additionally the method can also include providing the given test response as the response to the first application.

In some examples the device can include a test interface configured to receive information from the first application based on instructions from the shared platform. For example the method can include receiving by the test interface test information relating to simulated communication between the first application and the second application. In this example the method can also include determining based on the test information the plurality of test requests and plurality of test responses described in the examples above. Additionally the method can include the test interface determining the dataset accessible by the shared platform including the plurality of test requests and the plurality of test responses.

In some embodiments of the present disclosure that include a test platform that is included in a second device other than the device that includes the shared platform the functions described above performed by the shared platform can be performed by the test platform. For example the dataset described above can be included in the second device and the test platform can be configured to obtain the plurality of test requests and the plurality of test responses from the dataset to provide the simulated responses to the first application.

Some embodiments of the present disclosure therefore provide systems and methods for testing interaction between a first application and a second application without invoking the second application. For example simulated responses to requests from the first application that pertain to operations of the second application can be provided without actually sending the requests to the second application.

The device can include a computing device such as a smart phone digital assistant digital electronic device digital camera body mounted computing device e.g. eye glasses with computing capability or any other computing device configured to execute instructions by the shared platform to operate the device . Although not illustrated in the device can include additional components such as input buttons a display a touch screen display a camera an antenna a keyboard or any other physical component configured based on instructions from the shared platform executable by the processor to operate the device . The processor included in the device can comprise one or more processors configured to execute instructions from the shared platform to operate the device .

The memory can include one or more memories e.g. flash memory Random Access Memory RAM solid state drive disk drive etc. that include software components configured to provide instructions pertaining to operation of the device . For example the memory can include a data storage memory configured to store data pertaining to the device such as dataset . Additionally or alternatively the memory can include a program logic memory e.g. RAM that includes the first application the second application the test interface and or the shared platform . In some examples the memory can be one physical component configured to store data and or application components described above. Additionally the memory can include more software components than illustrated in . For example the memory can include a plurality of applications configured to provide operating instructions to the shared platform to operate the device .

The first application included in the memory can be configured to provide instructions to the shared platform pertaining to the operation of the device . For example the first application can provide operating instructions to the shared platform that are executable by the shared platform via processor to operate the device . In some examples the first application can provide mode instructions to the shared platform . For example the mode instructions can indicate that the shared platform operate in a runtime mode where the shared platform executes operating instructions from the first application to operate the device . In other examples the mode instructions can indicate that the shared platform operate in a test mode where the shared platform provides simulated responses to requests from the first application . The first application can be any application that pertains to the operation of the device . For example the first application can be an email application configured to cause the device to send an email. In some examples the first application can include a user interface configured to receive input from a user of the device pertaining to the operation of the first application and or the device .

The second application can be configured similarly to the first application . For example the second application can be a contact list application configured to receive and or provide contact information such as name email phone number etc.

In some examples operation of the second application can be based on instructions from the first application . For example where the first application is an image editing application and the second application is a camera application the first application can provide instructions to the shared platform indicative of the device capturing an image using the second application . Thus in this example the shared platform can cause the second application to launch and provide the first application with the image captured by the second application .

In another example the second application can perform an operation pertaining to the device based on instructions from the first application . For example the first application can be a contact list application and the second application can be a phone application. In this example the first application can provide instructions to the shared platform indicative of calling a given contact included in the contact list application. Thus in this example the shared platform can cause the second application to launch and provide instructions to the shared platform that are executable by the processor to cause the device to call the given contact.

The test interface can include a software interface configured to receive instructions and or information from the first application pertaining to the dataset . In some examples the test interface can be an application programming interface API configured to receive information from the first application for storage to and or retrieval from the dataset . In other examples the test interface can include an independent application with a user interface. In that case the test interface can be an application similar to the first application and the second application that is configured to provide operating instructions to the shared platform . For example the test interface can provide operating instructions to the shared platform indicative of the device displaying the contents of the dataset .

In some examples the test interface can perform functions to determine information and structure thereof included in the dataset based on instructions and or information from the first application . For example the test interface can be configured to receive test information relating to simulated communication e.g. interaction between the first application and the second application . Thus the test interface can be configured to determine based on the test information a plurality of test requests from the first application and a plurality of test responses that indicate a simulation of the second application receiving the plurality of test requests. For example test requests of the plurality of test requests can correspond to test responses of the plurality of test responses. In this example the test interface can be configured to determine the dataset to include the plurality of test requests and the corresponding plurality of test responses.

The dataset is accessible by the test interface and the shared platform and includes the plurality of test requests and the plurality of test responses described above in the description of the test interface . In some examples the dataset can include a database with information pertaining to test cases of the first application . For example the database can include the plurality of test requests from the first application and the corresponding plurality of test responses pertaining to the operation of the second application . In some examples the dataset can include one or more databases pertaining to other applications configured to provide operating instructions executable by the shared platform . For example the dataset can include a first database for test information pertaining to testing the first application and a second database for test information pertaining to testing the second application . In some examples the dataset can be included in the same physical memory as the first application . In other examples the dataset can be included in another physical memory. Although illustrated that dataset is included in the memory in some examples the dataset can be included in a second device not shown in and the test interface can be configured to store and or retrieve information from the dataset by providing instructions to the shared platform to cause the device to communicate with the second device and perform these functions. Additionally or alternatively in some examples other components included in the memory such as the first application and the second application can also be included in a remote memory accessible by the device .

Below is an example series of instructions from the first application to the test interface configured to cause the determining of the dataset .

In this example instruction 1 can cause the test interface to create a test request directed to the Contact List application comprising a request for a contact named John to be associated with a response including a phone number 1234567890 . Similarly instructions 2 and 3 indicate contact information for Mary and Janet . Thus the test interface can be configured to determine the dataset to include the plurality of test requests e.g. John Mary Janet from the first application to the second application e.g. Contact List application and the corresponding plurality of test responses e.g. 1234567890 0119876543210 1234 . In this example the first application can test a variety of responses from the second application to assert the behavior of the first application without actually invoking the second application . For example the test response 1234567890 associated with the test request John can correspond to a valid telephone number. Additionally the test response 0119876543210 associated with the test request Mary can correspond to an international phone number e.g. boundary test case edge case etc. . Additionally the test response 1234 associated with the test request Janet can correspond to an invalid telephone number. Thus in this example the first application can test the variety of responses that are possible from the second application e.g. Contact List application without actually invoking the second application .

It is noted that the above example series of instructions is for explanatory purposes only and is not meant to limit the format content and or type of instructions provided by the first application to the test interface . For example the first application can provide instructions indicative of creating and or deleting a database included in the dataset . In another example the first application can provide instructions indicative of removing one or more of the test cases included in the dataset . Additionally or alternatively to the first application providing the instructions directly to the test interface the instructions described above can be provided by the shared platform to the test interface based on instructions from the first application to the shared platform .

The shared platform can be configured to execute instructions via the processor to operate the device . In some examples the shared platform can be a native platform e.g. platforms that operate smartphones tablets etc. accessible by the other software components included in the memory and can be configured to execute instructions pertaining to the operation of the device . For example the device can include a camera and the shared platform can operate the camera based on instructions from the first application and or the second application . Additionally or alternatively in some examples the shared platform can be an operating system of the device .

The shared platform can optionally include multiple layers each corresponding to a mode of behavior of the shared platform . In some examples the shared platform can include a runtime layer . The runtime layer can correspond to the shared platform operating in a runtime mode. For example the shared platform operating in the runtime mode can operate the device in accordance with instructions included in the runtime layer . Additionally the instructions included in the runtime layer can include execution instructions adaptable based on instructions from the first application and or the second application . In some examples the shared platform can include a test layer . The test layer can include instructions executable by the shared platform to simulate the behavior of the runtime layer . For example where the shared platform is running in a test mode the test layer can include instructions to provide simulated responses to requests from the first application .

In some examples the shared platform can be configured to receive mode instructions from the first application and or the second application indicative of the shared platform operating in a runtime mode or a test mode. The runtime mode can correspond to the shared platform executing operating instructions from the first application to operate the device . For example the shared platform can be configured to execute the operating instructions in accordance with the runtime layer . The test mode can correspond to the shared platform providing simulated responses to the first application . For example the shared platform can be configured to provide simulated responses in accordance with the test layer .

In some examples a request can be received from the first application by the shared platform . In some examples the request can pertain to an operation of the second application . In some examples where the shared platform is operating in the test mode the shared platform can be configured to determine a response to the request based on a simulation of providing the request to the second application . In examples where the first application is sending a request pertaining to the second application and based on the shared platform operating in the test mode the shared platform can provide a simulated response to the first application without invoking the second application . In one example the response to the first application can have a format substantially same as a format of the simulated response from the second application . For example the first application can be a navigation application and the second application can be a map application. Thus in this example the first application can request a destination address from the second application and the shared platform operating in the test mode can provide a simulated destination address to the first application without invoking the second application . In another example the response can correspond to a simulation of the second application receiving the request from the first application . For example the first application can be an image settings application and the request can indicate adjusting brightness of an image in a photo gallery application second application . In this example the shared platform operating in the test mode can determine a response indicative of the photo gallery application second application receiving the request from image settings application first application .

In some examples the shared platform operating in the test mode can be configured to provide the determined response to the first application . In some examples the shared application operating in the test mode can be configured to receive a second request from the first application indicative of the first application requesting the response. In that case the shared application operating in the test mode can be configured to provide the response to the first application based on receiving the second request.

In some examples the shared platform operating in the test mode can be configured to determine the response based on test responses included in the dataset . For example the shared platform can be configured to determine a given test request of the plurality of test requests included in the dataset that is substantially same as the request from the first application. In this example the shared platform can be configured to determine a given test response of the plurality of test responses included in the dataset that corresponds to the given test request. Further in this example the shared platform can be configured to provide the given test response as the response.

Below is an example series of requests from the first application received by the shared platform pertaining to an operation of the second application and a third application not shown in . In this example the first application can be a contact information application e.g. application that displays and or uses contact details the second application can be a contact list application e.g. application that provides a list of contacts for selection and the third application not shown in can be a phone dialing application e.g. application that causes the device to dial a phone number .

In this example request 1 is a first request from the first application that corresponds to mode instructions that cause the shared platform to operate in the test mode. Request 2 from the first application to the shared platform corresponds to the shared platform receiving a selection from the second application . In this example since the shared platform is operating in the test mode the shared platform is instructed to simulate a phone number of the contact John rather than actually invoking the second application . For example the shared platform operating in the test mode can retrieve the phone number e.g. 1234567890 from the dataset in accordance with the description above. Request 3 corresponds to a third request from the first application to the shared platform to provide the response the phone number of John . Additionally request 3 includes asserting that the phone number returned from the shared platform matches an expected phone number e.g. 1234567890 . In some examples request 3 can also include logging the result of the comparison between the returned response from the shared platform and the expected response 1234567890 in a log file. Request 4 includes a fourth request from the first application to the shared platform operating in the test mode indicative of simulating that the third application e.g. the phone dialing application not shown in dial the phone number retrieved in request 2. Request 5 includes a fifth request from the first application to the shared platform operating in the test mode indicative of requesting the response from the shared platform that simulates that the third application received the call request from the first application .

In some examples requests from the first application can include additional steps not shown in the above series of requests and implemented in separate functions or procedures of the first application . For example functions PickContact and Dial described respectively in requests 2 and 4 can include calls to respective functions or procedures of the first application . In some examples the respective functions or procedures can provide the actual request to the shared platform .

It is noted that the above example series of requests is for explanatory purposes only and is not meant to limit the format content and or type of requests provided by the first application to the shared platform . For example the first application can provide instructions indicative of retrieving the test responses using a specific database included in the dataset .

It is noted that the block diagram shown in is described in connection with functional modules for convenience in description. For example while the functional block in shown as the dataset can be included in the memory the dataset does not necessarily need to be implemented as being physically present on the memory but can be present in another memory included in the device or included in a second device. In some examples the embodiments of the device can be arranged with one or more of the functional modules subsystems implemented in a single chip integrated circuit and or physical component.

In addition for the method and other processes and methods disclosed herein the flowchart shows functionality and operation of one possible implementation of present embodiments. In this regard each block may represent a module a segment a portion of a manufacturing or operation process or a portion of program code which includes one or more instructions executable by a processor for implementing specific logical functions or steps in the process. The program code may be stored on any type of computer readable medium for example such as a storage device including a disk or hard drive. The computer readable medium may include non transitory computer readable medium for example such as computer readable media that stores data for short periods of time like register memory processor cache and Random Access Memory RAM . The computer readable medium may also include non transitory media such as secondary or persistent long term storage like read only memory ROM optical or magnetic disks compact disc read only memory CD ROM for example. The computer readable media may also be any other volatile or non volatile storage systems. The computer readable medium may be considered a computer readable storage medium for example or a tangible storage device.

In addition for the method and other processes and methods disclosed herein each block in may represent circuitry that is wired to perform the specific logical functions in the process.

At block the method includes receiving by a shared platform included in a device and configured to execute instructions to operate the device mode instructions from a first application wherein the mode instructions are executable by the shared platform to cause the shared platform to operate in a test mode or a runtime mode wherein the test mode corresponds to the shared platform providing simulated responses to the first application and the runtime mode corresponds to the shared platform executing operating instructions from the first application to operate the device.

At block the method includes determining based on the mode instructions that the shared platform operate in the test mode.

At block the method includes receiving by the shared platform a request from the first application wherein the request corresponds to an operation of a second application also configured to provide operating instructions executable by the shared platform to operate the device.

At block the method includes determining by the shared platform operating in the test mode a response to the request from the first application based on a simulation of providing the request to the second application.

For example the shared platform can be a mobile platform configured to operate a device e.g. tablet smartphone personal digital assistant etc. . The shared platform can receive mode instructions from a first application block indicative of operating in a test mode block . The shared platform can receive a request block from the first application corresponding to an operation of a second application. For example the first application can be messaging application requesting an email address from the second application that is a contact list application. Thus the shared platform operating in the test mode block can determine a response to the request without invoking the second application e.g. provide a canned response such as an email address .

In addition for the method and other processes and methods disclosed herein the flowchart shows functionality and operation of one possible implementation of present embodiments. In this regard each block may represent a module a segment a portion of a manufacturing or operation process or a portion of program code which includes one or more instructions executable by a processor for implementing specific logical functions or steps in the process. The program code may be stored on any type of computer readable medium for example such as a storage device including a disk or hard drive. The computer readable medium may include non transitory computer readable medium for example such as computer readable media that stores data for short periods of time like register memory processor cache and Random Access Memory RAM . The computer readable medium may also include non transitory media such as secondary or persistent long term storage like read only memory ROM optical or magnetic disks compact disc read only memory CD ROM for example. The computer readable media may also be any other volatile or non volatile storage systems. The computer readable medium may be considered a computer readable storage medium for example or a tangible storage device.

In addition for the method and other processes and methods disclosed herein each block in may represent circuitry that is wired to perform the specific logical functions in the process.

At block the method includes receiving by a shared platform included in a device and configured to execute instructions to operate the device mode instructions from a first application wherein the mode instructions are executable by the shared platform to cause the shared platform to operate in a test mode indicative of the shared platform providing simulated responses to the first application.

At block the method includes receiving by the shared platform a request from the first application wherein the request corresponds to an operation of a second application wherein the first application and the second application are configured to provide operating instructions executable by the shared platform to operate the device.

At block the method includes determining based on a dataset a given test request of a plurality of test requests substantially same as the request from the first application wherein the dataset is included in the device and includes the plurality of test requests and a corresponding plurality of test responses.

At block the method includes determining a given test response of the plurality of test responses that corresponds to the given test request.

At block the method includes providing to the first application the given test response as a response to the request from the first application.

For example the shared platform can be a platform configured to operate a device e.g. computing device wearable device etc. . The shared platform can receive mode instructions from a first application block indicative of operating in a test mode. The shared platform can receive a request block from the first application corresponding to an operation of a second application. For example the first application can be a navigation application requesting an address of a location e.g. city hall etc. from the second application that is a map application. For example the shared platform can identify a location in the dataset substantially same as the location in the request block from the first application e.g. city hall . The shared platform operating in the test mode can then be configured to retrieve a corresponding test response such as a simulated address e.g. city hall s address as a response to the request using a dataset included in the device block without invoking the second application. Thus the shared platform operating in the test mode block can provide the test response as the response to the request from the first application.

The first device can be similar to the device described in the system of . For example the first device can include a processor configured to execute instructions from the shared platform included in the memory to operate the first device . The shared platform can receive the operating instructions executable by the processor from the first application and the second application included in the memory . The operation function and structure of the processor memory first application second application and the shared platform can be similar respectively to the processor memory first application second application and the shared platform described in the system illustrated in .

The system also includes a second device that includes a processor and a memory . The memory can include instructions executable by the processor to operate the second device . The instructions can include software components such as a first application a test interface a dataset and the test platform .

The second device can be a computing device such as a personal computer server computer etc. configured to operate based on instructions executable by the test platform to simulate operation of the first device . For example the first device can be a mobile device and the second device can be a test device configured to simulate the operation of the mobile device. In addition the test platform can be configured to simulate operation of the shared platform . For example the test platform can be an emulator configured to display output and receive input similar to that of the shared platform included in the first device . Thus the system provides a mechanism for testing the first application without the presence of the second application or the first device in contrast with the system described in . For example the first application included in the second device can be a copy of the first application included in the first device or can be a test version e.g. test suite of the first application . Thus the system provides a method for testing operation of the first device including the interaction between the first application and the second application without the presence of the first device the shared platform and or the second application .

The second device includes a processor configured to execute instructions from the test platform to operate the second device that simulates the behavior of the first device .

The physical aspects of the memory can be similar to the memory described in . For example the memory can include one or more memories including the first application the test interface the dataset and or the test platform .

The first application can provide instructions executable by the test platform to simulate the behavior of the first device . For example the first application can be a copy of the first application included in the first device .

The structure function and operation of the test interface and the dataset is similar to the test interface and the dataset included in the description of . For example the first application can provide requests to the test platform that cause the test platform to retrieve test responses from the dataset that were created using the test interface .

The test platform can be configured to simulate the behavior of the shared platform included in the first device . For example the test platform can receive a request from the first application pertaining to the operation of a second application not shown and or included in the second device . Thus the test platform can provide a simulated response to the first application based on a simulation of providing the request to the second application.

In some examples the test platform can determine the simulated response to the request based on a simulation of the operation of the second application to simulate information output from the second application. For example where the second application is not included in the second device the test platform can simulate the output of the second application e.g. by retrieving data from the dataset . In other examples the test platform can provide the simulated response indicative of the second application receiving the request from the first application .

In some examples the test platform can be configured to receive mode instructions from the first application indicative of the test platform operating in a simulated interaction mode. The simulated interaction mode can correspond to the test platform providing simulated responses to requests from the first application pertaining to the operation of the second application. The test platform for example can receive a request form the first application pertaining to the operation of the second application. In this example the test platform operating in the simulated interaction mode can determine a response to the request based on a simulation of providing the request to the second application. For example the first application can be a messaging application requesting an email address from the second application that is a contact list application. In this example the test platform operating in the simulated interaction mode can determine a response to the request such as an email address stored in the dataset . Thus in this example the response can correspond to a simulated response from the second application without invoking the second application. In another example the response can be indicative of the test platform providing the request to the second application. For example the second application can be a dialing application and the first application can provide a request to dial a phone number. In this example the test platform can provide a response indicative of the second application receiving the request to dial the phone number.

Similarly to the shared platform described in the test platform can be configured to perform additional functions such as providing the response to the first application receiving a second request indicative of the first application requesting the response and providing the response based on receiving the second request and determining the response based on a plurality of test requests and a corresponding plurality of test responses included in the dataset .

Thus the test platform in the second device provides a mechanism to perform the test functionality of the shared platform included in the first device on the second device without the presence of the second application or the first device .

In addition for the method and other processes and methods disclosed herein the flowchart shows functionality and operation of one possible implementation of present embodiments. In this regard each block may represent a module a segment a portion of a manufacturing or operation process or a portion of program code which includes one or more instructions executable by a processor for implementing specific logical functions or steps in the process. The program code may be stored on any type of computer readable medium for example such as a storage device including a disk or hard drive. The computer readable medium may include non transitory computer readable medium for example such as computer readable media that stores data for short periods of time like register memory processor cache and Random Access Memory RAM . The computer readable medium may also include non transitory media such as secondary or persistent long term storage like read only memory ROM optical or magnetic disks compact disc read only memory CD ROM for example. The computer readable media may also be any other volatile or non volatile storage systems. The computer readable medium may be considered a computer readable storage medium for example or a tangible storage device.

In addition for the method and other processes and methods disclosed herein each block in may represent circuitry that is wired to perform the specific logical functions in the process.

At block the method includes receiving by a test platform mode instructions from a first application wherein the mode instructions correspond to a simulated interaction mode indicative of the test platform providing simulated responses to the first application based on requests received from the first application wherein the first application and a second application are each configured to provide operating instructions executable by a shared platform included in a first device to operate the first device wherein the test platform is included in a second device and configured to simulate operation of the shared platform.

At block the method includes receiving by the test platform a request from the first application wherein the request from the first application is for information output by the second application due to an operation of the second application.

At block the method includes determining by the test platform operating in the simulated interaction mode a response to the request from the first application based on a simulation of providing the request to the second application and a simulation of receiving the information output from the second application.

For example the test platform can be included in the second device e.g. personal computer etc. and configured to simulate the behavior of the shared platform that is included in the first device. The test platform can receive mode instructions from a first application bock indicative of operating in the simulated interaction mode. The test platform can receive a request block from the first application for information output by a second application due to an operation of the second application. For example the first application can be a photo editing application requesting an image to be captured by the second application that is a camera application. Thus the test platform operating in the simulated interaction mode block can determine a response to the request without invoking the second application e.g. determine a canned response such as an image of a person .

In addition for the method and other processes and methods disclosed herein the flowchart shows functionality and operation of one possible implementation of present embodiments. In this regard each block may represent a module a segment a portion of a manufacturing or operation process or a portion of program code which includes one or more instructions executable by a processor for implementing specific logical functions or steps in the process. The program code may be stored on any type of computer readable medium for example such as a storage device including a disk or hard drive. The computer readable medium may include non transitory computer readable medium for example such as computer readable media that stores data for short periods of time like register memory processor cache and Random Access Memory RAM . The computer readable medium may also include non transitory media such as secondary or persistent long term storage like read only memory ROM optical or magnetic disks compact disc read only memory CD ROM for example. The computer readable media may also be any other volatile or non volatile storage systems. The computer readable medium may be considered a computer readable storage medium for example or a tangible storage device.

In addition for the method and other processes and methods disclosed herein each block in may represent circuitry that is wired to perform the specific logical functions in the process.

At block the method includes receiving by a test platform mode instructions from a first application wherein the mode instructions correspond to a simulated interaction mode indicative of the test platform providing simulated responses to the first application based on requests received from the first application wherein the first application and a second application are configured to provide operating instructions executable by a shared platform included in a first device to operate the first device wherein the test platform is included in a second device and configured to simulate operation of the shared platform.

At block the method includes receiving by the test platform a request from the first application wherein the request from the first application is for information output by the second application due to an operation of the second application.

At block the method includes determining by the test platform operating in the simulated interaction mode a response to the request from the first application based on a simulation of providing the request to the second application and a simulation of receiving the information output from the second application.

At block the method includes receiving by the test platform a second request from the first application indicative of the first application requesting the response.

At block the method includes providing to the first application the response based on the test platform receiving the second request.

For example the test platform can be included in the second device e.g. personal computer etc. and configured to simulate the behavior of the shared platform that is included in the first device e.g. tablet smartphone etc. . The test platform can receive mode instructions from a first application block indicative of operating in the simulated interaction mode. The test platform can receive a request block from the first application for information output by a second application due to an operation of the second application. For example the first application can be text editing application requesting a document to be saved by the second application that is a file manager application. Thus the test platform operating in the simulated interaction mode block can determine a response to the request without invoking the second application e.g. determine a response indicative of the file manager receiving the document and path and providing information indicative of successfully saving the document . The test platform can then receive a second request block from the first application indicative of the first application requesting the response e.g. verification that the second application received and or saved the document . Thus the test platform can provide the response to the first application based on receiving the second request block .

As noted above in some embodiments the disclosed techniques e.g. methods and can be implemented by computer program instructions encoded on a computer readable storage media in a machine readable format or on other media or articles of manufacture e.g. the instructions stored on the memory of the device of the system or the instructions stored on the memory of the device of the system . is a schematic illustrating a conceptual partial view of an example computer program product that includes a computer program for executing a computer process on a computing device arranged according to at least some embodiments disclosed herein.

In one embodiment the example computer program product is provided using a signal bearing medium . The signal bearing medium may include one or more programming instructions that when executed by one or more processors may provide functionality or portions of the functionality described above with respect to . In some examples the signal bearing medium can be a computer readable medium such as but not limited to a hard disk drive a Compact Disc CD a Digital Video Disk DVD a digital tape memory etc. In some implementations the signal bearing medium can be a computer recordable medium such as but not limited to memory read write R W CDs R W DVDs etc. In some implementations the signal bearing medium can be a communication medium e.g. a fiber optic cable a waveguide a wired communications link a wireless communication link etc. . Thus for example the signal bearing medium can be conveyed by a wireless form of the communications medium .

The one or more programming instructions can be for example computer executable and or logic implemented instructions. In some examples a computing device such as the processor equipped devices and of is configured to provide various operations functions or actions in response to the programming instructions conveyed to the computing device by one or more of the computer readable medium the computer recordable medium and or the communications medium . In other examples the computing device can be an external device such as a server or personal computer in communication with a device such as device or device .

The computer readable medium can also be distributed among multiple data storage elements which could be remotely located from each other. The computing device that executes some or all of the stored instructions could be an external computer or a mobile computing platform such as a smartphone tablet device personal computer wearable device etc. Alternatively the computing device that executes some or all of the stored instructions could be remotely located computer system such as a server. For example the computer program product can implement the functionalities discussed in the description of .

Within examples operation methods that are described for the testing systems can be applied to other testing systems that pertain to an operation of a device by a shared platform receiving instructions from two or more interacting applications. For example medical devices special purpose computers and computer automated vehicles can perform the functions described herein to test interactions between applications included in these devices. Thus example methods herein provide testing of interactions between a first application and a second application based on requests from the first application pertaining to an operation of the second application and without invoking the second application.

It should be understood that arrangements described herein are for purposes of example only. As such those skilled in the art will appreciate that other arrangements and other elements e.g. machines interfaces functions orders and groupings of functions etc. can be used instead and some elements may be omitted altogether according to the desired results. Further many of the elements that are described are functional entities that may be implemented as discrete or distributed components or in conjunction with other components in any suitable combination and location or other structural elements described as independent structures may be combined.

While various aspects and embodiments have been disclosed herein other aspects and embodiments will be apparent to those skilled in the art. The various aspects and embodiments disclosed herein are for purposes of illustration and are not intended to be limiting with the true scope being indicated by the following claims along with the full scope of equivalents to which such claims are entitled. It is also to be understood that the terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting.

