---

title: Dynamically modifying scanning methods and/or configurations
abstract: Adapting scanning of frequency channels of different or varying widths to collect wideband spectrum data is disclosed. Scanning methods and/or configurations are modified based upon the type and signal strength of the interferers present or expected in the spectrum. The system includes: selecting a portion for scanning, wherein the portion includes contiguous and non-contiguous segments, partitioning the selected portion into a first plurality of channels, where at least two of the plurality of channels have different widths, each of the first plurality of channels including contiguous or non-contiguous segments; during a first scan of the selected portion, scanning the selected portion of the radio frequency spectrum at least by scanning a first channel with a first width and scanning a second channel with a second width that is different than the first width; and based on the first scan, collecting data representing the selected portion of the radio frequency spectrum.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09456364&OS=09456364&RS=09456364
owner: Aruba Networks, Inc.
number: 09456364
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131204
---
The present disclosure relates to wireless digital networks. In particular the present disclosure relates to dynamically modifying scanning methods and or configurations or adaptive scanning of frequency channels of variable widths to capture wideband spectrum data in order to detect interferers on wireless digital networks.

Wireless digital networks provide users secure and cost effective access to resources. Such wireless digital networks typically have a plurality of access points AP located throughout a designated area by which the users can access the resources they desire. Wi Fi networks operating in accordance with IEEE 802.11 standards are examples of such networks. The frequencies used by these networks are shared. They are shared not only among the wireless digital networks themselves but also with other non network devices. These shared frequencies face intermittent and continuous interference received from other non network devices including radio frequency devices such as microwave ovens wireless video streaming devices cordless telephones and the like as well as other adjacent wireless networking devices. Unfortunately the effects of these types of interfering devices can vary. As an example simply replacing or adding a microwave oven in a particular area where a particular wireless digital network is operating can dramatically alter the interference levels present within that particular wireless digital network.

To identify the sources of interference that obstruct operation of a wireless digital network various types of test equipment and functionalities are used for example spectrum analyzers. Although sophisticated spectrum analyzers exist which include receivers that may be calibrated to display and measure signals over a wide range of frequencies and amplitudes such sophisticated devices are costly and often not used for continuous monitoring and management of wireless digital networks. Wireless digital networks contain access points AP and wireless client devices both examples of narrowband network radio devices with scanning functionality.

Each radio device e.g. access point periodically scans the frequency spectrum to detect and identify potential interference. The frequency spectrum is a frequency range that is divided into multiple channels. The time required to scan the entire frequency spectrum is proportional to the number of channels that are scanned and the type of information that needs to be collected. Hence considerable time can lapse before a radio device access point can scan the same channel again. Frequent scanning of channels is critical to yield updated channel information which is used to detect and identify wireless interference.

As a related consideration many network devices for example access points APs support variable frequency channel widths including for example 20 MHz 40 MHz and 80 MHz channels. They may also support 160 MHz or other channel widths. Existing systems and methods for scanning frequency spectrums are limited to scanning of fixed width frequency channels or a predetermined sequence of channels

A typical spectrum analyzer configured to use these fixed width or narrowband radio frequencies may need to collect information such as wireless frames in compliance with IEEE 802.11 standards spectral analysis FFT Fast Fourier Transform plots noise floor and channel utilization Tx and Rx on various channels. Spectrum analysis also requires that information on a wideband frequency spectrum for example the entire 2.4 GHz or 5 GHz band be collected at fixed time intervals for example ranging anywhere from 500 milliseconds to 2 seconds . These fixed time intervals dictate the amount of time to be spent in search of interference activity or dwell time on each channel. It is virtually impossible to scan all possible channels and channel widths within the fixed time intervals or dwell times that are typically allocated for scanning of channels.

Moreover other information such as noise floor and channel utilization may depend on the width of the selected channel depending on the activities on parts of the channel and due to implementation constraints of the network devices themselves.

Therefore it is desirable to have enhanced ways for scanning frequency spectrums effectively and efficiently to capture wideband spectrum data to accurately detect and identify interference in wireless digital networks. It is also desirable to have enhanced ways to report channel status such as noise floor Wi Fi and non Wi Fi channel utilization ACI number and types of Wi Fi and non Wi Fi devices.

In the following description several specific details are presented to provide a thorough understanding. Although the context of the disclosure is directed to enhanced ways of dynamically modifying scanning methods and or configurations or obtaining wideband spectrum data by variable and adaptive scanning of channels of different widths one skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that the concepts and techniques disclosed here can be practiced without one or more of the specific details or in combination with other components etc. In other instances well known implementations or operations are not shown or described in detail to avoid obscuring aspects of various examples disclosed herein. It should be understood that this disclosure covers all modifications equivalents and alternatives falling within the spirit and scope of the present disclosure.

Some embodiments of the present disclosure relate to enhanced scanning functionality in a narrowband network device or system. It should be recognized that the scanning functionality described in this disclosure can be implemented in any radio including an access point of a wireless digital network client devices mesh nodes etc. This functionality facilitates variable and adaptive scanning of a spectrum of frequency channels of varying or different widths. This functionality includes dynamically modifying scanning methods and or configurations. In particular the present disclosure relates to scanning the entire wide spectrum of frequency channels to capture or collect wideband spectrum data for analysis in identifying interference in wireless digital networks. Wideband spectrum data may be captured by a narrowband network device to form a spectrum covering a much wider frequency band. Sampling of spectrum data for example Fast Fourier Transform FFT data captured from a narrowband receiver such as an IEEE 802.11 Wi Fi receiver are combined to generate representative real time FFT average FFT and FFT duty cycle data of a wideband spectrum.

In some embodiments spectrum data is captured by a narrowband network device operating on a particular channel with a given frequency and channel width. Spectrum data samples are collected from multiple channel scans that may overlap or not and these are combined to form a representative spectrum band for analysis.

The system and methods according to some embodiments of this disclosure support spectrum analysis functions using data captured from a narrowband network device such as an IEEE 802.11 device. The network device may or may not be set up to provide services to IEEE 802.11 clients while acting as a spectrum analyzer. Suitable network devices include the radios in network access points and in wireless client devices where such data capture is supported by the software and or hardware operating the radio.

An IEEE 802.11 radio is capable of receiving signals that fall within 5 to 160 MHz wide channels since IEEE 802.11 channels vary from 5 MHz or 160 MHz wide. Future IEEE 802.11 radios may be able to operate in wider channels. The width of the channel in an 802.11 radio receiver is restricted to the channel widths defined by the IEEE.

There may also be other constraints such as a need to receive 802.11 frames provide intrusion detection systems IDS and support interference classification that may limit the channel widths and dwell times that can be used by an 802.11 radio device.

It should be recognized that the methods described here apply to any narrowband receiver for example one implementing IEEE 802.11 IEEE 802.16 or IEEE 802.15 standards or similar protocols that can be used to construct either a stand alone spectrum analyzer or a spectrum analyzer that provides spectrum analysis functions along with any combination of client connectivity services e.g. an access point AP Interference Classification or IDS intrusion detection system .

For spectrum analysis the spectrum of interest at any instant may be as wide as 200 MHz or more. The spectrum may be contiguous or non contiguous. To support such wideband spectrum visibility using a narrowband network device the spectrum analyzer radio scans multiple channels in real time and combines the time and frequency domain information gathered from the multiple channels scanned to form a comprehensive view of the wideband spectrum data. The spectrum analysis function selects the best sampling of FFT data among the hundreds or thousands of data samples that may be collected per second. The sampling is taken to accurately represent the view of the spectrum. The entire spectrum may be displayed on a device such as a computer display.

A Fourier transform sample such as an FFT data sample from a narrowband network device may be represented as a set of amplitude values where each amplitude value corresponds to a frequency bin. The number of frequency bins in an FFT data sample is determined by the channel width and the FFT size. For example an FFT on a 20 MHz channel may produce FFT data samples with 64 frequency bins where each bin represents 312.5 KHz i.e. 20 MHz 64 . Other parameters associated with FFT include the starting frequency the sampling time and the sampling frequency or interval. The sampling time is the amount of time spent taking one FFT data sample and the sampling frequency is the number of samples per second.

For each scan operation the dwell time which is the amount of time designated for looking for activity on each channel may be adjusted. In some instances the dwell time on each channel may be fixed. In some instances the dwell time may vary based on certain conditions or criteria. A fixed dwell time is obtained by dividing the total display interval e.g. one second by a multiple of the number of channels to be scanned. For example in the event a display interval is one second and the number of channels to be scanned is five the default dwell time would be computed to be 200 milliseconds 1000 5 per channel. In some instances the default dwell time may also be designated as 100 milliseconds 1000 2 5 when the spectrum analyzer scans each channel twice within the time interval of one second. Fixed dwell times may not be appropriate under all circumstances. One such scenario is when the spectrum analyzer also supports IDS intrusion detection system . A network device supporting IDS intrusion detection system and spectrum analysis must be able to adaptively determine the dwell time on each channel so that IDS intrusion detection system functions can be effectively supported without affecting the ability to receive representative FFT information from all channels for an accurate FFT display. In some embodiments the interferer profile of an interfering device is used to determine the amount of time spent on each channel dwell time the sequence of scanning and the number of times to visit a channel per display interval.

In some embodiments when interferers or rogue devices are detected on a specific 802.11 channel those channels are scanned with greater frequency. Dwell times are adjusted to capture sufficient 802.11 frames and or FFT data samples to perform the necessary IDS and interference detection functions.

The device or system and methods of the present disclosure modify the scanning methods used based upon determining the type and strength of the interfering signals that are either detected or expected to be present in the spectrum. The wideband spectrum data that is collected may be used for myriad purposes including but not limited to classification e.g. interferers spectrum displays alerts and RF management based on metrics such as noise interferer duty cycle and channel utilization etc.

Specifically the device system and methods in accordance with some embodiments of the present technology perform adaptive scanning operations on portions or segments of a radio frequency spectrum of channels. In some embodiments the segments are selected when channels in the radio frequency spectrum have different or varying widths. For example many network devices support variable channel widths including for example 20 MHz 40 MHz 80 MHz and 160 MHz channels. Future devices may support wider or other channel widths.

In some embodiments spectrum analyzers or functions require information such as 802.11 frames FFTs noise floor and channel utilization Tx and Rx collected from various frequency channels. In some embodiments spectrum analysis applications also require that the information on the wideband channels for example the entire 2.4 GHz or 5 GHz band must be collected at small fixed time intervals for example ranging from 500 milliseconds to 2 seconds. Because it is virtually impossible to scan all possible channels and channel widths in the radio frequency spectrum within the fixed time intervals that are allocated for these operations adaptive scanning by modifying scanning algorithms is advantageous.

Adaptive scanning functionality addresses implementation constraints of wireless devices. Also it provides flexible alternatives as there are many ways to scan a frequency channel with a width greater than 20 MHz e.g. by designating different primary channels .

The device system and methods of the present disclosure scan the entire frequency bandwidth to capture wideband spectrum data by adaptively modifying underlying algorithms for scan operations. The modifications depend on the type and strength of the interfering signals that are either present or expected or the level of Wi Fi activity within a particular wireless area. The network devices are configured to scan radio frequency channels in segments. In some implementations a first segment portion or partition may include frequency channels with a width that is different than frequency channels in a second segment portion or partition. The system and methods are configured to scan each of the segments in the radio frequency spectrum within the particular time period allocated. The data samples collected from each scan are combined to reflect the wideband data. This combined data more accurately reflects the extent of interfering signals either present or expected. Some channels are known or likely to have more interferers and or 802.11 network devices. As one example microwave ovens operate in a specific frequency range in the 2.4 GHz band. As another example 5 GHz cordless telephones operate in a specific portion of the UNII band. The adaptive scanning algorithms assign a higher weight to those channels to provide scanning priority and increased dwell times as determined.

When a certain type of interferer e.g. a frequency hopper such as a 2.4 GHz frequency hopping telephone is partially detected in a channel the scanning algorithm adaptively changes the dwell time on the channel. By this it receives sufficient samples on that channel to determine the type and subtype of the interferer e.g. Bluetooth Xbox cordless telephone video transmitter or audio transmitter .

The adaptive scanning algorithms select among multiple channel widths that may be supported by a particular network device including 20 MHz and 40 MHz channels. One advantage of scanning the 20 MHz channels is that the identity of all 802.11 network devices including those operating in 20 MHz and 40 MHz channels can be easily and reliably decoded based on beacon and other management frame transmissions. If only 40 MHz channels are scanned 20 MHz 802.11 devices operating on the extended channel i.e. one half of the 40 MHz channel or 40 MHz 802.11 devices operating with the different combinations of primary and extension channels may not be reliably detected. One advantage of scanning 40 MHz or 80 MHz channels is that the frames transmitted on the entire 40 MHz or 80 MHz channel width can be reliably detected and therefore their duty cycle can be properly accounted for.

Yet 40 MHz scanning has fewer channels to scan and the FFT information obtained from 40 MHz channels is sufficient to classify interference sources. The algorithms use a combination of 20 MHz and 40 MHz scanning to optimize scan efficiency without sacrificing the ability to receive and decode 802.11 signals or determine interferers. A threshold may be set to determine the time interval within which the spectrum analyzer must scan all possible 20 MHz channels within the selected band at least once. The scanning order and dwell time can be combined with this threshold to select the ordering and dwell times of each 20 MHz or 40 MHz channel. The same process can be extended to 80 MHz channels or higher width channels when available.

The device system and scanning methods use various adaptive algorithms that alternate between selection of primary and secondary channels across different scan operations to cover all channels within a full radio frequency spectrum with multiple passes. The dwell times designated to cover all the channels of the full spectrum remain short hence variable dwell times are designated for scanning of the various segments. Larger dwell times are allocated for channels where non interfering signals are present or expected. Medium dwell times are allocated for channels where most Wi Fi activity is present or expected and lower dwell times are allocated where less Wi Fi activity is present or expected. Dwell times are dynamically adjusted based on the levels of interfering signals and levels of Wi Fi activity that is detected.

The controller is a hardware device and or software module that manages the network elements which include but are not limited to either controlling planning allocating deploying coordinating and monitoring the resources of a network network planning frequency allocation predetermined traffic routing to support load balancing cryptographic key distribution authorization configuration management fault management security management performance management bandwidth management route analytics and accounting management etc.

Moreover a number of access points for example access point may be interconnected with the network controller . Each access point may be interconnected with one or more client devices via either a wired interface or a wireless interface. In the example that is shown for illustration purposes only the client is associated with the access point via a wireless link. An access point generally refers to a network device that allows wireless clients to connect to a wired network. Access points usually connect to a controller via a wired network or can be a part of a controller in itself. For example the access point is connected to the controller via an optional L2 L3 network .

Wired interfaces typically include IEEE 802.3 Ethernet interfaces used for wired connections to other network devices such as switches or to a controller. Wireless interfaces may be WiMAX 3G 4G and or IEEE 802.11 wireless interfaces. In some embodiments controllers and APs may operate under control of operating systems with purpose built programs providing host controller and access point functionality

Furthermore the controller can be connected to the router through zero or more hops in a layer 3 or layer 2 network such as L2 L3 Network A . The router can forward traffic to and receive traffic from the network such as the Internet . The router is generally a network device configured to forward data packets among different networks and thus creating an overlay internetwork. A router is typically connected to two or more data lines from different networks. When a data packet comes in one of the data lines the router reads the address information in the packet to determine its destination. Then using information in its routing table or routing policy the router directs the packet to the next different network. A data packet is typically forwarded from one router to another router through the network e.g. Internet until the packet reaches its final destination.

The gateway is a network device configured to pass network traffic from a local subnet to devices on other subnets. In some embodiments the gateway may be connected to a controller or be a part of the controller depending on the configuration of the controller .

Web servers and are hardware devices and or software modules that facilitate delivery of web content that can be accessed through the Internet .

For example the web server A indicated by reference numeral may be assigned an IP address of 1.1.1.1 and used to host a first Internet website e.g. www.yahoo.com the web server B indicated by reference numeral may be assigned an IP address of 2.2.2.2 and used to host a second Internet website e.g. www.google.com and the web server C indicated by reference numeral may be assigned an IP address of 3.3.3.3 and used to host a third Internet website e.g. www.facebook.com .

The client may be a computing device that includes a memory and a processor for example a laptop computer a desktop computer a tablet computer a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a mobile email device a portable game player a wireless bar code scanner a portable music player a reader device a television with one or more processors embedded therein or coupled thereto or other electronic device capable of accessing a network. Although only one client is illustrated in it should be recognized that a plurality of clients can be included in .

According to embodiments of the present disclosure network services provided by the network device or system solely or in combination with other wireless network devices include but are not limited to an Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.1x authentication to an internal and or external Remote Authentication Dial In User Service RADIUS server a MAC authentication to an internal and or external RADIUS server a built in Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol DHCP service to assign wireless client devices IP addresses an internal secured management interface Layer 3 forwarding Network Address Translation NAT service between the wireless network and a wired network coupled to the network device an internal and or external captive portal an external management system for managing the network devices in the wireless network etc. In some embodiments the network device or system may serve as a node in a distributed or a cloud computing environment.

In some embodiments the network device or system includes at least one network interface capable of communicating to a wired network a processor a memory and a storage device . The components of the network device or system are communicatively coupled to each other.

The network interface can be any communication interface for coupling network devices which includes but is not limited to a modem token ring interface Ethernet interface wireless IEEE 802.11 interface e.g. IEEE 802.11n IEEE 802.11ac etc. cellular wireless interface satellite transmission interface or any other interface for coupling network devices. In some embodiments network interface may be software defined and programmable for example via an Application Programming Interface API and thus allowing for remote control of the network device .

The processor includes an arithmetic logic unit a microprocessor a general purpose controller or some other processor array configured to perform computations and provide electronic display signals to a display device. The processor processes data signals and may include various computing architectures including a complex instruction set computer CISC architecture a reduced instruction set computer RISC architecture or an architecture implementing a combination of instruction sets. Although illustrates only a single processor multiple processors may be used. Other processors operating systems sensors displays and physical configurations are also possible. In some embodiments the processor includes a networking processor core that is capable of processing network data traffic.

The memory stores instructions and or data that may be executed by the processor . The instructions and or data may include code for performing the techniques described herein. The memory may be a dynamic random access memory DRAM device a static random access memory SRAM device flash memory or some other memory device. In some embodiments memory also includes a non volatile memory or similar permanent storage device and media including a hard disk drive a floppy disk drive a CD ROM device a DVD ROM device a DVD RAM device a DVD RW device a flash memory device or some other mass storage device for storing information on a more permanent basis.

In some embodiments a wideband frequency spectrum analysis application is stored in memory . The wideband frequency spectrum analysis application can be the code and routines that when executed by processor cause the network device to implement scanning of a wideband spectrum of channels of different or varying width to capture wideband spectrum data. In some embodiments the memory stores a wideband frequency spectrum analysis application . The wideband frequency spectrum analysis application can be code and routines for performing adaptive scanning of a wideband spectrum of frequency channels based on determining levels of Wi Fi activity and presence or expectation of interference from other sources. In some embodiments the wideband frequency spectrum analysis application may identify any particular type of signal that is of interest. In some instances this particular type of signal may reflect an interfering signal causing intrusion in the wireless digital network. In some instances the particular type of signal may reflect a Wi Fi signal from an adjacent network. In some instances this particular type of signal may reflect any other signal of interest to a system administrator. In some embodiments the wideband frequency spectrum analysis application can be located in an access point . In some other embodiments the wideband frequency spectrum analysis application can be located in a controller a router a gateway a switch or any other network device. In some embodiments the wideband frequency spectrum analysis application can be implemented using hardware including a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific integrated circuit ASIC . In some other embodiments the wideband frequency spectrum analysis application can be implemented using a combination of hardware and software. In some embodiments the wideband frequency spectrum analysis application may be stored either in a combination of the network devices or in one of the network devices. The wideband frequency spectrum analysis application is described below in more detail with reference to .

The storage device may be a non transitory memory that stores data for providing the functionality described herein. The storage device may be a dynamic random access memory DRAM device a static random access memory SRAM device flash memory or some other memory devices. In some embodiments storage device also includes a non volatile memory or similar permanent storage device and media including a hard disk drive a floppy disk drive a CD ROM device a DVD ROM device a DVD RAM device a DVD RW device a flash memory device or some other mass storage device for storing information on a more permanent basis.

The communication module can be software including routines for handling communications between the wideband frequency spectrum analyzer application and other components in the digital computing environment . In some embodiments the communication module can be a set of instructions executable by the processor to provide the functionality described herein. In some other embodiments the communication module can be stored in the memory of the wideband frequency spectrum analyzer application and can be accessible and executable by the processor .

In some embodiments the communication module may be adapted for cooperation and communication with the processor and other components of the wideband frequency spectrum analyzer application such as the network interface the storage etc.

In some embodiments the communication module sends and receives data to and from one or more of a client an access point and other network devices via the network interface in the event of distributed functionalities.

In some embodiments the communication module handles communications between components of the wideband spectrum analyzer application .

In some embodiments the communication module receives data from other components of the wideband frequency spectrum analyzer application and stores the data in the storage device . For example the communication module may receive data describing a controller s TX count and RX count associated with an access point and stores the controller s TX count and RX count in the storage device .

In some embodiments the communication module retrieves data from the storage device and sends the data to other components of the wideband frequency spectrum analyzer application . For example the communication module retrieves data to designate sub band selections within a frequency spectrum designate alternating primary and secondary selection of particular channels and or designate variable dwell times levels of Wi Fi activity and modification of scanning algorithms.

The sub band designation module can be software including routines for the wideband frequency spectrum analyzer to either segment or partition the wideband spectrum into sub bands to facilitate covering the entire wideband with multiple scans or passes. In some embodiments the wideband frequency spectrum analyzer application may be located in each access point or other radio network device to perform adaptive scanning operations. In some embodiments the sub band designation module can be a set of instructions executable by the processor to provide the functionality described herein. In some other embodiments the sub band designation module can be stored in the memory of the wideband frequency spectrum analyzer application and can be accessible and executable by the processor . In some embodiments the sub band designation module may be adapted for cooperation and communication with the processor and other components of the wideband frequency spectrum analyzer application such as the network interface the storage etc. In some embodiments the sub band designation module designates either splitting or partitioning of the spectrum of frequency channels into segments for performing multiple scan passes that may be modified depending upon criteria that is determined. The segments include contiguous and non contiguous segments. For example the sub band designation module can configure a 40 MHz spectrum of channels by defining a portion of the spectrum as the primary channel. For example the first 20 MHz channels may be designated as the primary channel and the second 20 MHz channels may be designated as the secondary channel or vice versa. The primary channel generally refers to the channel used for transmissions at its native bandwidth. For each channel bandwidth there is one primary channel meaning that it is the channel used to transmit frames at that channel width. For example considering eight 20 MHz contiguous segments from channel and to transmit a 20 MHz frame on a 20 MHz primary channel e.g. channel channel must be free and the network will transmit 20 MHz frames on channel . To transmit a 40 MHz frame on its 40 MHz primary channel both channels and must be free. To transmit an 80 MHz frame the four channels through must all be free. Finally to transmit a 160 MHz frame all eight channels from through must be free. The notion of primary and secondary channels helps multiple networks to share the same frequency space. Due to the wide variety of devices and data rates in use a network that is designed for peak speed using 160 MHz channels will not always need the full capacity of the channel. Two networks may share the same 160 MHz channel. They may both transmit 80 MHz frames at the same time because their primary 80 MHz channels are different.

By this partitioning of the wideband spectrum of frequency channels appropriate scanning algorithms are executed for each segment not only to effectively scan the entire band of channels in the spectrum but also to address the myriad limitations of conventional wireless receivers that are customary. For example in some instances conventional wireless radios when using a 40 MHz channel may not be able to receive 20 MHz Wi Fi traffic on the secondary 20 MHz channel. As another example in some instances conventional wireless radios may also not be able to receive 40 MHz Wi Fi frames with a different primary secondary channel. Similar issues may also be present in 80 MHz and 160 MHz channels. In some instances when a narrowband interferer is present on the secondary 20 MHz channel of a 40 MHz channel channel parameters such as noise floor channel utilization and signal strength of the interferer may be incorrectly determined simply because the radio cannot detect interferers on the secondary channel with ease. Similar issues may also be present in 80 MHz and 160 MHz channels.

The interferer detection module can be software including routines for detecting interferer signals in the channels that are being scanned. In some embodiments the interferer module can be a set of instructions executable by the processor to provide the functionality described herein. In some other embodiments the interferer module can be stored in the memory of the wideband spectrum analyzer and can be accessible and executable by the processor . In some embodiments the interferer detection module may be adapted for cooperation and communication with the processor and other components of the wideband spectrum analyzer such as the network interface the storage etc.

In some embodiments the interferer detection module determines if there are any interference signals in particular frequency channels or segments of the frequency channels that are being scanned as identified by the sub band designation module . For example in some embodiments the interferer detection module determines if there are any interfering signals created either intermittently or continuously by the presence of non network devices for example radio frequency devices that are not a part of the digital wireless network. Examples of these types of non network radio frequency device may be microwave ovens wireless video streaming devices cordless phones and the like as well as other adjacent wireless networking devices.

In some embodiments the interferer detection module may determine if there is no non interferer presence by indicating the absence of interference. In some embodiments the interferer detection module may determine if interference is expected. In the event non interferer presence is neither detected nor expected dwell times may be adjusted accordingly.

The Wi Fi activity detection module can be software including routines for detecting the amount or level or Wi Fi activity that is either expected or present within particular frequency channels or particular segments of the wideband frequency spectrum as identified by the sub band designation module . In some embodiments the Wi Fi activity detection module can be a set of instructions executable by the processor to provide the functionality described herein. In some other embodiments the Wi Fi activity detection module can be stored in the memory of the wideband spectrum analyzer and can be accessible and executable by the processor . In some embodiments the Wi Fi activity detection module may be adapted for cooperation and communication with the processor and other components of the wideband spectrum analyzer such as the network interface the storage etc.

The Wi Fi activity detection module determines levels of Wi Fi activity. In some embodiments the levels of Wi Fi activity are based on present Wi Fi activity that is detected in the segments of the frequency channels that are designated for scanning by the sub band designation module . In some embodiments the Wi Fi activity detection module may determine expected levels of Wi Fi activity. By determining either the actual levels of Wi Fi activity or the expected levels of Wi Fi activity dwell times for scanning operations can be adjusted. In some embodiments levels of Wi Fi activity may be determined by considering a threshold level of Wi Fi activity and determining if the level detected or determined exceeds this threshold level. Alternatively other ways to determine a level of Wi Fi activity may also be used. It should be recognized that Wi Fi activity may reflect Wi Fi channel utilization number of APs number of clients presence of a rogue AP too many error packets indicating presence of a Wi Fi transmitter with signals that cannot be deciphered too many Wi Fi retry packets too many Wi Fi checksum error packets etc. In the event the level of Wi Fi activity is high or low the dwell times for scan operations are adjusted. Once the dwell times are adjusted a scan operation is started with each pass sweeping the designated channels in the spectrum according to the variable dwell times determined.

The dwell time adjustment module can be software including routines for either designating or adjusting suitable dwell times for scanning operations of channels with varying or different widths. In some embodiments the dwell time adjustment module can be a set of instructions executable by the processor to provide the functionality described herein. In some other embodiments the dwell time adjustment module can be stored in the memory of the wideband spectrum analyzer and can be accessible and executable by the processor . In some embodiments the dwell time adjustment module may be adapted for cooperation and communication with the processor and other components of the wideband spectrum analyzer such as the network interface the storage etc.

In some embodiments the dwell time adjustment module makes adjustments to dwell times for scan operations. Once the dwell times are adjusted a scan operation is started with each pass sweeping the designated channels in the spectrum according to the variable dwell times determined. The dwell times may be adjusted or designated to allow varying amounts of time spent at different channels or segments as designated by the sub band designation module . As one example the dwell time adjustment module may designate 100 msec for an upper band 75 msec for a lower mid band and 50 msec for a 50 MHz frequency channel. It should be recognized that the dwell time adjustment module may dynamically adjust these dwell times based on detection on interferer and Wi Fi activity levels.

In some embodiments when a fixed time interval is accorded by scanning operations this fixed time interval is divided into variable dwell times for scanning various segments of the frequency channels as designated by the sub band module .

The scan modification configuration module can be software including routines for modifying the algorithms used in the scan operations based upon detecting interferer or levels of Wi Fi activity or other criteria that may be specified. In some embodiments the scan modification module can be a set of instructions executable by the processor to provide the functionality described herein. In some other embodiments the scan modification module can be stored in the memory of the wideband spectrum analyzer and can be accessible and executable by the processor . In some embodiments the scan modification module may be adapted for cooperation and communication with the processor and other components of the wideband spectrum analyzer such as the network interface the storage etc.

The scan modification configuration module adaptively modifies algorithms that may be used for capturing data depending on evaluating the type and strength of interfering signals that are either detected or expected to be present in a particular channel. In some embodiments these algorithms designate predetermined or fixed periods of time for scanning operations for example a few seconds in order to determine and collect data for example signal strength utilization of channel and interference power ACI adjacent channel interference . These algorithms may be modified to perform scanning operations that include splitting or partitioning the frequency channel spectrums contiguous or non contiguous . In some embodiments the scan modification configuration module modifies scans to perform multiple passes depending upon criteria determined with each pass.

In some embodiments the scan modification module can assess and determine the capability of a particular access point AP . As one example the sub band designation module configures a 40 MHz spectrum of channels by first defining a portion of the wideband frequency spectrum as the primary channel. For example the sub band designation module designates the first 20 MHz channels as the primary channel and the second 20 MHz channels as the secondary channel or vice versa. In some embodiments the scan modification configuration module selects an appropriate scanning algorithm to effectively scan the entire band of channels in the spectrum. In some embodiments the scan modification configuration module selects an appropriate scanning algorithm to address the myriad limitations of conventional wireless receivers some of which are described above.

The scan operation module can be software including routines for initiating or performing various scan operations either the first second or other scan operations. In some embodiments the scan operation module can be a set of instructions executable by the processor to provide the functionality described herein. In some other embodiments the scan operation module can be stored in the memory of the wideband spectrum analyzer and can be accessible and executable by the processor . In some embodiments the scan operation module may be adapted for cooperation and communication with the processor and other components of the wideband spectrum analyzer such as the network interface the storage etc.

In some embodiments the scan operations module performs multiple scan operations configured to scan the entire band of frequency channels in multiple passes to capture wideband spectrum data. The scan modification configuration module adaptively modifies the algorithms used for data collection depending on the type and signal strength of the interferers that are present in a particular channel. In some embodiments the scan operations module completes a sweep of the spectrum in a predetermined or fixed period of time for example a few seconds in order to capture data for example signal strength utilization of channel and interference power ACI adjacent channel interference . The scan operations use scanning operations that include scanning split partitioned or segmented spectrum of frequency channels and performing multiple scan passes depending upon criteria determined with each scan pass.

In some embodiments depending upon the capability of a particular access point AP the scan operation module scans designated frequency channels. As one example the scan operation module scans either primary or secondary channels as designated with appropriate scanning algorithm. In some embodiments 

In some embodiments the scan operation module alternates scans of primary and secondary channels selected to cover the entire spectrum by making multiple passes. In order to stay within the dwell times that are allocated the scan operation module makes each pass consistent with the dwell times that are designated. In some embodiments the scan operation module scans according to algorithms identified by the scan modification configuration module based on the levels of Wi Fi activity that is determined or presence of interfering signals.

In some embodiments the wideband spectrum data collection module can be software including routines for collecting data from the various adaptive scans of the segments designated. The data captured from these adaptive scans may be combined.

In some embodiments the wideband spectrum data collection module can be a set of instructions executable by the processor to provide the functionality described herein. In some other embodiments the wideband spectrum data collection module can be stored in the memory of the wideband spectrum analyzer and can be accessible and executable by the processor . In some embodiments the wideband spectrum data collection module may be adapted for cooperation and communication with the processor and other components of the wideband spectrum analyzer such as the network interface the storage etc.

In some embodiments spectrum data is collected by one or more network devices or radios in a network such as access points APs controllers or from suitably equipped client devices. Spectrum data may be combined on a device producing a wideband spectrum or may be sent in combined or uncombined form to another device designated for combining into a wideband spectrum according to the processes that are described here. As an example samples from internet devices radios are combined for display on a computer. In some embodiments samples from APs that are located proximate each other may be combined to provide estimates of the wideband spectrum in a particular area. In some embodiments these data samples may be combined with additional data samples from suitable client devices in the area. Such data samples may be stored for later combination and analysis.

The present disclosure may be realized in hardware software or a combination of hardware and software. The present disclosure may be realized in a centralized fashion in one computer system or in a distributed fashion where different elements are spread across several interconnected computer systems coupled to a network. A typical combination of hardware and software may be an access point with a computer program that when being loaded and executed controls the device or system such that it carries out the methods described herein.

The present disclosure also may be embedded in non transitory fashion in a computer readable storage medium e.g. a programmable circuit a semiconductor memory such as a volatile memory e.g. a random access memory RAM or non volatile memory such as read only memory power backed RAM flash memory phase change memory or the like a hard disk drive an optical disc drive or any connector for receiving a portable memory device such as a Universal Serial Bus USB flash drive which comprises all the features enabling the implementation of the methods described herein and which when loaded in a computer system is able to carry out these methods. A computer program in the present context means any expression in any language code or notation of a set of instructions intended to cause a system having an information processing capability to perform a particular function either directly or after either or both of the following a conversion to another language code or notation and b reproduction in a different material form.

As used herein digital device generally includes a device that is adapted to transmit and or receive signaling and to process information within such signaling such as a station e.g. any data processing equipment such as a computer cellular phone personal digital assistant tablet devices etc. an access point data transfer devices such as network switches routers controllers etc. or the like.

As used herein access point AP generally refers to receiving points for any known or convenient wireless access technology which may later become known. Specifically the term access point or AP is not intended to be limited to IEEE 802.11 based APs. APs generally function as an electronic device or system that is adapted to allow wireless devices to connect to a wired network via various communications standards.

As used herein the term interconnect or used descriptively as interconnected is generally defined as a communication pathway established over an information carrying medium. The interconnect may be a wired interconnect wherein the medium is a physical medium e.g. electrical wire optical fiber cable bus traces etc. a wireless interconnect e.g. air in combination with wireless signaling technology or a combination of these technologies.

As used herein information is generally defined as data address control management e.g. statistics or any combination thereof. For transmission information may be transmitted as a message namely a collection of bits in a predetermined format. One type of message namely a wireless message includes a header and payload data having a predetermined number of bits of information. The wireless message may be placed in a format as one or more packets frames or cells.

As used herein wireless local area network WLAN generally refers to a communications network that links two or more devices or systems using some wireless distribution method for example spread spectrum or orthogonal frequency division multiplexing radio and usually provides a connection through an access point to the Internet 

and thus providing users with the mobility to move around within a local coverage area and still stay connected to the network.

As used herein the term mechanism generally refers to a component of a system or device to serve one or more functions including but not limited to software components electronic components electrical components mechanical components electro mechanical components etc.

As used herein the term embodiment or implementation generally refers to an embodiment or implementation that serves to illustrate by way of example but not limitation.

Some portions of the detailed descriptions are presented in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on data bits within a computer memory. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are the means used by those skilled in the data processing arts to most effectively convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. An algorithm is here and generally conceived to be a self consistent sequence of steps leading to a desired result. The steps are those requiring physical manipulations of physical quantities. Usually though not necessarily these quantities take the form of electrical or magnetic signals capable of being stored transferred combined compared and otherwise manipulated. It has proven convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to these signals as bits values elements symbols characters terms numbers or the like.

It should be borne in mind however that all of these and similar terms are to be associated with the appropriate physical quantities and are merely convenient labels applied to these quantities. Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the foregoing discussion it is appreciated that throughout the description discussions utilizing terms including processing or computing or calculating or determining or displaying or the like refer to the action and processes of a computer system or similar electronic computing device which manipulates and transforms data represented as physical electronic quantities within the computer system s registers and memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the computer system memories or registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices.

Input output or I O devices including but not limited to keyboards displays pointing devices etc. can be coupled to the system either directly or through intervening I O controllers.

The particular naming and division of the modules routines features attributes methodologies and other aspects are not mandatory or significant and the mechanisms that implement the specification or its features may have different names divisions and or formats. Furthermore as will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the relevant art the modules routines features attributes methodologies and other aspects of the disclosure can be implemented as software hardware firmware or any combination of the three. Also wherever a component an example of which is a module of the specification is implemented as software the component can be implemented as a stand alone program as part of a larger program as a plurality of separate programs as a statically or dynamically linked library as a kernel loadable module as a device driver and or in every and any other way known now or in the future to those of ordinary skill in the art of computer programming.

It will be appreciated to those skilled in the art that the preceding examples and embodiments are exemplary and not limiting to the scope of the present disclosure. It is intended that all permutations enhancements equivalents and improvements thereto that are apparent to those skilled in the art upon a reading of the specification and a study of the drawings are included within the true spirit and scope of the present disclosure. It is therefore intended that the following appended claims include all such modifications permutations and equivalents that may fall within the true spirit and scope of the present disclosure.

While the present disclosure has been described in terms of various embodiments the present disclosure should not be limited to only those embodiments described but can be practiced with modification and alteration within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. Likewise where a reference to a standard is made in the present disclosure the reference is generally made to the current version of the standard as applicable to the disclosed technology area. However the described embodiments may be practiced under subsequent development of the standard within the spirit and scope of the description and appended claims. The description is thus to be regarded as illustrative rather than limiting.

