---

title: Conversation-integrated action items in social networks
abstract: A device and a method are disclosed including Conversation-Integrated Action System (CIAS) having networking facilities to allow multiple remote users of a social network to enter into a social conversation. CIAS is further configured to allow specific and relevant actions to be presented to achieve specific and definite results. Such integrated actions may include, but are not limited to, marking the status of the conversation, marking a part of the conversation as a decision with which the users agree, deleting the conversation, managing the conversation, editing the conversation, granting various action permissions to various users, opening or closing the conversation, concluding the conversation, saving the conversation, searching for previous conversations, generating statistical and measured data based on the conversation, starting another related conversation, triggering actions by a third party work flow system, and the like.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09094361&OS=09094361&RS=09094361
owner: JIVE SOFTWARE, Inc.
number: 09094361
owner_city: Portland
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130726
---
This application relates generally to social networks. More specifically this application relates to action items and tasks integrated with a conversation on social networks to achieve particular results.

While the present disclosure is described with reference to several illustrative embodiments described herein it should be clear that the present disclosure should not be limited to such embodiments. Therefore the description of the embodiments provided herein is illustrative of the present disclosure and should not limit the scope of the disclosure as claimed. In addition while following description references online messaging and written conversations using laptop computers or other computing devices it will be appreciated that the disclosure may be used with other modes of conversation and other computing devices such as spoken or oral communications using mobile devices like smartphones.

Briefly described a device and a method are disclosed including Conversation Integrated Action System CIAS having networking facilities to allow multiple remote users of a social network to enter into a social conversation. In various embodiments CIAS is further configured to allow specific and relevant actions to be presented with respect to the conversation to achieve specific and definite results. Such integrated actions may include but are not limited to marking the status of the conversation marking a part of the conversation as a decision with which the users agree deleting the conversation managing the conversation editing the conversation granting various action permissions to various users opening or closing the conversation concluding the conversation saving the conversation searching for previous conversations generating statistical and measured data based on the conversation starting another related conversation triggering actions by a third party work flow system and the like. Each action may apply to the whole conversation or only to selected comments within the conversation as appropriate.

With the ubiquity of computing devices with rich GUI such as powerful smartphones laptop computers computing pads and tablets among others and widely available high speed computer networks access to information is easier than ever. Using these devices and the Internet to communicate may generate a large volume of data and allow many potentially valuable interactions between the participating users. However much of the conversation especially on the social networks take place in a computing environment in which definite actions and outcomes are not an integrated part of the environment and hence may not result from user interactions. As such much of the conversation may be wasted and repeated over and over again by others due to the lack of a structured action and outcome facility and due to not saving the conversation based experience. The experience may include the content of the conversation itself in addition to the actions taken and the results achieved. Taken together the conversation the actions and the results may create an experience pattern applicable to future conversations which may be different in subject but similar in structure and process.

Therefore having integrated and recognized actions and results associated with conversations taking place in a social network environment and the storage of such conversation based experiences for future reference and use can be highly valuable.

One embodiment of a computing device usable as one of client computing devices is described in more detail below with respect to . Briefly however client computing devices may include virtually any device capable of receiving and sending a message over a network such as wireless network or the like. Such devices include portable devices such as cellular telephones smart phones display pagers radio frequency RF devices music players digital cameras infrared IR devices Personal Digital Assistants PDAs handheld computers laptop computers wearable computers tablet computers integrated devices combining one or more of the preceding devices or the like. Client device may include virtually any computing device that typically connects using a wired communications medium such as personal computers multiprocessor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics network PCs or the like. In one embodiment one or more of client devices may also be configured to operate over a wired and or a wireless network.

Client devices typically range widely in terms of capabilities and features. For example a cell phone may have a numeric keypad and a few lines of monochrome LCD display on which only text may be displayed. In another example a web enabled client device may have a touch sensitive screen a stylus and several lines of color LCD display in which both text and graphic may be displayed.

A web enabled client device may include a browser application that is configured to receive and to send web pages web based messages or the like. The browser application may be configured to receive and display graphic text multimedia or the like employing virtually any web based language including a wireless application protocol messages WAP or the like. In one embodiment the browser application may be enabled to employ one or more of Handheld Device Markup Language HDML Wireless Markup Language WML WMLScript JavaScript Standard Generalized Markup Language SMGL HyperText Markup Language HTML eXtensible Markup Language XML or the like to display and send information.

Client computing devices also may include at least one other client application that is configured to receive content from another computing device including without limit server computing devices . The client application may include a capability to provide and receive textual content multimedia information or the like. The client application may further provide information that identifies itself including a type capability name or the like. In one embodiment client devices may uniquely identify themselves through any of a variety of mechanisms including a phone number Mobile Identification Number MIN an electronic serial number ESN mobile device identifier network address such as IP Internet Protocol address Media Access Control MAC layer identifier or other identifier. The identifier may be provided in a message or the like sent to another computing device.

Client computing devices may also be configured to communicate a message such as through email Short Message Service SMS Multimedia Message Service MMS instant messaging IM internet relay chat IRC Mardam Bey s IRC mIRC Jabber or the like to another computing device. However the present disclosure is not limited to these message protocols and virtually any other message protocol may be employed.

Client devices may further be configured to include a client application that enables the user to log into a user account that may be managed by another computing device. Such user account for example may be configured to enable the user to receive emails send receive IM messages SMS messages access selected web pages download scripts applications or a variety of other content or perform a variety of other actions over a network. However managing of messages or otherwise accessing and or downloading content may also be performed without logging into the user account. Thus a user of client devices may employ any of a variety of client applications to access content read web pages receive send messages or the like. In one embodiment for example the user may employ a browser or other client application to access a web page hosted by a Web server implemented as server computing device . In one embodiment messages received by client computing devices may be saved in non volatile memory such as flash and or PCM across communication sessions and or between power cycles of client computing devices .

Wireless network may be configured to couple client devices to network . Wireless network may include any of a variety of wireless sub networks that may further overlay stand alone ad hoc networks and the like to provide an infrastructure oriented connection for client devices . Such sub networks may include mesh networks Wireless LAN WLAN networks cellular networks and the like. Wireless network may further include an autonomous system of terminals gateways routers and the like connected by wireless radio links and the like. These connectors may be configured to move freely and randomly and organize themselves arbitrarily such that the topology of wireless network may change rapidly.

Wireless network may further employ a plurality of access technologies including 2nd 2G 3rd 3G 4th 4G and any future generation radio access technologies for cellular systems WLAN Wireless Router WR mesh and the like. Access technologies such as 2G 3G and future access networks may enable wide area coverage for mobile devices such as client devices with various degrees of mobility. For example wireless network may enable a radio connection through a radio network access such as Global System for Mobil communication GSM General Packet Radio Services GPRS Enhanced Data GSM Environment EDGE WEDGE Bluetooth High Speed Downlink Packet Access HSDPA Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS Wi Fi Zigbee Wideband Code Division Multiple Access WCDMA and the like. In essence wireless network may include virtually any wireless communication mechanism by which information may travel between client devices and another computing device network and the like.

Network is configured to couple one or more servers depicted in as server computing devices and their respective components with other computing devices such as client device and through wireless network to client devices . Network is enabled to employ any form of computer readable media for communicating information from one electronic device to another. Also network may include the Internet in addition to local area networks LANs wide area networks WANs direct connections such as through a universal serial bus USB port other forms of computer readable media or any combination thereof. On an interconnected set of LANs including those based on differing architectures and protocols a router acts as a link between LANs enabling messages to be sent from one to another.

Communication links within LANs typically include twisted wire pair or coaxial cable while communication links between networks may utilize analog telephone lines full or fractional dedicated digital lines including T1 T2 T3 and T4 Integrated Services Digital Networks ISDNs Digital Subscriber Lines DSLs wireless links including satellite links or other communications links known to those skilled in the art. Furthermore remote computers and other related electronic devices could be remotely connected to either LANs or WANs via a modem and temporary telephone link. Network may include any communication method by which information may travel between computing devices. Additionally communication media typically may enable transmission of computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other types of content virtually without limit. By way of example communication media includes wired media such as twisted pair coaxial cable fiber optics wave guides and other wired media and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media.

With continued reference to computing device includes optical storage Central Processing Unit CPU memory module display interface audio interface input devices Input Output I O processor bus non volatile memory various other interfaces Network Interface Card NIC hard disk power supply transceiver antenna haptic interface and Global Positioning System GPS unit . Memory module may include software such as Operating System OS and a variety of software application programs . Computing device may also include other components not shown in . For example computing device may further include an illuminator for example a light graphic interface and portable storage media such as USB drives. Computing device may also include other processing units such as a math co processor graphics processor accelerator and a Digital Signal Processor DSP .

Optical storage device may include optical drives for using optical media such as CD Compact Disc DVD Digital Video Disc and the like. Optical storage devices may provide inexpensive ways for storing information for archival and or distribution purposes.

Central Processing Unit CPU may be the main processor for software program execution in computing device . CPU may represent one or more processing units that obtain software instructions from memory module and execute such instructions to carry out computations and or transfer data between various sources and destinations of data such as hard disk I O processor display interface input devices non volatile memory and the like.

Memory module may include RAM Random Access Memory ROM Read Only Memory and other storage means mapped to one addressable memory space. Memory module illustrates one of many types of computer storage media for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Memory module may store a basic input output system BIOS for controlling low level operation of computing device . Memory module may also store OS for controlling the general operation of computing device . It will be appreciated that OS may include a general purpose operating system such as a version of UNIX or LINUX or a specialized client communication operating system such as Windows Mobile or the Symbian operating system. OS may in turn include or interface with a Java virtual machine JVM module that enables control of hardware components and or operating system operations via Java application programs.

Memory module may further include one or more distinct areas by address space and or other means which can be utilized by computing device to store among other things applications and or other data. For example one area of memory module may be set aside and employed to store information that describes various capabilities of computing device a device identifier and the like. Such identification information may then be provided to another device based on any of a variety of events including being sent as part of a header during a communication sent upon request or the like. One common software application is a browser program that is generally used to send receive information to from a web server. In one embodiment the browser application is enabled to employ Handheld Device Markup Language HDML Wireless Markup Language WML WMLScript JavaScript Standard Generalized Markup Language SMGL HyperText Markup Language HTML eXtensible Markup Language XML and the like to display and send a message. However any of a variety of other web based languages may also be employed. In one embodiment using the browser application a user may view an article or other content on a web page with one or more highlighted portions as target objects.

Display interface may be coupled with a display unit not shown such as liquid crystal display LCD gas plasma light emitting diode LED or any other type of display unit that may be used with computing device . Display units coupled with display interface may also include a touch sensitive screen arranged to receive input from an object such as a stylus or a digit from a human hand. Display interface may further include interface for other visual status indicators such Light Emitting Diodes LED light arrays and the like. Display interface may include both hardware and software components. For example display interface may include a graphic accelerator for rendering graphic intensive outputs on the display unit. In one embodiment display interface may include software and or firmware components that work in conjunction with CPU to render graphic output on the display unit.

Audio interface is arranged to produce and receive audio signals such as the sound of a human voice. For example audio interface may be coupled to a speaker and microphone not shown to enable communication with a human operator such as spoken commands and or generate an audio acknowledgement for some action.

Input devices may include a variety of device types arranged to receive input from a user such as a keyboard a keypad a mouse a touchpad a touch screen described with respect to display interface a multi touch screen a microphone for spoken command input describe with respect to audio interface and the like.

I O processor is generally employed to handle transactions and communications with peripheral devices such as mass storage network input devices display and the like which couple computing device with the external world. In small low power computing devices such as some mobile devices functions of the I O processor may be integrated with CPU to reduce hardware cost and complexity. In one embodiment I O processor may the primary software interface with all other device and or hardware interfaces such as optical storage hard disk interfaces display interface audio interface and input devices .

An electrical bus internal to computing device may be used to couple various other hardware components such as CPU memory module I O processor and the like to each other for transferring data instructions status and other similar information.

Non volatile memory may include memory built into computing device or portable storage medium such as USB drives that may include PCM arrays flash memory including NOR and NAND flash pluggable hard drive and the like. In one embodiment portable storage medium may behave similarly to a disk drive. In another embodiment portable storage medium may present an interface different than a disk drive for example a read only interface used for loading supplying data and or software.

Various other interfaces may include other electrical and or optical interfaces for connecting to various hardware peripheral devices and networks such as IEEE 1394 also known as FireWire Universal Serial Bus USB Small Computer Serial Interface SCSI parallel printer interface Universal Synchronous Asynchronous Receiver Transmitter USART Video Graphics Array VGA Super VGA SVGA and the like.

Network Interface Card NIC may include circuitry for coupling computing device to one or more networks and is generally constructed for use with one or more communication protocols and technologies including but not limited to Global System for Mobile communication GSM code division multiple access CDMA time division multiple access TDMA user datagram protocol UDP transmission control protocol Internet protocol TCP IP SMS general packet radio service GPRS WAP ultra wide band UWB IEEE 802.16 Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMax SIP RTP Bluetooth Wi Fi Zigbee UMTS HSDPA WCDMA WEDGE or any of a variety of other wired and or wireless communication protocols.

Hard disk is generally used as a mass storage device for computing device . In one embodiment hard disk may be a Ferro magnetic stack of one or more disks forming a disk drive embedded in or coupled to computing device . In another embodiment hard drive may be implemented as a solid state device configured to behave as a disk drive such as a flash based hard drive. In yet another embodiment hard drive may be a remote storage accessible over network interface or another interface but acting as a local hard drive. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that other technologies and configurations may be used to present a hard drive interface and functionality to computing device without departing from the spirit of the present disclosure.

Power supply provides power to computing device . A rechargeable or non rechargeable battery may be used to provide power. The power may also be provided by an external power source such as an AC adapter or a powered docking cradle that supplements and or recharges a battery.

Transceiver generally represents transmitter receiver circuits for wired and or wireless transmission and receipt of electronic data. Transceiver may be a stand alone module or be integrated with other modules such as NIC . Transceiver may be coupled with one or more antennas for wireless transmission of information.

Antenna is generally used for wireless transmission of information for example in conjunction with transceiver NIC and or GPS . Antenna may represent one or more different antennas that may be coupled with different devices and tuned to different carrier frequencies configured to communicate using corresponding protocols and or networks. Antenna may be of various types such as omni directional dipole slot helical and the like.

Haptic interface is configured to provide tactile feedback to a user of computing device . For example the haptic interface may be employed to vibrate computing device or an input device coupled to computing device such as a game controller in a particular way when an event occurs such as hitting an object with a car in a video game.

Global Positioning System GPS unit can determine the physical coordinates of computing device on the surface of the Earth which typically outputs a location as latitude and longitude values. GPS unit can also employ other geo positioning mechanisms including but not limited to triangulation assisted GPS AGPS E OTD CI SAI ETA BSS or the like to further determine the physical location of computing device on the surface of the Earth. It is understood that under different conditions GPS unit can determine a physical location within millimeters for computing device . In other cases the determined physical location may be less precise such as within a meter or significantly greater distances. In one embodiment however a mobile device represented by computing device may through other components provide other information that may be employed to determine a physical location of the device including for example a MAC address.

In various embodiments CIAS may be integrated with and be an integral part of an online messaging system such as various social networks like Facebook and Google while in other embodiments CIAS may a browser plugin component configured to add functionality to such messaging systems as further described below. CIAS may be implemented and displayed by a hardware and or software system using one or more software components executing on the illustrative computing device of . One or more functions may be performed by each software module loaded into and executed from memory similar to application software modules shown in .

For example one or more separate software components may be used for each of the functions to manage the remarks of each user in the conversation action menus present a user interface display status search for past conversations filter search results based on various parameters and may perform any other function needed to carry out and implement the functions of the CIAS described herein. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that one function may implemented using multiple software modules or several functions may be implemented using one software module.

In various embodiments CIAS may be a software plug in component integrated with a web browser or a dedicated and independent third party software application used to interact with social networks on a client computing device such as a laptop personal computer a tablet device a smartphone or other mobile computing devices. In other embodiments CIAS may be a component integrated at server level within a particular social network facility which is presented to a user of the social network as part of the user interface. Such facility may be part of the web services of the social network.

In various embodiments multiple participants may start a conversation via a social network. A conversation may be made up of a sequence of remarks by the participants on one or more subjects of the conversation. Each remark may define a matter based on its informational content decision content action content recommendation content other types of contents or a combination thereof. As such the content of a remark may be defined as an option associated with the subject of the conversation by marking the remark as the meaning or content of the selected option.

For example if a remark asks for a particular action to be taken towards achieving an objective of the conversation then selecting an Action Item option from the Options menu associated with the remark designates that remark as an action item which may be performed followed tracked evaluated edited modified and otherwise processed as an integral part of the conversation as further described below with respect to . Such action items defined by the contents of the remarks may be assigned to one of the participant by a moderator of the conversation or be accepted and committed to by an individual participant based on the individual participant s own decision.

In various embodiments the actions associated with the conversation may be predefined. For example actions such as Delete Remark Mark as Decision and the like may be generically defined for all conversations while other actions are defined by the contents of the remarks as described above. In some embodiments actions may be predefined by the users or administrators while in other embodiments the actions may be predefined in the software system prior to being released to users. The ability to define actions may be useful in organizations or among close friends who often converse on particular subjects or types of subjects. This way actions may be predefined by users which are suitable for the typical subjects of conversation by the users. For example if a group of users often talk about travel arrangements actions such as Buy Tickets or Get Maps may be predefined for all such conversations. As another example in a financial institution conversations may often revolve around financial or economic subjects. In such an environment the users or the administrator may define actions such as Obtain Profit Loss Statement or Get Interest Rate which may be meaningful in most conversations.

The CIAS in effect turns a social conversation into an informally managed and coordinated group project with assigned action items and measurable results. As noted above the matters defined by the remarks may include decisions helpful information recommendations references to other information and the like. Each remark may be marked as one or more of these matter types. For example a remark may be marked as a helpful hint as a decision or as an action. In some embodiments the matters so defined may be reviewed edited annotated with side notes linked to another remark or conversation deleted or otherwise changed.

In various embodiments matters defined by participant remarks may be used to start a new conversation with its own set of matters similarly defined. The original conversation may be regarded as a parent conversation while the new conversation may be regarded as a child conversation. This generational model may be extended to any number of levels practicable. So a child conversation may spawn its own set of one or more child conversations. Typically the matters which are action items may result in a new conversation in the course of carrying out the action. For example if a participant accepts an action assigned to him he may need to start other conversations with some of the same or other people to perform the action. Thus a child conversation may be created.

In view of this relationship between the parent and child conversations any conversation can be a part of a bigger project or conversation. This way a casual and or social conversation by participants in an existing project may be integrated with the project without the formal constraints of project meetings project management and processes. For example participants in a project may chat on a social network about the day s work later in the evening and come up with beneficial ideas during the informal chat. CIAS makes it possible to integrate such informal conversation and the associated actions and decisions into the project without all the project tools and participants and preserve the ideas that are encountered in an informal setting.

Having a messaging environment in which structured actions and resulting outcomes may be freely defined by the participants a casual social conversation may start a new group project or initiative with specific objectives that the participants are interested in. For example groups of people engaged in a conversation about education recreation business environment and the like can benefit more from their conversation if they can assign and track actions and monitor and achieve outcomes than just making remarks which are not maintained or managed and thus may not result in any objective or measurable benefits or outcomes. A structured social conversation environment such as that created using CIAS systematically extracts the information and benefits of the contents of a social conversation.

In various embodiments the state of the conversation and its related data and meta data may be preserved to serve as a model a template a base or a tool in future conversations. The state of the conversation may include the content of the conversation the subject of the conversation the participants identities or roles the actions suggested during the conversation and or the actions actually performed the decisions made the results achieved other child conversations started time and text length of the conversation thread geographic or organizational distribution of the participants frequency of each participants participation in other conversations other various statistical data such as histograms of number of remarks made by each participant among other data. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that many other meta data and statistical data may be generated from a conversation without departing from the spirit of the present disclosures. For example The time distribution of the conversation the total number of words and number of remarks total number of actions total number of decisions number of reversed or edited decisions and the like may be extracted from the conversation.

In various embodiments some of the preserved data may persist beyond the life of the conversation in the form of conversation patterns defined by some or all of the above mentioned data associated with the conversation. Conversation patterns may be defined and associated with conversation categories according to certain predefined criteria such as the subject the results the number of participants the type and number of actions and the like. When another conversation is predicted to fall in a particular category for example by the conversation subject or goals then the conversation pattern associated with that category may be made available as a model or a tool to guide the new conversation by providing relevant information such as the likely actions needed the decisions the helpful information and the like from the conversation pattern for the particular category. Such relevant information such as some of the actions and decisions may be highly relevant and be adopted by the new conversation right away instead of repeating the same pattern others have followed in previous conversations only to arrive at the same actions and decisions. This way relevant portions of past experience in the form of conversation patterns may be applied to new and similar conversations saving time and effort and benefiting from accumulated experience and wisdom.

In various embodiments meta statistics and other meta data may be extracted and saved from across multiple conversations and or conversation patterns to assess the usefulness and quality of the criteria used to generate the conversation patterns. For example such meta statistics may be collected with respect to the average number of remarks or the average number of participants across many conversations. Such meta statistics may or may not indicate that the number of remarks may be a good indicator of the quality of results achieved by the conversation.

In various embodiments the actions and decisions created in the course of a conversation may be directly and explicitly related or linked to the results of the conversation. Such links may become part of the conversation pattern or template. The linking of the actions and decisions to the results or outcomes of the conversation effectively turns the social conversation into a project with appropriate actions decisions controls and structured outcome. The structured outcome resulting from such recognized and organized actions and decisions is in contrast to ad hoc outcomes of a common social conversation.

In various embodiments conversation patterns may be presented to the participants as graphical component such as an icon that when selected causes a dialog box to appear and present choices for adopting an action or a decision. In other embodiments the elements of the conversation pattern may be presented as an integral item on an action menu further described below with respect to below.

In various embodiments the actions decisions or results of a conversation may be related and or applicable to a third party software application or process. Accordingly in some embodiments the conversation may be linked to the third party application using a special software interface a software plugin component integrated with the third party application or the CIAS or both functions in an Application Programming Interface API or other software modules communication methods.

In some embodiments the CIAS may have a built in software interface to work with a particular or predetermined third party program. For example in a sales organization the CIAS may include an API a plugin or other type of software interface to communicate with a Customer Relationship Management CRM system used by the organization. In such an arrangement a conversation between sales people which includes an action item to contact a customer may utilize the interface to the CRM to present relevant information about the customers to the participants take some actions within the CRM such as set an appointment with a particular customer in the CRM and the like all as a part of some of the actions assigned in the conversation. In other embodiments a software plugin component may be installed on the CIAS or the third party application after software release as needed. In still other embodiments a web service may be used by the CIAS the third party application or both to achieve the needed communications between the two.

As another example staff participating in a web design project may use CIAS to capture useful ideas algorithms and techniques that come up during a casual or social conversation and integrate them into the project without having to repeat the same conversations in a more formal project environment.

Similarly in various embodiments the CIAS may have a built in software interface such as an API a plugin or other type of software interface to communicate with a Social Task Management System STMS used by an organization a corporation or an enterprise concern. STMS is generally used to share tasks and action items with others on a network typically visible to other participants. In such an arrangement a conversation between people which includes various action items resulting from the conversation may extend to and utilize the STMS to further manage the actions or create further visibility to the resulting actions and outcomes. This extension of actions and tasks into the STMS from CIAS may further allow sharing and coordination of tasks with other people and projects as relevant. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the software configuration needed to achieve the objectives of CIAS in relation to STMS may be similar to those discussed above with respect to CRM.

In addition to the integration of actions within a conversation with third party application actions as described above the results or outcomes of a conversation may also trigger the start of a process in another software application such as a work flow management software application CRM or STMS. For example a conversation may result in the decision to purchase some equipment which may in turn automatically trigger a purchasing work flow within the work flow management application.

In various embodiments process flow depicts the relationships between the main aspects or components described with respect to in a simplified and streamlined fashion. At a high level typically a social conversation starts commitments are made to actions defined within the conversation itself or predefined and assigned as appropriate actions are carried out possibly commencing other child conversations and outcomes result. All of these activities and results may be recorded in a storage facility as conversation patterns for future use as described above with respect to .

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that many other user interfaces may be presented to the users for selecting various action types without departing from the spirit of the present disclosure. For example each of the action types or conversation options may be presented as a separate graphical control such as a button an item in a drop down list and the like. Another user interface implementation may include separate menus to present each of the action types. For example a menu may be presented for an assignable action items another for decisions and another menu for other matter types.

In various embodiments a user may start a conversation on a social network integrated with the CIAS as described above using various techniques. The CIAS GUI may be presented as a mutual dialog pane showing the same information to all participating users as a thread of conversation. In some embodiments each user may choose an option from the Options menu or launched by the corresponding remark s action button related to some aspect or characteristic of the conversation. Each user may choose an option to designate a remark by himself or other users as a particular type of remark such as a decision as an assigned action as informational or other designations appropriate for the subject of the conversation. In other embodiments a conversation moderator or an administrator may be requested by the users to designate a remark as a particular type. For example the user may choose menu option Mark as Decision from Options menu to designate his or another remark as a decision in the present conversation.

In various embodiments the action button may cause a dialog box for Options menu to appear and give the user various options and actions the user may choose from. Some of the options appearing in dialog box when selected may cause a second dialog or information box or to appear providing further relevant actions or information for the item selected. For example if a user selections Action Item from dialog box a cascaded or second Action Item dialog box may appear to collect further information about the selected Action Item such as name of responsible party for the action item status of the action item a reminder or alert for the action item and the like.

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the dialog or information boxes may cascade many levels without departing from the spirit of the present disclosures. For example an item on the second dialog box when selected may cause a third dialog or information box or other user interface such as a new webpage to appear to provide further information collect information from the user and or present still further action items or other options for selection by the user.

In various embodiments action items decisions advice or other types of information may be available from previous conversations that have relevance to the current conversation based on various criteria. The criteria for relevance of a previous conversation to the current one may include similar or related subject of the conversation common participants common organization or project similar processes or actions that need to be taken similar results and the like.

In various embodiments previous conversations may be stored and or presented for selection by participants in a new conversation as a conversation pattern defined or characterized by one or more of subject content summary of contents participants organization involved project process action sequence of actions outcomes results statistical parameters such as frequencies of remarks and various actions and decisions among others date of conversation length of conversation and any other parameters information or meta data which may help in characterizing and identifying a conversation for the purpose of saving and using later in similar conversations. The participants of a new conversation may then be automatically presented by the CIAS with a list of potentially relevant conversations from the past to select from.

In various embodiments the conversation patterns generated based on past conversations may be applied to a present conversation as a template via which action menus such as those appearing in dialog boxes and may be adopted for use in the new conversation. In other embodiments portions of the contents of past conversations based on which corresponding conversation patterns were generated may be adopted into the new conversation to streamline the path to the outcome and avoid repeating the same points and remarks by various participants. In still other embodiments an entire record of a past conversation may be included in the conversation pattern presented to the participants in a current conversation. The entire record of the past conversation may include all the remarks list of participants meta information such as statistics and list of actions taken decisions outcomes and the like.

In still other embodiments the participants in a new conversation may be allowed to choose how much or what part of a conversation pattern they want to view in the context of their own current conversation and how they would like to apply the presented information from the conversation pattern to their own conversation. For example if the conversation pattern includes the entire record then the users may only choose to look at the results or the decisions made. In such embodiments filters may be provided in the user interface to allow the users in the current conversation filter and use only the type and scope of information they are interested in at the time. The filters may be adjusted in real time to allow more or less information to be presented as needed during the course of the conversation. This allows adaptive application of the conversation pattern to the present conversation as the present conversation progresses.

In other embodiments CIAS may automatically filter the conversation pattern based on decisions made actions taken meta data or other information associate with the present conversation. Such adaptive and automatic filtering may be limited to parameters and information within a selected conversation pattern or be applied to across conversation patterns allowing the automatic selection and presentation of different conversation patterns to the present conversation as it progresses and changes. In various embodiments CIAS may include a conversation pattern matching software module configured to continuously match a present conversation as it progresses with a bank of stored conversation patterns to present and or apply the most relevant conversation patterns to the participants in the current conversation.

In various embodiments a conversation with structured outcome having action items decisions informational tips and the like as described above may effectively be or become part of a larger project. In this context the results or outcomes of such a conversation may not be merely an end to the conversation but the start of a new process in a related and or independent system. A number of participant in a social conversation may produce ideas decisions and or actions that need to be followed up using other systems techniques and or people by triggering or starting a related process in an external system or organization relative to the conversation. For example a social conversation may result in the decision or action item that a company needs to purchase some equipment or software for better performing a project. Such an outcome may be directed to trigger the workflow management system and or STMS and CRM to continue the process of purchasing such equipment or software as part of purchasing workflow or a project implementation workflow.

In various embodiments particularly in a corporate or enterprise setting access to various projects and related materials may often be controlled through enterprise level authorization mechanisms such as permissions associated with files access lists of people authorized to access various resources permission tokens and the like. In such environments CIAS may provide facilities and interfaces for defining or setting new permissions creating access lists or provide other types of authorization for participation in a conversation assigning or accepting tasks and actions or allowing other systems such as workflow management system STMS CRM to be triggered by the conversation.

In other various embodiments the boundaries of authorizations and permissions may also be set. For example on a social network authorization may be set so that there may be fewer or no permissions required to participate but if the actions and tasks extend to other enterprise systems such as STMS or CRM then more restrictive permissions may be needed to participate. Thus permission levels may be different depending on the systems with which a user interacts. With such an arrangement the security of data and other resources belonging to an organization or enterprise are better protected from indirect access through a social networking conversation.

In various embodiments once a conversation ends and appropriate actions have been assigned decisions made and structured outcomes achieved it may be desirable to save the conversation data and or generate a conversation pattern from the relevant data and statistics associated with the conversation. In various embodiments the participants or moderator or system administrator may explicitly conclude the conversation using a menu item Conclude Conversation and then use Save Conversation menu item to generate and store a conversation pattern based on the concluded conversation. In other embodiments the CIAS may detect the end of the conversation for example via automatic detection of predetermined outcomes or inactivity in the conversation for a predetermined period of time or the like and close down the conversation without direct user instructions or commands.

In various embodiments appropriate software modules associated with CIAS may be used to implement concluding saving and searching for conversations. In some embodiments such software modules may be an integral part of the CIAS while in other embodiments the software modules may be separate but designed to work with CIAS such as DLL Dynamic Link Library web service or independent software applications with exposed API Application Programming Interface for use by CIAS. For example a termination software module may be used to close the conversation stop participants from posting to the conversation thread providing termination messages to the users releasing computing facilities such as memory and computing threads and the like.

Similarly a conversation pattern generator software module may be used to create a conversation pattern based on one or more of subject content summary of contents participants organization involved project process action sequence of actions outcomes results statistical parameters such as frequencies of remarks and various actions and decisions among others date of conversation length of conversation and any other parameters information or meta data which may be useful in defining or characterizing a conversation pattern for at least the purpose of applying the pattern to future conversations or any other useful purposes such as generating statistics and metadata about a large number of separate conversations in an organization on a subject among particular participants and the like.

In various embodiments a conversation pattern search software module may be used to search for conversation patterns based on various criteria. The search criteria may be substantially similar to the filtering criteria for listing the relevant conversation patterns. Such search and or filtering criteria for a new or current conversation may include subject participants organizations involved or represented actions defined decisions desired outcomes or results statistical parameters such as number and average length of remarks metadata such as date of conversation and geographic areas of participants and any other criteria suitable for matching potentially unrelated but similar conversations which have common characteristics with respect to some aspect of the conversation such as the criteria describe above.

In various embodiments the conversation pattern including its associated data and metadata may be stored in a local or remote permanent storage facility such as databases disk tape or optical archives and the like.

Changes can be made to the claimed invention in light of the above Detailed Description. While the above description details certain embodiments of the invention and describes the best mode contemplated no matter how detailed the above appears in text the claimed invention can be practiced in many ways. Details of the system may vary considerably in its implementation details while still being encompassed by the claimed invention disclosed herein.

Particular terminology used when describing certain features or aspects of the disclosure should not be taken to imply that the terminology is being redefined herein to be restricted to any specific characteristics features or aspects of the disclosure with which that terminology is associated. In general the terms used in the following claims should not be construed to limit the claimed invention to the specific embodiments disclosed in the specification unless the above Detailed Description section explicitly defines such terms. Accordingly the actual scope of the claimed invention encompasses not only the disclosed embodiments but also all equivalent ways of practicing or implementing the claimed invention.

It will be understood by those within the art that in general terms used herein and especially in the appended claims e.g. bodies of the appended claims are generally intended as open terms e.g. the term including should be interpreted as including but not limited to the term having should be interpreted as having at least the term includes should be interpreted as includes but is not limited to etc. . It will be further understood by those within the art that if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is intended such an intent will be explicitly recited in the claim and in the absence of such recitation no such intent is present. For example as an aid to understanding the following appended claims may contain usage of the introductory phrases at least one and one or more to introduce claim recitations. However the use of such phrases should not be construed to imply that the introduction of a claim recitation by the indefinite articles a or an limits any particular claim containing such introduced claim recitation to inventions containing only one such recitation even when the same claim includes the introductory phrases one or more or at least one and indefinite articles such as a or an e.g. a and or an should typically be interpreted to mean at least one or one or more the same holds true for the use of definite articles used to introduce claim recitations. In addition even if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is explicitly recited those skilled in the art will recognize that such recitation should typically be interpreted to mean at least the recited number e.g. the bare recitation of two recitations without other modifiers typically means at least two recitations or two or more recitations . Furthermore in those instances where a convention analogous to at least one of A B and C etc. is used in general such a construction is intended in the sense one having skill in the art would understand the convention e.g. a system having at least one of A B and C would include but not be limited to systems that have A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together and or A B and C together etc. . In those instances where a convention analogous to at least one of A B or C etc. is used in general such a construction is intended in the sense one having skill in the art would understand the convention e.g. a system having at least one of A B or C would include but not be limited to systems that have A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together and or A B and C together etc. . It will be further understood by those within the art that virtually any disjunctive word and or phrase presenting two or more alternative terms whether in the description claims or drawings should be understood to contemplate the possibilities of including one of the terms either of the terms or both terms. For example the phrase A or B will be understood to include the possibilities of A or B or A and B. 

The above specification examples and data provide a complete description of the manufacture and use of the claimed invention. Since many embodiments of the claimed invention can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosure the invention resides in the claims hereinafter appended. It is further understood that this disclosure is not limited to the disclosed embodiments but is intended to cover various arrangements included within the spirit and scope of the broadest interpretation so as to encompass all such modifications and equivalent arrangements.

