---

title: Majority rule selection of media content
abstract: A mobile device may be registered to participate in selection of television programming for presentation by a display device external the mobile device. An indication of selection of particular television programming for presentation by a display device may be received from the mobile device. A determination may be made, based on the indication of selection, whether a collective indication of selection tally of the particular television programming is greater than a collective indication of selection tally of other television programming. The particular television programming may be output for presentation by the display device when the particular television programming has a collective indication of selection tally greater than a collective indication of selection tally of other television programming.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09621960&OS=09621960&RS=09621960
owner: ECHOSTAR TECHNOLOGIES L.L.C.
number: 09621960
owner_city: Englewood
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130313
---
In some social or public environments such as an airport for example there may be a number of televisions that are tuned to particular programming such as a newscast. In this example it may be not be uncommon that at least a portion of the viewing audience is interested in programming other than that being presented on the particular channel.

In an aspect a computer implemented method for enabling a mobile device to participate in selection of television programming for presentation by a display device external the mobile device is disclosed. The method may include determining based on the indication of selection whether a collective indication of selection tally of the particular television programming is greater than a collective indication of selection tally of other television programming. The method may include outputting the particular television programming for presentation by the display device when the particular television programming has a collective indication of selection tally greater than a collective indication of selection tally of other television programming.

In an aspect a system including one or more processors and a memory communicatively coupled with and readable by the one or more processors is disclosed. The memory may have stored therein processor readable instructions which when executed by the one or more processors cause the one or more processors to register a mobile device to participate in selection of television programming for presentation by a display device. The memory may have stored therein processor readable instructions which when executed by the one or more processors cause the one or more processors to identify receipt of an indication from the mobile device of selection of particular television programming for presentation by the display device. The memory may have stored therein processor readable instructions which when executed by the one or more processors cause the one or more processors to determine based on the indication of selection whether a collective indication of selection tally of the particular television programming is greater than a collective indication of selection tally of other television programming. The memory may have stored therein processor readable instructions which when executed by the one or more processors cause the one or more processors to output the particular television programming for presentation by the display device when the particular television programming has a collective indication of selection tally greater than a collective indication of selection tally of other television programming.

In an aspect a non transitory processor readable medium comprising processor readable instructions is disclosed. The processor readable instructions may be configured to cause one or more processors to register a mobile device to participate in selection of television programming for presentation by a display device external the mobile device. The processor readable instructions may be configured to cause one or more processors to identify an indication of selection of particular television programming for presentation by the display device received from the mobile device. The processor readable instructions may be configured to cause one or more processors to determine based on the indication of selection whether a collective indication of selection tally of the particular television programming is greater than a collective indication of selection tally of other television programming. The processor readable instructions may be configured to cause one or more processors to output the particular television programming for presentation by the display device when the particular television programming has a collective indication of selection tally greater than a collective indication of selection tally of other television programming.

The present disclosure is directed towards enabling a majority of a group of television viewers to control what type of programming is currently being output for presentation by a display device. Such an implementation may for example be likened to a democratic process for choosing particular programming for display. Although described in the context of a satellite based content distribution system the various aspects of the present disclosure may generally be applicable to any scenario in which it is desirable to enable individuals within a group to participate in selection and consumption of media content. For example referring now to a first example method is shown in accordance with the present disclosure. In particular the method as shown in and its corresponding description may demonstrate a first example scenario in which a particular individual is enabled to participate in selection of television programming for viewing in a public or social environment. The example method as described may be performed on or by a computing system or device such as a television receiver. An example of such a computing system or device is discussed below in connection with at least .

The method may include receiving module by a television receiver from a mobile device a request to join a majority rule television programming selection process. For example a particular individual may enter a social or public environment such as a sports bar where there may be one or more televisions that are tuned to particular programming such as a particular football game. The individual may have a mobile device such as a smartphone on their person. The mobile device may be configured to interact with the television receiver to enable the individual to control or have input as to what type of programming is currently being output by the television receiver to a television for presentation by the television. For example when the individual and the mobile device is within a predetermined distance from the television receiver such as within a radius of about 20 30 meters for example the mobile device and the television receiver may establish a communication link and the television receiver may receive a request from the mobile device to enroll register enlist etc. the mobile device and the individual to join the majority rule television programming selection process. This may enable the individual to use the mobile device to have input as to what type of programming is currently being output by the television receiver to the television for presentation by the television.

For example the method may further include sending module by the television receiver to the mobile device a list or listing of television programming currently available for viewing. In general currently available television programming may refer to recorded content or live content. In the present example content of the listing may be similar to that which may be displayed in an EPG Electronic Programming Guide . For example the list may at least present various information related to television channels and the timing of programs or programming appearing on such television channels. For example the listing may display channel information associated with a channel 2009 where a football game Broncos vs. Ravens may be listed as scheduled to appear on the channel 2009 during a particular time period 1 4 30 PM of a particular day Jan. 16 2013 see e.g. . For the sake of example the list may further display channel information associated with a channel 2012 where a football game Packers vs. 49ers may be listed as scheduled to appear on the channel 2012 during the particular time period 1 4 30 PM of the particular day Jan. 16 2013 see e.g. . Other embodiments are possible.

Continuing with the present example assuming that a current time is sometime during the particular time period 1 4 30 PM of the particular day Jan. 16 2013 the television receiver may send to the mobile device a listing that when displayed by the mobile device at least designates or specifies that the Broncos vs. Ravens game and the Packers vs. 49ers game are currently available for viewing. In some instances it may be that one of these football games is currently being output by the television receiver to the television for presentation by the television. For example the Broncos vs. Ravens game may be currently playing on one or more televisions of or within the sports bar. However it may be that the particular individual after entering the sports bar is more interested in watching the Packers vs. 49ers game on the television because the individual may be a Green Bay Packers fan for example. In accordance with the present disclosure at least the television receiver and the mobile device together may be configured to enable to the individual to cast a vote and have input as to whether the television s and or television receiver of the sports bar is tuned to the Broncos vs. Ravens game or the Packers vs. 49ers game.

For example the method may further include receiving module by the television receiver from the mobile device input associated with selection of particular programming preferred for viewing by the particular individual. For example the individual may navigate the listing as received by the television receiver module and presented by the mobile device and interact with the list to select the Packers vs. 49ers game as preferred programming for viewing. An example of such an interaction with a mobile device is described in further detail below in connection with at least . Upon selection of the Packers vs. 49ers game the mobile device may send to the television receiver an indication that represents the selection of the Packers vs. 49ers game by the individual. Such an implementation may be likened to a cast vote by the particular individual in favor of watching the Packers vs. 49ers game on the television. In accordance with the present disclosure the television receiver may take into account the cast vote by the particular individual and determine whether a majority of individuals taking part in the majority rule television programming selection process are in favor of watching the Packers vs. 49ers game. If so the television receiver may automatically or in response to input by an authorized individual e.g. an individual in the majority change tuning such that the Packers vs. 49ers game corresponds to programming currently being output by the television receiver to the television for presentation by the television assuming that the Broncos vs. Ravens game is currently output by the television receiver to the television for presentation by the television.

For example the method may further include identifying module by the television receiver particular programming of currently available programming that is majority rule programming. Majority rule programming may refer to programming having a greatest number of individuals in favor of watching the same. For example upon receiving input associated with selection of programming preferred for viewing by the particular individual see module the television receiver may tally the vote and determine based on an updated tally which programming of currently available programming has the greatest number of individuals in favor of watching the same. For example and assuming for simplicity that the only currently available programming is the Broncos vs. Ravens game and the Packers vs. 49ers game the television receiver may determine that five 5 individuals are in favor of watching the Broncos vs. Ravens game and that six 6 individuals are in favor of watching the Packers vs. 49ers game. In this example the vote by the particular individual in favor of watching the Packers vs. 49ers game tipped the scales such the Packers vs. 49ers game has the majority vote and may be considered the majority rule programming. In accordance with the present disclosure and continuing with the example scenario the television receiver may take into account this new majority rule programming and change tuning from the Broncos vs. Ravens game such that the Packers vs. 49ers game corresponds to programming currently being output by the television receiver to the television for presentation by the television.

For example the method may further include tuning module by the television receiver the television receiver from a channel associated with first programming to a channel associated with majority rule programming. For example the television receiver may change tuning from the Broncos vs. Ravens game to the Packers vs. 49ers game such that the Packers vs. 49ers game corresponds to programming currently being output by the television receiver to the television for presentation by the television. As mentioned above this may in one embodiment be implemented automatically by the television receiver without further user input upon identification of majority rule programming see module . In other embodiments the television receiver may configure itself such that an authorized individual such as an individual in the majority may use their mobile device to switch programming from the Broncos vs. Ravens game to the Packers vs. 49ers game. Here the television receiver may further configure itself such that an unauthorized individual such as an individual in the minority may not use their mobile device to switch programming from the Broncos vs. Ravens game to the Packers vs. 49ers game. For example an individual in the minority may attempt to change the channel back to the Broncos vs. Ravens game but the television receiver may not respond to the command. Other embodiments are possible.

Such an implementation as described in connection with may be beneficial and or advantageous in many respects. For example it may be possible that a particular group of friends come together and collectively decide that they would like to go to the sports bar discussed above to watch the Packers vs. 49ers game. In many instances it may be that the friends arrive at the sports bar only to find that they do not have control or input as to what is being displayed on a television s for viewing. For example the television s may be tuned to the Broncos vs. Ravens game and staff or servers of the sports bar may be too busy or unwilling to change the channel to the Packers vs. 49ers game. Further there may be a number of Broncos fans in the sports bar who may object to changing the channel from the Broncos vs. Ravens game to the Packers vs. 49ers game. In accordance with the present disclosure however the particular group of friends may enter the sports bar and have control or input as to what type of programming is currently being displayed by the television s . Among other things this may be a powerful marketing device for the sports bar. For example the sports bar may advertise that large groups who frequent or enter the sports bar may by virtue of their numbers potentially have control over what is being displayed by one or more televisions within the sports bar. The sports bar may benefit from increased sales due to large numbers of patrons frequenting the sports bar. The large numbers of patrons may benefit due to being able to go out into a social environment with friends colleagues etc. and still be able to watch programming that they may be interested in.

Further scenarios and beneficial aspects associated with enabling a majority of a group of television viewers to control what type of programming is currently being output for presentation by a display device may be understood in light of the following description in connection with .

For example referring now to an example media content distribution system is shown in which aspects of the present disclosure may be implemented. For brevity the system is depicted in a simplified and conceptual form and may generally include more or fewer systems devices networks and or other components as desired. Further number and type of features or elements incorporated within the system may or may not be implementation specific and at least some of the aspects of the system may be similar to a cable television distribution system an IPTV Internet Protocol Television content distribution system and or any other type of media or content distribution system.

The example system may include a service provider a satellite uplink a plurality of orbiting e.g. geosynchronous satellites a satellite dish a PTR Primary Television Receiver a plurality of STRs Secondary Television Receivers a plurality of televisions a plurality of computing devices and at least one social network server . In the present example the PTR may at least include a content management module . The content management module may in one aspect be configured for enabling a majority of a group of television viewers to control what type of programming is currently being output for presentation by a display device as discussed further below.

The system may also include at least one network that establishes a bi directional communication path for data transfer between and among the PTR STRs televisions computing devices and social network server of the example system . In some embodiments the network may further establish a bi directional communication path not shown for data transfer between the PTR and the service provider . The network is intended to represent any number of terrestrial and or non terrestrial network features or elements. For example the network may incorporate or exhibit any number of features or elements of various wireless and or hardwired packet based communication networks such as for example a WAN Wide Area Network network a HAN Home Area Network network a LAN Local Area Network network a WLAN Wireless Local Area Network network the Internet a cellular communications network and or any other type of communication network s configured such that data may be transferred between and among respective elements of the example system .

The PTR and the STRs as described throughout may generally be any type of television receiver such as a STB Set Top Box for example. In another example the PTR and the STRs may exhibit functionality integrated as part of or into a television a DVR a computer such as a tablet computing device or any other computing system or device as well as variations thereof. Further the PTR and the network together with the STRs televisions and possible computing devices may form at least a portion of a particular home computing network and may each be respectively configured so as to enable communications in accordance with any particular communication protocol s and or standard s including for example TCP IP Transmission Control Protocol Internet Protocol DLNA DTCP IP Digital Living Network Alliance Digital Transmission Copy Protection over Internet Protocol HDMI HDCP High Definition Multimedia Interface High bandwidth Digital Content Protection etc. Still other embodiments are possible.

For example the PTR and the network together with the STRs televisions and possible computing devices may form at least a portion of a computing network other than a home computing network such as a network associated with a particular social or public establishment such as a sports bar airport physician s office government office etc. In such an implementation the respective elements of the example system may each be respectively configured so as to enable communications in accordance with any particular communication protocol s and or standard s .

In practice the satellites may each be configured to receive uplink signals from the satellite uplink . In this example the uplink signals may contain one or more transponder streams of particular data or content such as particular television channel that is supplied by the service provider . For example each of the respective uplink signals may contain various media content such a plurality of encoded HD High Definition television channels various SD Standard Definition television channels on demand programming programming information and or any other content in the form of at least one transponder stream and in accordance with an allotted carrier frequency and bandwidth. In this example different media content may be carried using different ones of the satellites . Further different media content may be carried using different transponders of a particular satellite e.g. satellite thus such media content may be transmitted at different frequencies and or different frequency ranges. For example a first and second television channel may be carried on a first carrier frequency over a first transponder of satellite and a third fourth and fifth television channel may be carried on second carrier frequency over a first transponder of satellite or the third fourth and fifth television channel may be carried on a second carrier frequency over a second transponder of satellite and etc.

The satellites may further be configured to relay the uplink signals to the satellite dish as downlink signals . Similar to the uplink signals each of the downlink signals may contain one or more transponder streams of particular data or content such as various encoded and or at least partially electronically scrambled television channels on demand programming etc. in accordance with an allotted carrier frequency and bandwidth. The downlink signals however may not necessarily contain the same or similar content as a corresponding one of the uplink signals . For example the uplink signal may include a first transponder stream containing at least a first group or grouping of television channels and the downlink signal may include a second transponder stream containing at least a second different group or grouping of television channels. In other examples the first and second group of television channels may have one or more television channels in common. In sum there may be varying degrees of correlation between the uplink signals and the downlink signals both in terms of content and underlying characteristics.

Continuing with the example implementation scenario the satellite dish may be provided for use to receive television channels e.g. on a subscription basis provided by the service provider satellite uplink and or satellites . For example the satellite dish may be configured to receive particular transponder streams or downlink signals from one or more of the satellites . Based on the characteristics of the PTR and or satellite dish however it may only be possible to capture transponder streams from a limited number of transponders concurrently. For example a tuner of the PTR may only be able to tune to a single transponder stream from a transponder of a single satellite such as satellite at a time.

Additionally the PTR which is communicatively coupled to the satellite dish may subsequently select via tuner decode and relay particular transponder streams to the television for display thereon see e.g. and associated description . For example the satellite dish and the PTR may respectively be configured to receive decode and relay at least one premium HD formatted television channel to the television . Programming or content associated with the HD channel may generally be presented live or from a recording as previously stored on by or at the PTR . In this example the HD channel may be output to the television in accordance with the HDMI HDCP content protection technologies. Other embodiments are possible. For example in some embodiments the HD channel may be output to the television in accordance with the MoCA Multimedia over Coax Alliance home entertainment networking standard. Still other embodiments are possible.

Further the PTR may select via tuner decode and relay particular transponder streams to one or both of the STRs which may in turn relay particular transponder streams to a corresponding one of the television and the television for display thereon. For example the satellite dish and the PTR may respectively be configured to receive decode and relay at least one television channel to the television by way of the STR . Similar to the above example the television channel may generally be presented live or from a recording as previously stored on the PTR and may be output to the television by way of the STR in accordance with a particular content protection technology and or networking standard. Other embodiments are possible.

Still further the satellite dish and the PTR may respectively be configured to receive decode and relay at least one premium television channel to one or both of the computing devices . Similar to the above examples the television channel may generally be presented live or from a recording as previously stored on the PTR and may be output to one or both of the computing devices in accordance with a particular content protection technology and or networking standard. Other embodiments are possible.

Referring now to aspects of the example system of are shown in further detail. In particular the PTR may be configured to output an interactive listing to and for presentation by at least the computing device of . The computing device may at least include or exhibit a multi touch display . In the present example the listing may present various information related to television channels and the timing of programs or programming appearing on such television channels such as programs or programming as received from one or more of the satellites . For example the listing may display channel information associated with a channel 2009 where a football game Broncos vs. Ravens may be listed as scheduled to appear on the channel 2009 during a particular time period 1 4 30 PM of a particular day Jan. 16 2013. The listing may further display channel information associated with a channel 2012 where a football game Packers vs. 49ers may be listed as scheduled to appear on the channel 2012 during the particular time period 1 4 30 PM of the particular day Jan. 16 2013. Other embodiments are possible. For example more or fewer programs or programming may be listed within the listing . Further programming listed within the listing may correspond to recorded content or live content. Still other embodiments are possible.

In the example of and assuming that a current time is sometime during the time period 1 4 30 PM of the particular day Jan. 16 2013 a user may interact with the listing to select the Packers vs. 49ers game as preferred programming for viewing as part of a majority rule television programming selection process such as described above in connection with . For example a user may touch or tap a cell or block within the listing associated with the Packers vs. 49ers game to select this game as preferred program for viewing indicated by light stipple shading in . The computing device may then send by wireless communication channel for example to the PTR an indication that represents the selection by the particular individual of the Packers vs. 49ers game as preferred programming. An example of such a communication between the computing device and the PTR is described below in connection with at least .

Referring now to a simplified block diagram of the PTR of is shown in accordance with the present disclosure. In some embodiments at least one of the STRs may be configured in a manner similar to that of the PTR . In other embodiments at least one of the STRs may be configured to exhibit a reduced functionality as compared to the PTR and may depend at least to a certain degree on the PTR to implement certain features or functionality. In this example the STRs may be referred to as a thin client. 

For brevity the PTR is depicted in a simplified and conceptual form and may generally include more or fewer elements or components as desired in accordance with the present disclosure. For example the PTR is shown in to include the content management module as mentioned above in connection with . Additionally although not explicitly shown in the PTR may include one or more logical modules configured to implement a television steaming media functionality that encodes video into a particular format for transmission over the Internet such as to allow users to remotely view and control a home cable satellite or personal video recorder system from an Internet enabled computer with a broadband Internet connection. The Slingbox by Sling Media Inc. of Foster City Calif. is one example of a product that implements such a functionality. Additionally the PTR may be configured to include any number of other various components or logical modules that are implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof and such components or logical modules may or may not be implementation specific.

In some embodiments the PTR and or the STRs comprises of a STB. In addition to being in the form of an STB at least the PTR may be incorporated into another device such as the television as shown in . For example the television may have an integrated television receiver that does not involve an external STB being coupled with the television . A STB may contain some or all of the components of the PTR and or may be able to perform some or all of the functions of the PTR . Accordingly instances in this document referring to a STB and steps being performed by a STB may also be performed more generally by the PTR and or STRs 

Referring still to the PTR may include the content management module as shown in at least one processor including a central processor and a control processor plurality of tuners at least one network interface at least one non transitory computer readable storage medium at least one EPG database at least one television interface at least one NIT Networking Information Table at least one DVR database at least one user interface at least one PID filter at least one smart card at least one descrambling engine at least one PMT Program Map Table and at least one decoder . In other embodiments of the PTR fewer or greater numbers of components may be present. Further functionality of one or more components may be combined for example functions of the descrambling engine may be performed by the central processor . Still further functionality of components may be spread among additional components. For example the PID filter may be handled by hardware and or software separate from the PMT .

The processor may include one or more specialized and or general purpose processors configured to perform processes such as tuning to a particular channel accessing and displaying EPG information from the EPG database and or receiving and processing input from a user. For example processor may include one or more processors dedicated to decoding video signals from a particular format such as MPEG Moving Picture Experts Group for output and display on a television and for performing decryption.

The control processor may communicate with the central processor . The control processor may control the recording of television channels based on timers stored in the DVR database . The control processor may initiate recording of a television channel by sending a record command along with an indication of the television channel to be recorded to the central processor . The control processor may not send a second record command when additional recording is to begin at the same time until an acknowledgement that recording of the first television channel has successfully been received and initiated by the central processor . The control processor may also provide commands to the central processor when recording of a television channel is to cease. In addition to providing commands relating to the recording of television channels the control processor may provide commands to the central processor that indicate television channels to be output to the decoder for output to a presentation device such as the television for example.

The control processor may also communicate with the network interface and the user interface . The control processor may handle in coming data from the network interface and the user interface . Additionally the control processor may be configured to output data via the network interface .

The tuners may be used to tune to television channels such as television channels transmitted via satellite or cable such as satellites . Each respective one of the tuner may be capable of receiving and processing a single stream of data from a satellite transponder or a cable RF channel at a given time. As such a single tuner may tune to a single transponder or for a cable network a single cable RF channel. Additionally one tuner e.g. tuner may be used to tune to a television channel on a first transponder stream for display using a television while another tuner e.g. tuner may be used to tune to a television channel on a second transponder for recording and viewing at some other time. Still another tuner e.g. tuner may be used to check various television channels to determine if they are available or not. If multiple television channels transmitted on the same transponder stream are desired a particular tuner e.g. tuner may be used to receive the signal containing the multiple television channels for presentation and or recording. The tuners may receive commands from the central processor . Such commands may instruct the tuners which frequencies are to be used for tuning.

The network interface may be used to communicate via an alternate communication channel with a television service provider. For example the primary communication channel may be via satellite which may be unidirectional to the STB and the alternate communication channel which may be bidirectional may be via a network such as the Internet. The PTR may be able to communicate with the service provider of via a network such as the Internet. This communication may be bidirectional. For example data may be transmitted from the PTR to the service provider and from the service provider to the PTR . The network interface may be configured to communicate via one or more networks such as the Internet to communicate with the service provider . Information may be transmitted and or received via the network interface .

The storage medium may represent a non transitory computer readable storage medium. The storage medium may include memory and or a hard drive. The storage medium may be used to store information received from one or more satellites and or information received via the network interface . The storage medium may store information related to the EPG database the NIT and or the DVR database . Recorded television programs may be stored using the storage medium . The storage medium may be partitioned or otherwise divided such that predefined amounts of the storage medium are devoted to storage of omnibus channel files and user selected television programs.

The EPG database may store information related to television channels and the timing of programs appearing on such television channels. The EPG database may be stored using the storage medium which may be a hard drive. Information from the EPG database may be used to inform users of what television channels or programs are popular and or provide recommendations to the user. Information from the EPG database may provide the user with a visual interface displayed by a television that allows a user to browse and select television channels and or television programs for viewing and or recording. Information used to populate the EPG database may be received via the network interface and or via satellites such as satellites of via the tuners . For instance updates to the EPG database may be received periodically via satellite. The EPG database may serve as an interface for a user to control DVR functions of the PTR and or to enable viewing and or recording of multiple television channels simultaneously.

In addition to being used to provide users with information about scheduled programming information from the EPG database may be used to determine when television programs begin and end for the purposes of recording. For instance when a channel specific file is recorded that contains multiple television channels the start and end of time of specific television programs within the channel specific file may be based on the start and end times indicated in the EPG database . Other data may be stored within the EPG database that may be useful in managing channel specific files such as series identifiers and episode identifiers which may be used by a television service provider to identify particular television programs.

The decoder may serve to convert encoded video and audio into a format suitable for output to a display device. For instance the decoder may receive MPEG video and audio from the storage medium or the descrambling engine to be output to a television. MPEG video and audio from the storage medium may have been recorded to the DVR database as part of a previously recorded television program. The decoder may convert the MPEG video and audio into a format appropriate to be displayed by a television or other form of display device and audio into a format appropriate to be output from speakers respectively.

The television interface may serve to output a signal to a television or another form of display device in a proper format for display of video and playback of audio. As such the television interface may output one or more television channels stored television programming from the storage medium such as television programs from the DVR database and or information from the EPG database for example to a television for presentation.

The NIT may store information used by the PTR to access various television channels. The NIT may be stored using the storage medium . Information used to populate the NIT may be received via satellite or cable via the tuners and or may be received via the network interface from a service provider. As such information present in the NIT may be periodically updated. The NIT may be locally stored by the PTR using the storage medium . Information that may be present in the NIT may include for example television channel numbers a satellite identifier a frequency identifier a transponder identifier an ECM Entitlement Control Message PID Packet Identifier one or more audio PIDs and a video PID. A second audio PID of a channel may correspond to a SAP Second Audio Program program such as in another language. In some embodiments the NIT may be divided into additional tables. For example rather than the specific audio PIDs and video PIDs being present in the NIT a channel identifier may be present within NIT which may be used to look up the audio PIDs and video PIDs in another table such as the PMT . For example the PMT may store information on audio PIDs and video PIDs for television channels that are transmitted on a transponder frequency.

Table 1 provides a simplified example of the NIT for several television channels. It should be understood that in other embodiments many more television channels may be represented in the NIT . The NIT may be at least periodically updated by a television service provider. As such television channels may be reassigned to different satellites and or transponders and the PTR may be able to handle this reassignment as long as the NIT is updated.

Based on information in the NIT it may be possible to determine the proper satellite and transponder to which to tune for a particular television channel. In some embodiments the NIT may list a particular frequency to which to tune for a particular television channel. Once tuned to the proper satellite transponder frequency the PMT PID may be used to retrieve a program management table that indicates the PIDs for audio and video streams of television channels transmitted by that transponder.

It should be understood that the values provided in Table 1 are for example purposes only. Actual values including how satellites and transponders are identified may vary. Additional information may also be stored in NIT . Additional information on how the NIT as indicated in Table 1 may be used is provided in reference to . The same PID may be reused on different transponders.

A DVR may permit a television channel to be recorded for a period of time. DVR functionality of the PTR may be managed by the control processor . The control processor may coordinate the television channel start time and stop time of when recording of a television channel is to occur. The DVR database may store information related to the recording of television stations. The DVR database may store timers that are used by the control processor to determine when a television channel should be tuned to and its programs recorded to the DVR database . However other embodiments are possible. For example in some embodiments the storage medium may store timers. Timer files may be defined as a daily schedule db.dat file and a gloal timer db.dat file. In general when a new timer is created a new entry may be added into the daily schedule db.dat and gloal timer db.dat files which may include all timer related information such as channel number start time duration etc. Further a limited amount of the storage medium may be devoted to the DVR database . Timers may be set by a service provider and or one or more users of the PTR .

DVR functionality of the control processor may have multiple modes. For example DVR functionality of the control processor may be configured to record individual television programs selected by a user to the DVR database . Using the EPG database a user may select a particular television program. Based on the date time period and television channel indicated by the EPG database the control processor may record the associated television program to the DVR database . In another example the DVR database may be used to store recordings of predefined periods of time on one or more television channels. These predefined periods of time may include one or more television programs. For example primetime on a particular television network may be recorded each weekday night. Further multiple television channels may be recorded for such predefined periods of time. Such recording of television channels for predefined periods of time may be defined by a television service provider e.g. service provider .

As an example of this second mode of DVR functionality a television service provider may configure the PTR to record television programming on multiple predefined television channels for a predefined period of time on predefined dates. For instance a television service provider may configure the PTR such that television programming may be recorded from 7 PM to 10 PM on the NBC ABC CBS and FOX networks each weeknight. When a television program is selected for recording by a user and is also specified for recording by the television service provider the user selection may serve as an indication to save the television program for an extended time beyond the time which the predefined recording would otherwise be saved.

The user interface may include a remote control physically separate from PTR and or one or more buttons on the PTR that allows a user to interact with the PTR . The user interface may be used to select a television channel for viewing view information from the EPG database and or program a timer stored to the DVR database wherein the timer may be used to control the DVR functionality of the control processor

Referring back to tuners television channels received via satellite or cable may contain at least some scrambled data. Packets of audio and video may be scrambled to prevent unauthorized users such as nonsubscribers from receiving television programming without paying the television service provider. When one of the tuners is receiving data from a particular transponder of a satellite the transponder stream may be a series of data packets corresponding to multiple television channels. Each data packet may contain a PID which in combination with the NIT and or the PMT can be determined to be associated with particular television channel. Particular data packets referred to as ECMs may be periodically transmitted. ECMs may be associated with another PID and may be encrypted the PTR may use the smart card to decrypt ECMs. Decryption of an ECM may only be possible when the user e.g. PTR has authorization to access the particular television channel associated with the ECM. When an ECM is determined to correspond to a television channel being stored and or displayed the ECM may be provided to the smart card for decryption.

When the smart card receives an encrypted ECM the smart card may decrypt the ECM to obtain some number of control words. In some embodiments from each ECM received by the smart card two control words are obtained. In some embodiments when the smart card receives an ECM it compares the ECM to the previously received ECM. When the two ECMs match the second ECM is not decrypted because the same control words would be obtained. In other embodiments each ECM received by the smart card is decrypted however when a second ECM matches a first ECM the outputted control words will match thus effectively the second ECM does not affect the control words output by the smart card . The smart card may be permanently part of the PTR or may be configured to be inserted and removed from PTR .

The central processor may be in communication with the tuners and the control processor . The central processor may be configured to receive commands from the control processor . Such commands may indicate when to start stop recording a television channel and or when to start stop causing a television channel to be output to a television. The central processor may control the tuners . The central processor may provide commands to the tuners that instruct the tuners which satellite transponder and or frequency to tune to. From the tuners the central processor may receive transponder streams of packetized data. As previously detailed some or all of these packets may include a PID that identifies the content of the packet.

The central processor may be configured to create at least one PID filter that sorts packets received from the tuners based on the PIDs. When a tuner is initially tuned to a particular frequency such as a particular transponder of a satellite a PID filter may be created based on a PID of PMT data. The PID of PMT data packets may be known because it is stored as part of the NIT . From the PMT data packets the PMT may be constructed by central processor . Table 2 provides an exemplary extract of a PMT. The PMT may be specific to a particular transponder. As such when tuning to a different transponder occurs a new PMT may be created for the different transponder.

Accordingly based on the information present in the PMT the audio and video PIDs for specific television channels may be identified. A television channel may have multiple audio PIDs due to a second audio program which may be in a different language.

It should be understood that the values provided in Table 2 are for example purposes only. Actual values may vary. Additional information or less information may also be stored in the PMT .

The PID filter may be configured to filter data packets based on PIDs. In some embodiments the PID filter is created and executed by central processor . In other embodiments separate hardware may be used to create and execute multiple PID filters. Depending on a television channel selected for recording viewing a PID filter may be created to filter the video and audio packets associated with the television channel based on the PID assignments present in the PMT . For example when a transponder data stream includes multiple television channels data packets corresponding to a television channel that is not desired to be stored or displayed by the user may be ignored by PID filters. As such only data packets corresponding to the one or more television channels desired to be stored and or displayed may be filtered and passed to either the descrambling engine or the smart card other data packets may be ignored. For each television channel a stream of video packets a stream of audio packets one or both of the audio programs and or a stream of ECM packets may be present each stream identified by a PID. In some embodiments a common ECM stream may be used for multiple television channels. Additional data packets corresponding to other information such as updates to the NIT may be appropriately routed by the PID filter . At a given time one or multiple PID filters may be executed by the central processor

The descrambling engine may use the control words output by the smart card in order to descramble video and or audio corresponding to television channels for storage and or presentation. Video and or audio data contained in the transponder data stream received by the tuners may be scrambled. Video and or audio data may be descrambled by descrambling engine using a particular control word. Which control word output by the smart card to be used for successful descrambling may be indicated by a scramble control identifier present within the data packet containing the scrambled video or audio. Descrambled video and or audio may be output by the descrambling engine to the storage medium for storage in the DVR database and or to the decoder for output to a television or other presentation equipment via the television interface .

For simplicity the PTR of has been reduced to a block diagram commonly known parts such as a power supply have been omitted. Further some routing between the various modules of PTR has been illustrated. Such illustrations are for exemplary purposes only. The state of two modules not being directly or indirectly connected does not indicate the modules cannot communicate. Rather connections between modules of the PTR are intended only to indicate possible common data routing. It should be understood that the modules of the PTR may be combined into a fewer number of modules or divided into a greater number of modules. Further the components of the PTR may be part of another device such as built into a television. Also while the PTR may be used to receive store and present television channels received via a satellite it should be understood that similar components may be used to receive store and present television channels via a cable network.

Referring now to a block diagram is shown illustrating particular components of the example system of . More specifically shows the PTR the computing device and the social network server of in further detail. For example the PTR may at least include the content management module and a communication module . The computing device may at least include a mobile application module and an input module . The social network server may at least include a profile module and an API Application Programming Interface module . Other embodiments are possible. For example in some embodiments one or more respective components of the PTR as shown in may be wholly or at least partially located on one or more other components of the example system of . For example one or more respective components of the PTR as shown in may be wholly or at least partially located on a particular one of the STRs . Further one or more respective components of the PTR as shown in may optionally be wholly or at least partially located on a dedicated computing device or server the option indicated in by intermittent line. Such an implementation may free particular computing resources of the PTR such that the PTR may more efficiently perform various other tasks.

There may be a number of ways or methods for enabling a majority of a group of television viewers to control what type of programming is currently being output for presentation by a display device in accordance with the present disclosure. For example the control may be a function of direct user input or a function of indirect user input. An example of direct user input is described above at least in connection with . The direct user input scenario may be further understood in connection with .

For example in practice a particular individual may enter a social or public environment such as a sports bar where there may be one or more televisions that are tuned to particular programming such as a particular baseball game as depicted in with respect to televisions . In this example the individual may have the computing device on their person. The computing device may be configured to interact with the PTR to enable the individual to control or have input as to what type of programming is currently being output by the PTR to one or more of the televisions for presentation thereon. For example when the individual and the computing device is within a predetermined distance from the PTR such as within a radius of about less than 20 meters about less than 30 meters about less than 40 meters about less than 50 meters about less than 100 meters etc. a communication link may be established between the computing device and the PTR . For example the communication module of the PTR may correspond to a Bluetooth or a WiFi radio that may periodically ping for the purpose of discovering computing devices e.g. computing device configured to interact with the PTR and within the predetermined distance from the PTR . Such an implementation may enable the PTR to discover and connect with the computing device when for example the computing device and the individual are at least located within for example a parking lot of the sports bar. Certain hardware and or software resource may be required of a particular computing device to interact with the PTR .

For example the computing device may be configured to include or exhibit a Bluetooth and or a WiFi radio such that a communication may be established with the PTR by a particular communication channel. Additionally the computing device may be configured to include or exhibit a particular mobile application as stored within the mobile application module for example that may enable the particular individual to access and or interact with a listing of television programming currently available for viewing and further select particular programming preferred for viewing in a manner such described above in connection with at least . The access or interaction may be realized by user interaction with the input module of the computing device . For example the input module may be a touch screen a microphone or other type of computer device input mechanism. In the present example the particular mobile application may or may not be a propriety mobile application made available by the sports bar for download by the computing device from an online mobile application store. The particular mobile application may enable the computing device when located within the predetermined distance from the PTR to be matched to the PTR and or a customer account associated with the PTR so that the computing device may be used by the particular individual to join a majority rule television programming selection process. In the example of the content management module of the PTR may serve as a control module to manage discovery of the computing device and control transfer of data between the PTR and the computing device

As may be understood from the preceding discussion the PTR including at least the content management module and the communication module and the computing device including at least the mobile application module and the input module may enable a particular individual to participate in selection of television programming for viewing in a public or social environment in manner. This may be referred to as a direct user input scenario. However control of what type of programming is currently being output for presentation by a display device may also be a function of indirect user input. The indirect user input scenario may be further understood in connection with the social network server in tandem with the PTR and the computing device as shown in .

For example in a first aspect the particular individual may use the computing device to interact with a particular social network service. In general a social network service may refer to an online service platform or site that focuses on facilitating the building of social networks or social relations among people who for example share interests activities backgrounds or real life connections. The social network server as shown in is intended to represent at a high level one or more computing devices configured to implement feature functionality etc. offered by the particular social network service.

In the present example the particular individual may use the computing device to update their own profile as housed within the profile module of the social network server . In general the profile may contain a plurality of information such as ideas activities events interests etc. of and as supplied by at least the particular individual to the profile as part of their interaction with the particular social network service. For example the individual may be a fanatic Green Bay Packers supporter. In this example the profile my contain at least one positive reference to the Green Bay Packers such as a name of a favorite player e.g. My Vote For Favorite NFL Player NAME of the team Green Bay Packers and or any other conceivable bit of information that may in some manner be correlated to the Green Bay Packers football team. Other embodiments are possible.

Continuing with this example in practice the particular individual may enter a social or public environment such as a sports bar where there may be one or more televisions that are tuned to particular programming such as a particular baseball game as depicted in with respect to televisions . In this example the individual may have the computing device on their person. In one aspect the computing device may be configured to interact with the PTR to enable the individual to have direct control or input as to what type of programming is currently being output by the PTR to one or more of the televisions for presentation thereon such as described above. In another aspect the computing device may be configured to interact with the PTR to enable the individual to have indirect control or input as to what type of programming is currently being output by the PTR to one or more of the televisions for presentation thereon. For example when the individual and the computing device is within a predetermined distance from the PTR such as within a radius of 20 30 meters for example a communication link may be established between the computing device and the PTR . For example the communication module of the PTR may correspond to a Bluetooth or a WiFi radio that may periodically or at least intermittently ping for the purpose of discovering computing devices e.g. computing device configured to interact with the PTR and within the predetermined distance from the PTR . As discussed above certain hardware and or software resource may be required of the computing device to interact with the PTR . More specifically the computing device and the PTR may have to be compatibly configured in terms communication capability or capabilities.

For example the computing device may be configured to include or exhibit a Bluetooth and or a WiFi radio such that a communication may be established with the PTR by a particular communication channel. Upon establishing a communication link between the computing device and the PTR the content management module of the PTR as pre authorized by the particular individual may query the social network server to access at least a portion of the profile via the API module of the particular individual as contained within the profile module . For example the content management module of the PTR may query the social network server and determine that the individual is likely a fanatic Green Bay Packers supporter based upon the profile containing at least one reference to the Green Bay Packers as mentioned above. In this example the content management module may leverage this information to enable the individual to indirectly participate in selection of television programming for viewing in a public or social environment.

For example referring now to additionally to a second example method is shown in accordance with the present disclosure. In particular the method as shown in and its corresponding description may demonstrate a second example scenario in which a particular individual is enabled to participate in selection of television programming for viewing in a public or social environment. The example method as described may be performed on or by a computing system or device such as a television receiver. An example of such a computing system or device is discussed below in connection with at least .

The method may include receiving module by a television receiver from a mobile device a request to join a majority rule television programming selection process. For example a particular individual may enter a social or public environment such as a sports bar where there may be one or more televisions that are tuned to particular programming such as a particular football game. The individual may have a mobile device such as a smartphone on their person. The mobile device may be configured to interact with the television receiver to enable the individual to control or have input as to what type of programming is currently being output by the television receiver to a television for presentation by the television. For example when the individual and the mobile device is within a predetermined distance from the television receiver such as within a radius of about 20 30 meters for example the mobile device and the television receiver may establish a communication link and the television receiver may receive a request from the mobile device to enroll register enlist etc. the mobile device and the individual to join the majority rule television programming selection process. This may enable the individual to indirectly have input as to what type of programming is currently being output by the television receiver to the television for presentation by the television.

The method may further include accessing module by the television receiver profile content of at least one social network. The profile content being specific to the individual. For example the television receiver may establish a communication link between the television receiver and at least one social network server to access at least a portion of a user profile of a social network specific to the individual. In general the access may be pre authorized by the individual and may include authorization to access more than one social network such as by selection of a particular setting using a mobile application installed to the mobile device that may or may not be a propriety mobile application made available by a corresponding social or public establishment e.g. sports bar physician s office etc. for download by the mobile device from an online mobile application store. Other embodiments are possible.

The method may further include identifying module by the television receiver from the profile content information corresponding to likes and or dislikes of the individual. For example the individual may be a fanatic Green Bay Packers supporter. In this example the profile may contain under a likes heading or column the phrase Green Bay Packers. In another example the individual may be a detractor of the Denver Broncos. In this example the profile may contain under a dislikes heading or column the phrase Denver Broncos. Other embodiments are possible. For example the profile may contain at least one positive reference to the Green Bay Packers such as the phrase My Vote For Favorite NFL Player NAME of the team Green Bay Packers. In another example the profile may contain at least one critical or disparaging reference to the Denver Broncos such as the phrase My Vote For Least Favorite NFL Player NAME of the team Denver Broncos. Still other embodiments are possible as well. Further type and form or formatting of information within the user specific profile may be dependent on the particular social network. For example a first social network may actually have information itemized according to likes and or dislikes. In this example likes and or dislikes may be directly observed. In another example a second social network may not have information itemized according to likes and or dislikes. In this example likes and or dislikes may be inferred. Still other embodiments are possible.

The method may further include comparing module by the television receiver the user specific likes dislikes see module against a list or listing of television programming currently available for viewing. In general currently available television programming may refer to recorded content or live content. In the present example content of the listing may be similar to that which may be displayed in an EPG. For example the list may at least present various information related to television channels and the timing of programs or programming appearing on such television channels. For example the listing may display channel information associated with a channel 2009 where a football game Broncos vs. Ravens may be listed as scheduled to appear on the channel 2009 during a particular time period 1 4 30 PM of a particular day Jan. 16 2013. The list may further display channel information associated with a channel 2012 where a football game Packers vs. 49ers may be listed as scheduled to appear on the channel 2012 during the particular time period 1 4 30 PM of the particular day Jan. 16 2013. Other embodiments are possible.

The method may further include submitting module by the television receiver or casting a vote on behalf of the individual that represents input associated with selection of particular programming preferred for viewing by the particular individual. For example the television receiver may select the Packers vs. 49ers game as a preferred programming for viewing on behalf of the individual based on at least two factors. A first factor may relate to the football game Packers vs. 49ers being currently available for viewing. A second factor may relate to the television receiver identifying at least one positive reference to the Green Bay Packers within a social network profile associated with the individual in a manner as discussed above. Other embodiments are possible.

The method may further include identifying module by the television receiver particular programming of currently available programming that is majority rule programming. Majority rule programming may refer to programming having a greatest number of individuals in favor of watching the same. For example upon submission of the vote on behalf of the individual that represents input associated with selection of particular programming preferred for viewing by the particular individual see module the television receiver may tally the vote and determine based on an updated tally which programming of currently available programming has the greatest number of individuals in favor of watching the same. For example and assuming for simplicity that the only currently available programming is the Broncos vs. Ravens game and the Packers vs. 49ers game the television receiver may determine that five 5 individuals are in favor of watching the Broncos vs. Ravens game and that six 6 individuals are in favor of watching the Packers vs. 49ers game. In this example the vote submitted by the television receiver on behalf of the particular individual in favor of watching the Packers vs. 49ers game tipped the scales such the Packers vs. 49ers game has the majority vote and may be considered the majority rule programming. In accordance with the present disclosure and continuing with the example scenario the television receiver may take into account this new majority rule programming and change tuning from the Broncos vs. Ravens game such that the Packers vs. 49ers game corresponds to programming currently being output by the television receiver to the television for presentation by the television.

For example the method may further include tuning module by the television receiver the television receiver from a channel associated with first programming to a channel associated with majority rule programming. For example the television receiver may change tuning from the Broncos vs. Ravens game to the Packers vs. 49ers game such that the Packers vs. 49ers game corresponds to programming currently being output by the television receiver to the television for presentation by the television. Other embodiments are possible.

The computer device is shown comprising hardware elements that may be electrically coupled via a bus or may otherwise be in communication as appropriate . The hardware elements may include a processing unit with one or more processors including without limitation one or more general purpose processors and or one or more special purpose processors such as digital signal processing chips graphics acceleration processors and or the like one or more input devices which can include without limitation a remote control a mouse a keyboard and or the like and one or more output devices which can include without limitation a presentation device e.g. television a printer and or the like.

The computer system may further include and or be in communication with one or more non transitory storage devices which can comprise without limitation local and or network accessible storage and or can include without limitation a disk drive a drive array an optical storage device a solid state storage device such as a random access memory and or a read only memory which can be programmable flash updateable and or the like. Such storage devices may be configured to implement any appropriate data stores including without limitation various file systems database structures and or the like.

The computer device might also include a communications subsystem which can include without limitation a modem a network card wireless or wired an infrared communication device a wireless communication device and or a chipset such as a Bluetooth device an 802.11 device a WiFi device a WiMax device cellular communication facilities e.g. GSM WCDMA LTE etc. and or the like. The communications subsystem may permit data to be exchanged with a network such as the network described below to name one example other computer systems and or any other devices described herein. In many embodiments the computer system will further comprise a working memory which may include a random access memory and or a read only memory device as described above.

The computer device also can comprise software elements shown as being currently located within the working memory including an operating system device drivers executable libraries and or other code such as one or more application programs which may comprise computer programs provided by various embodiments and or may be designed to implement methods and or configure systems provided by other embodiments as described herein. By way of example one or more procedures described with respect to the method s discussed above and or system components might be implemented as code and or instructions executable by a computer and or a processor within a computer in an aspect then such code and or instructions can be used to configure and or adapt a general purpose computer or other device to perform one or more operations in accordance with the described methods.

A set of these instructions and or code might be stored on a non transitory computer readable storage medium such as the storage device s described above. In some cases the storage medium might be incorporated within a computer system such as computer system . In other embodiments the storage medium might be separate from a computer system e.g. a removable medium such as flash memory and or provided in an installation package such that the storage medium can be used to program configure and or adapt a general purpose computer with the instructions code stored thereon. These instructions might take the form of executable code which is executable by the computer device and or might take the form of source and or installable code which upon compilation and or installation on the computer system e.g. using any of a variety of generally available compilers installation programs compression decompression utilities etc. then takes the form of executable code.

It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that substantial variations may be made in accordance with specific requirements. For example customized hardware might also be used and or particular elements might be implemented in hardware software including portable software such as applets etc. or both. Further connection to other computing devices such as network input output devices may be employed.

As mentioned above in one aspect some embodiments may employ a computer system such as the computer device to perform methods in accordance with various embodiments of the invention. According to a set of embodiments some or all of the procedures of such methods are performed by the computer system in response to processor executing one or more sequences of one or more instructions which might be incorporated into the operating system and or other code such as an application program contained in the working memory . Such instructions may be read into the working memory from another computer readable medium such as one or more of the storage device s . Merely by way of example execution of the sequences of instructions contained in the working memory may cause the processor s to perform one or more procedures of the methods described herein.

The terms machine readable medium and computer readable medium as used herein may refer to any medium that participates in providing data that causes a machine to operate in a specific fashion. In an embodiment implemented using the computer device various computer readable media might be involved in providing instructions code to processor s for execution and or might be used to store and or carry such instructions code. In many implementations a computer readable medium is a physical and or tangible storage medium. Such a medium may take the form of a non volatile media or volatile media. Non volatile media may include for example optical and or magnetic disks such as the storage device s . Volatile media may include without limitation dynamic memory such as the working memory .

Example forms of physical and or tangible computer readable media may include a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape or any other magnetic medium a CD ROM any other optical medium a RAM a PROM EPROM a FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge or any other medium from which a computer can read instructions and or code.

Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying one or more sequences of one or more instructions to the processor s for execution. By way of example the instructions may initially be carried on a magnetic disk and or optical disc of a remote computer. A remote computer might load the instructions into its dynamic memory and send the instructions as signals over a transmission medium to be received and or executed by the computer system .

The communications subsystem and or components thereof generally will receive signals and the bus then might carry the signals and or the data instructions etc. carried by the signals to the working memory from which the processor s retrieves and executes the instructions. The instructions received by the working memory may optionally be stored on a non transitory storage device either before or after execution by the processor s .

The methods systems and devices discussed above are examples. Various configurations may omit substitute or add various method steps or procedures or system components as appropriate. For instance in alternative configurations the methods may be performed in an order different from that described and or various stages may be added omitted and or combined. Also features described with respect to certain configurations may be combined in various other configurations. Different aspects and elements of the configurations may be combined in a similar manner. Also technology evolves and thus many of the elements are examples and do not limit the scope of the disclosure or claims.

Specific details are given in the description to provide a thorough understanding of example configurations including implementations . However configurations may be practiced without these specific details. For example well known circuits processes algorithms structures and techniques have been shown without unnecessary detail in order to avoid obscuring the configurations. This description provides example configurations only and does not limit the scope applicability or configurations of the claims. Rather the preceding description of the configurations will provide those skilled in the art with an enabling description for implementing described techniques. Various changes may be made in the function and arrangement of elements without departing from the spirit or scope of the disclosure.

Also configurations may be described as a process which is depicted as a flow diagram or block diagram. Although each may describe the operations as a sequential process many of the operations can be performed in parallel or concurrently. In addition the order of the operations may be rearranged. A process may have additional steps not included in the figure. Furthermore examples of the methods may be implemented by hardware software firmware middleware microcode hardware description languages or any combination thereof. When implemented in software firmware middleware or microcode the program code or code segments to perform the necessary tasks may be stored in a non transitory computer readable medium such as a storage medium. Processors may perform the described tasks.

Furthermore the example embodiments described herein may be implemented as logical operations in a computing device in a networked computing system environment. The logical operations may be implemented as i a sequence of computer implemented instructions steps or program modules running on a computing device and ii interconnected logic or hardware modules running within a computing device.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

