---

title: Selectively allocating quality of service to support multiple concurrent sessions for a client device
abstract: In an embodiment, a server mediates a first group communication session with the user equipment (UE) by exchanging media for the first group communication session with the UE over a first link with a first level of Quality of Service (QoS) resources (e.g., either without a guaranteed bit rate (GBR) or a threshold amount of GBR) and exchanging non-media signaling data for the first group communication session with the UE over a signaling link that is either the same or separate from the first link. The server detects, while the UE continues participation in the first group communication session, that the UE has joined or is attempting to join a second group communication session. The server applies a policy for selectively allocating additional QoS resources to supplement the first level of QoS resources to the UE for concurrently supporting both the first and second group communication sessions in response to the detection.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09554389&OS=09554389&RS=09554389
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 09554389
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130828
---
The present Application for Patent claims priority to Provisional Application No. 61 695 740 entitled NETWORK ASSISTED TALK GROUP SCANS filed Aug. 31 2012 by the same inventors as the subject application assigned to the assignee hereof and hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

Wireless communication systems have developed through various generations including a first generation analog wireless phone service 1G a second generation 2G digital wireless phone service including interim 2.5G and 2.75G networks and third generation 3G and fourth generation 4G high speed data Internet capable wireless services. There are presently many different types of wireless communication systems in use including Cellular and Personal Communications Service PCS systems. Examples of known cellular systems include the cellular Analog Advanced Mobile Phone System AMPS and digital cellular systems based on Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Frequency Division Multiple Access FDMA Time Division Multiple Access TDMA the Global System for Mobile access GSM variation of TDMA and newer hybrid digital communication systems using both TDMA and CDMA technologies.

More recently Long Term Evolution LTE has been developed as a wireless communications protocol for wireless communication of high speed data for mobile phones and other data terminals. LTE is based on GSM and includes contributions from various GSM related protocols such as Enhanced Data rates for GSM Evolution EDGE and Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS protocols such as High Speed Packet Access HSPA .

In an embodiment a server mediates a first group communication session with the user equipment UE by exchanging media for the first group communication session with the UE over a first link with a first level of Quality of Service QoS resources e.g. either without a guaranteed bit rate GBR or a threshold amount of GBR and exchanging non media signaling data for the first group communication session with the UE over a signaling link that is either the same or separate from the first link. The server detects while the UE continues participation in the first group communication session that the UE has joined or is attempting to join a second group communication session. The server applies a policy for selectively allocating additional QoS resources to supplement the first level of QoS resources to the UE for concurrently supporting both the first and second group communication sessions in response to the detection.

Aspects of the invention are disclosed in the following description and related drawings directed to specific embodiments of the invention. Alternate embodiments may be devised without departing from the scope of the invention. Additionally well known elements of the invention will not be described in detail or will be omitted so as not to obscure the relevant details of the invention.

The words exemplary and or example are used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any embodiment described herein as exemplary and or example is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments. Likewise the term embodiments of the invention does not require that all embodiments of the invention include the discussed feature advantage or mode of operation.

Further many embodiments are described in terms of sequences of actions to be performed by for example elements of a computing device. It will be recognized that various actions described herein can be performed by specific circuits e.g. application specific integrated circuits ASICs by program instructions being executed by one or more processors or by a combination of both. Additionally these sequence of actions described herein can be considered to be embodied entirely within any form of computer readable storage medium having stored therein a corresponding set of computer instructions that upon execution would cause an associated processor to perform the functionality described herein. Thus the various aspects of the invention may be embodied in a number of different forms all of which have been contemplated to be within the scope of the claimed subject matter. In addition for each of the embodiments described herein the corresponding form of any such embodiments may be described herein as for example logic configured to perform the described action.

A client device referred to herein as a user equipment UE may be mobile or stationary and may communicate with a radio access network RAN . As used herein the term UE may be referred to interchangeably as an access terminal or AT a wireless device a subscriber device a subscriber terminal a subscriber station a user terminal or UT a mobile terminal a mobile station and variations thereof. Generally UEs can communicate with a core network via the RAN and through the core network the UEs can be connected with external networks such as the Internet. Of course other mechanisms of connecting to the core network and or the Internet are also possible for the UEs such as over wired access networks WiFi networks e.g. based on IEEE 802.11 etc. and so on. UEs can be embodied by any of a number of types of devices including but not limited to PC cards compact flash devices external or internal modems wireless or wireline phones and so on. A communication link through which UEs can send signals to the RAN is called an uplink channel e.g. a reverse traffic channel a reverse control channel an access channel etc. . A communication link through which the RAN can send signals to UEs is called a downlink or forward link channel e.g. a paging channel a control channel a broadcast channel a forward traffic channel etc. . As used herein the term traffic channel TCH can refer to either an uplink reverse or downlink forward traffic channel.

Referring to UEs . . . N are configured to communicate with an access network e.g. the RAN an access point etc. over a physical communications interface or layer shown in as air interfaces and or a direct wired connection. The air interfaces and can comply with a given cellular communications protocol e.g. CDMA EVDO eHRPD GSM EDGE W CDMA LTE etc. while the air interface can comply with a wireless IP protocol e.g. IEEE 802.11 . The RAN includes a plurality of access points that serve UEs over air interfaces such as the air interfaces and . The access points in the RAN can be referred to as access nodes or ANs access points or APs base stations or BSs Node Bs eNode Bs and so on. These access points can be terrestrial access points or ground stations or satellite access points. The RAN is configured to connect to a core network that can perform a variety of functions including bridging circuit switched CS calls between UEs served by the RAN and other UEs served by the RAN or a different RAN altogether and can also mediate an exchange of packet switched PS data with external networks such as Internet . The Internet includes a number of routing agents and processing agents not shown in for the sake of convenience . In UE N is shown as connecting to the Internet directly i.e. separate from the core network such as over an Ethernet connection of WiFi or 802.11 based network . The Internet can thereby function to bridge packet switched data communications between UE N and UEs . . . N via the core network . Also shown in is the access point that is separate from the RAN . The access point may be connected to the Internet independent of the core network e.g. via an optical communication system such as FiOS a cable modem etc. . The air interface may serve UE or UE over a local wireless connection such as IEEE 802.11 in an example. UE N is shown as a desktop computer with a wired connection to the Internet such as a direct connection to a modem or router which can correspond to the access point itself in an example e.g. for a WiFi router with both wired and wireless connectivity .

Referring to an application server is shown as connected to the Internet the core network or both. The application server can be implemented as a plurality of structurally separate servers or alternately may correspond to a single server. As will be described below in more detail the application server is configured to support one or more communication services e.g. Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP sessions Push to Talk PTT sessions group communication sessions social networking services etc. for UEs that can connect to the application server via the core network and or the Internet .

Examples of protocol specific implementations for the RAN and the core network are provided below with respect to to help explain the wireless communications system in more detail. In particular the components of the RAN and the core network corresponds to components associated with supporting packet switched PS communications whereby legacy circuit switched CS components may also be present in these networks but any legacy CS specific components are not shown explicitly in .

In the core network includes the above noted SGSN B and potentially a number of other SGSNs as well and a GGSN B. Generally GPRS is a protocol used in GSM for routing IP packets. The GPRS core network e.g. the GGSN B and one or more SGSNs B is the centralized part of the GPRS system and also provides support for W CDMA based 3G access networks. The GPRS core network is an integrated part of the GSM core network i.e. the core network that provides mobility management session management and transport for IP packet services in GSM and W CDMA networks.

The GPRS Tunneling Protocol GTP is the defining IP protocol of the GPRS core network. The GTP is the protocol which allows end users e.g. UEs of a GSM or W CDMA network to move from place to place while continuing to connect to the Internet as if from one location at the GGSN B. This is achieved by transferring the respective UE s data from the UE s current SGSN B to the GGSN B which is handling the respective UE s session.

Three forms of GTP are used by the GPRS core network namely i GTP U ii GTP C and iii GTP GTP Prime . GTP U is used for transfer of user data in separated tunnels for each packet data protocol PDP context. GTP C is used for control signaling e.g. setup and deletion of PDP contexts verification of GSN reach ability updates or modifications such as when a subscriber moves from one SGSN to another etc. . GTP is used for transfer of charging data from GSNs to a charging function.

Referring to the GGSN B acts as an interface between a GPRS backbone network not shown and the Internet . The GGSN B extracts packet data with associated a packet data protocol PDP format e.g. IP or PPP from GPRS packets coming from the SGSN B and sends the packets out on a corresponding packet data network. In the other direction the incoming data packets are directed by the GGSN connected UE to the SGSN B which manages and controls the Radio Access Bearer RAB of a target UE served by the RAN . Thereby the GGSN B stores the current SGSN address of the target UE and its associated profile in a location register e.g. within a PDP context . The GGSN B is responsible for IP address assignment and is the default router for a connected UE. The GGSN B also performs authentication and charging functions.

The SGSN B is representative of one of many SGSNs within the core network in an example. Each SGSN is responsible for the delivery of data packets from and to the UEs within an associated geographical service area. The tasks of the SGSN B includes packet routing and transfer mobility management e.g. attach detach and location management logical link management and authentication and charging functions. The location register of the SGSN B stores location information e.g. current cell current VLR and user profiles e.g. IMSI PDP address es used in the packet data network of all GPRS users registered with the SGSN B for example within one or more PDP contexts for each user or UE. Thus SGSNs B are responsible for i de tunneling downlink GTP packets from the GGSN B ii uplink tunnel IP packets toward the GGSN B iii carrying out mobility management as UEs move between SGSN service areas and iv billing mobile subscribers. As will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art aside from i iv SGSNs configured for GSM EDGE networks have slightly different functionality as compared to SGSNs configured for W CDMA networks.

The RAN e.g. or UTRAN in UMTS system architecture communicates with the SGSN B via a Radio Access Network Application Part RANAP protocol. RANAP operates over a Iu interface Iu ps with a transmission protocol such as Frame Relay or IP. The SGSN B communicates with the GGSN B via a Gn interface which is an IP based interface between SGSN B and other SGSNs not shown and internal GGSNs not shown and uses the GTP protocol defined above e.g. GTP U GTP C GTP etc. . In the embodiment of the Gn between the SGSN B and the GGSN B carries both the GTP C and the GTP U. While not shown in the Gn interface is also used by the Domain Name System DNS . The GGSN B is connected to a Public Data Network PDN not shown and in turn to the Internet via a Gi interface with IP protocols either directly or through a Wireless Application Protocol WAP gateway.

In the core network includes a plurality of Mobility Management Entities MMEs D and D a Home Subscriber Server HSS D a Serving Gateway S GW D a Packet Data Network Gateway P GW D and a Policy and Charging Rules Function PCRF D. Network interfaces between these components the RAN and the Internet are illustrated in and are defined in Table 1 below as follows 

A high level description of the components shown in the RAN and core network of will now be described. However these components are each well known in the art from various 3GPP TS standards and the description contained herein is not intended to be an exhaustive description of all functionalities performed by these components.

Referring to the MMEs D and D are configured to manage the control plane signaling for the EPS bearers. MME functions include Non Access Stratum NAS signaling NAS signaling security Mobility management for inter and intra technology handovers P GW and S GW selection and MME selection for handovers with MME change.

Referring to the S GW D is the gateway that terminates the interface toward the RAN . For each UE associated with the core network for an EPS based system at a given point of time there is a single S GW. The functions of the S GW D for both the GTP based and the Proxy Mobile IPv6 PMIP based S5 S8 include Mobility anchor point Packet routing and forwarding and setting the DiffServ Code Point DSCP based on a QoS Class Identifier QCI of the associated EPS bearer.

Referring to the P GW D is the gateway that terminates the SGi interface toward the Packet Data Network PDN e.g. the Internet . If a UE is accessing multiple PDNs there may be more than one P GW for that UE however a mix of S5 S8 connectivity and Gn Gp connectivity is not typically supported for that UE simultaneously. P GW functions include for both the GTP based S5 S8 Packet filtering by deep packet inspection UE IP address allocation setting the DSCP based on the QCI of the associated EPS bearer accounting for inter operator charging uplink UL and downlink DL bearer binding as defined in 3GPP TS 23.203 UL bearer binding verification as defined in 3GPP TS 23.203. The P GW D provides PDN connectivity to both GSM EDGE Radio Access Network GERAN UTRAN only UEs and E UTRAN capable UEs using any of E UTRAN GERAN or UTRAN. The P GW D provides PDN connectivity to E UTRAN capable UEs using E UTRAN only over the S5 S8 interface.

Referring to the PCRF D is the policy and charging control element of the EPS based core network . In a non roaming scenario there is a single PCRF in the HPLMN associated with a UE s Internet Protocol Connectivity Access Network IP CAN session. The PCRF terminates the Rx interface and the Gx interface. In a roaming scenario with local breakout of traffic there may be two PCRFs associated with a UE s IP CAN session A Home PCRF H PCRF is a PCRF that resides within a HPLMN and a Visited PCRF V PCRF is a PCRF that resides within a visited VPLMN. PCRF is described in more detail in 3GPP TS 23.203 and as such will not be described further for the sake of brevity. In the application server e.g. which can be referred to as the AF in 3GPP terminology is shown as connected to the core network via the Internet or alternatively to the PCRF D directly via an Rx interface. Generally the application server or AF is an element offering applications that use IP bearer resources with the core network e.g. UMTS PS domain GPRS domain resources LTE PS data services . One example of an application function is the Proxy Call Session Control Function P CSCF of the IP Multimedia Subsystem IMS Core Network sub system. The AF uses the Rx reference point to provide session information to the PCRF D. Any other application server offering IP data services over cellular network can also be connected to the PCRF D via the Rx reference point.

In the eHRPD RAN includes a plurality of base transceiver stations BTSs E E and E which are connected to an enhanced BSC eBSC and enhanced PCF ePCF E. The eBSC ePCF E can connect to one of the MMEs D or D within the EPS core network A over an S interface and to an HRPD serving gateway HSGW E over A and or A interfaces for interfacing with other entities in the EPS core network A e.g. the S GW D over an S interface the P GW D over an Sinterface the PCRF D over a Gxa interface a 3GPP AAA server not shown explicitly in over an STa interface etc. . The HSGW E is defined in 3GPP2 to provide the interworking between HRPD networks and EPS LTE networks. As will be appreciated the eHRPD RAN and the HSGW E are configured with interface functionality to EPC LTE networks that is not available in legacy HRPD networks.

Turning back to the eHRPD RAN in addition to interfacing with the EPS LTE network A the eHRPD RAN can also interface with legacy HRPD networks such as HRPD network B. As will be appreciated the HRPD network B is an example implementation of a legacy HRPD network such as the EV DO network from . For example the eBSC ePCF E can interface with an authentication authorization and accounting AAA server E via an A interface or to a PDSN FA E via an A or A interface. The PDSN FA E in turn connects to HA A through which the Internet can be accessed. In certain interfaces e.g. A A H H etc. are not described explicitly but are shown for completeness and would be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art familiar with HRPD or eHRPD.

Referring to it will be appreciated that LTE core networks e.g. and HRPD core networks that interface with eHRPD RANs and HSGWs e.g. can support network initiated Quality of Service QoS e.g. by the P GW GGSN SGSN etc. in certain cases.

While internal components of UEs such as the UEs A and B can be embodied with different hardware configurations a basic high level UE configuration for internal hardware components is shown as platform in . The platform can receive and execute software applications data and or commands transmitted from the RAN that may ultimately come from the core network the Internet and or other remote servers and networks e.g. application server web URLs etc. . The platform can also independently execute locally stored applications without RAN interaction. The platform can include a transceiver operably coupled to an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other processor microprocessor logic circuit or other data processing device. The ASIC or other processor executes the application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident programs in the memory of the wireless device. The memory can be comprised of read only or random access memory RAM and ROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. The platform also can include a local database that can store applications not actively used in memory as well as other data. The local database is typically a flash memory cell but can be any secondary storage device as known in the art such as magnetic media EEPROM optical media tape soft or hard disk or the like.

Accordingly an embodiment of the invention can include a UE e.g. UE A B etc. including the ability to perform the functions described herein. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art the various logic elements can be embodied in discrete elements software modules executed on a processor or any combination of software and hardware to achieve the functionality disclosed herein. For example ASIC memory API and local database may all be used cooperatively to load store and execute the various functions disclosed herein and thus the logic to perform these functions may be distributed over various elements. Alternatively the functionality could be incorporated into one discrete component. Therefore the features of the UEs A and B in are to be considered merely illustrative and the invention is not limited to the illustrated features or arrangement.

The wireless communication between the UEs A and or B and the RAN can be based on different technologies such as CDMA W CDMA time division multiple access TDMA frequency division multiple access FDMA Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing OFDM GSM or other protocols that may be used in a wireless communications network or a data communications network. As discussed in the foregoing and known in the art voice transmission and or data can be transmitted to the UEs from the RAN using a variety of networks and configurations. Accordingly the illustrations provided herein are not intended to limit the embodiments of the invention and are merely to aid in the description of aspects of embodiments of the invention.

Referring to the communication device includes logic configured to receive and or transmit information . In an example if the communication device corresponds to a wireless communications device e.g. UE A or B one of BSs A through A one of Node Bs B through B one of eNodeBs D through D etc. the logic configured to receive and or transmit information can include a wireless communications interface e.g. Bluetooth WiFi 2G CDMA W CDMA 3G 4G LTE etc. such as a wireless transceiver and associated hardware e.g. an RF antenna a MODEM a modulator and or demodulator etc. . In another example the logic configured to receive and or transmit information can correspond to a wired communications interface e.g. a serial connection a USB or Firewire connection an Ethernet connection through which the Internet can be accessed etc. . Thus if the communication device corresponds to some type of network based server e.g. PDSN SGSN GGSN S GW P GW MME HSS PCRF the application etc. the logic configured to receive and or transmit information can correspond to an Ethernet card in an example that connects the network based server to other communication entities via an Ethernet protocol. In a further example the logic configured to receive and or transmit information can include sensory or measurement hardware by which the communication device can monitor its local environment e.g. an accelerometer a temperature sensor a light sensor an antenna for monitoring local RF signals etc. . The logic configured to receive and or transmit information can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to receive and or transmit information to perform its reception and or transmission function s . However the logic configured to receive and or transmit information does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to receive and or transmit information relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to the communication device further includes logic configured to process information . In an example the logic configured to process information can include at least a processor. Example implementations of the type of processing that can be performed by the logic configured to process information includes but is not limited to performing determinations establishing connections making selections between different information options performing evaluations related to data interacting with sensors coupled to the communication device to perform measurement operations converting information from one format to another e.g. between different protocols such as .wmv to .avi etc. and so on. For example the processor included in the logic configured to process information can correspond to a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration. The logic configured to process information can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to process information to perform its processing function s . However the logic configured to process information does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to process information relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to the communication device further includes logic configured to store information . In an example the logic configured to store information can include at least a non transitory memory and associated hardware e.g. a memory controller etc. . For example the non transitory memory included in the logic configured to store information can correspond to RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. The logic configured to store information can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to store information to perform its storage function s . However the logic configured to store information does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to store information relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to the communication device further optionally includes logic configured to present information . In an example the logic configured to present information can include at least an output device and associated hardware. For example the output device can include a video output device e.g. a display screen a port that can carry video information such as USB HDMI etc. an audio output device e.g. speakers a port that can carry audio information such as a microphone jack USB HDMI etc. a vibration device and or any other device by which information can be formatted for output or actually outputted by a user or operator of the communication device . For example if the communication device corresponds to UE A or UE B as shown in the logic configured to present information can include the display A of UE A or the touchscreen display B of UE B. In a further example the logic configured to present information can be omitted for certain communication devices such as network communication devices that do not have a local user e.g. network switches or routers remote servers etc. . The logic configured to present information can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to present information to perform its presentation function s . However the logic configured to present information does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to present information relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to the communication device further optionally includes logic configured to receive local user input . In an example the logic configured to receive local user input can include at least a user input device and associated hardware. For example the user input device can include buttons a touchscreen display a keyboard a camera an audio input device e.g. a microphone or a port that can carry audio information such as a microphone jack etc. and or any other device by which information can be received from a user or operator of the communication device . For example if the communication device corresponds to UE A or UE B as shown in the logic configured to receive local user input can include the keypad A any of the buttons A or B through B the touchscreen display B etc. In a further example the logic configured to receive local user input can be omitted for certain communication devices such as network communication devices that do not have a local user e.g. network switches or routers remote servers etc. . The logic configured to receive local user input can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to receive local user input to perform its input reception function s . However the logic configured to receive local user input does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to receive local user input relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to while the configured logics of through are shown as separate or distinct blocks in it will be appreciated that the hardware and or software by which the respective configured logic performs its functionality can overlap in part. For example any software used to facilitate the functionality of the configured logics of through can be stored in the non transitory memory associated with the logic configured to store information such that the configured logics of through each performs their functionality i.e. in this case software execution based in part upon the operation of software stored by the logic configured to store information . Likewise hardware that is directly associated with one of the configured logics can be borrowed or used by other configured logics from time to time. For example the processor of the logic configured to process information can format data into an appropriate format before being transmitted by the logic configured to receive and or transmit information such that the logic configured to receive and or transmit information performs its functionality i.e. in this case transmission of data based in part upon the operation of hardware i.e. the processor associated with the logic configured to process information .

Generally unless stated otherwise explicitly the phrase logic configured to as used throughout this disclosure is intended to invoke an embodiment that is at least partially implemented with hardware and is not intended to map to software only implementations that are independent of hardware. Also it will be appreciated that the configured logic or logic configured to in the various blocks are not limited to specific logic gates or elements but generally refer to the ability to perform the functionality described herein either via hardware or a combination of hardware and software . Thus the configured logics or logic configured to as illustrated in the various blocks are not necessarily implemented as logic gates or logic elements despite sharing the word logic. Other interactions or cooperation between the logic in the various blocks will become clear to one of ordinary skill in the art from a review of the embodiments described below in more detail.

Sessions that operate over networks such as 1 EV DO in UMTS based W CDMA in LTE in and eHRPD in can be supported on channels e.g. RABs flows etc. for which a guaranteed quality level is reserved which is referred to as Quality of Service QoS . For example establishing a given level of QoS on a particular channel may provide one or more of a minimum guaranteed bit rate GBR on that channel a maximum delay jitter latency bit error rate BER and so on. QoS resources can be reserved or setup for channels associated with real time or streaming communication sessions such as Voice over IP VoIP sessions group communication sessions e.g. PTT sessions etc. online games IP TV and so on to help ensure seamless end to end packet transfer for these sessions.

GBR or QoS EPS bearers in LTE can be associated with a preconfigured QCI for Conversational Voice traffic denoted as QCI which is associated with a specific QoS configuration for the associated GBR EPS bearers. Any VoIP application engaging in VoIP sessions over the LTE core network can invoke QCI . Generally different multimedia services that interact with the LTE core network are assigned different APNs for their operation over the LTE core network. For example IP Multimedia Subsystem IMS applications use an IMS specific APN whereas a non IMS application denoted herein as App can used an App specific APN and so on.

App may correspond to a delay sensitive half duplex VoIP or Push to Talk PTT application whereby App calls are configured to be arbitrated by the application server and for UEs served by LTE networks are allocated QoS resources based on QCI or based upon an application specific QCI configuration denoted as QCI. Each App call is typically allocated a non QoS or low QoS or non GBR EPS or low GBR bearer to handle a signaling flow and a QoS or GBR EPS bearer to handle a media flow for the App call. As used herein a non QoS or non GBR EPS bearer may correspond to a bearer that is not allocated any QoS or GBR or alternatively is allocated a relatively low amount of QoS or GBR e.g. 1 kpbs a GBR that is less than a threshold sufficient to support an audio or video media flow etc. . Thus a description of non Qos or non GBR does not necessarily mean that there is absolutely zero GBR or QoS on the associated bearer for all potential implementations although this is certainly possible. The non QoS or non GBR EPS bearer may alternatively be referred to as a signaling bearer although it is appreciated that the signaling bearer can primarily be dedicated to signaling traffic while still carrying non signaling traffic in certain scenarios. If an App client application on a given UE is already engaged in an App call that App client application will generally automatically reject any newly announced App calls. Alternatively the application server can detect that the App client application is already engaged in an App call and then refrain from announcing any new App calls until the App client application drops out of the existing App call.

Multiple QoS call monitoring such as a talk group scan feature available in Analog Public safety PTT is difficult to implement in packet switched based UEs for e.g. LTE. One reason for this is because to allow the user to monitor multiple QoS calls e.g. PTT calls in LTE the media for each QoS call would typically need to be piggy backed or consolidated onto a single QoS bearer and media for each QoS call would need to be delivered to the target UE over that single QoS bearer where a user of the target UE would decide which call to monitor from an active list of calls. However adding the media to the single QoS bearer in this manner may exceed the allocated bandwidth or GBR for the QoS bearer leading to poor service quality for talk group scan feature.

Accordingly embodiments of the invention are directed to dynamically allocating QoS to multiple QoS calls referred to herein as App calls for a given UE in an LTE network. A high level call flow of an embodiment of the invention is illustrated in .

Referring to a given UE sets up a non GBR EPS bearer for signaling and a GBR EPS bearer for media with a threshold amount of GBR e.g. based on QCI or QCI for a first App call to be arbitrated by the application server . Alternatively the UE may use a single bearer for signaling and media e.g. a shared GBR or non GBR EPS bearer. Thus even though embodiments below reference a non GBR EPS signaling bearer and a GBR EPS media bearer both signaling and media could alternatively be mapped to the same EPS bearer e.g. a single GBR or non GBR EPS bearer in other implementations.

The first App call may be half duplex or full duplex may be originated by the given UE or some other UE and may be a one to one or direct call 1 1 or a one to many or group call. Once the non GBR EPS signaling bearer and the GBR EPS media bearer are established or alternatively a single EPS bearer is used by the UE for both media and signaling the given UE participates in the first App call via the application server using the non GBR EPS signaling bearer and the GBR EPS media bearer or the single EPS bearer for both signaling and media .

At some point during the given UE s participation in the first App call the application server detects a second App call involving the given UE . Similar to the first App call the second App call may be half duplex or full duplex may be originated by the given UE or some other UE and may be a one to one or direct call 1 1 or a one to many or group call. The application server executes a policy to evaluate the relative priorities of the first and second App calls based on one or more priority criteria defined by the policy . As used here the policy refers to a set of rules configured for execution by the application server related to selective resource allocation for one or more App calls. The policy can be configured by a user of the given UE by an operator of the application server and or by a developer of a multimedia application configured to support App calls etc. In the policy defines the priority criteria used to gauge the relative priorities between two App calls and in discussed below the policy also defines available call actions that can be triggered based on the relative priorities after the evaluation. In an example the one or more priority criteria defined by the policy can include i whether the second App call is a new call or an existing call ii whether the second App call is originated by the given UE or by some other UE iii whether the given UE has provided an implicit or explicit indication of a desire to switch between App calls and or iv whether signaling information e.g. an application layer signaling message or packet is received over the non GBR EPS bearer for signaling or the single EPS bearer for both media and signaling that includes an indication of the priorities for the first and or second App call e.g. the given UE may indicate that the second App call has higher priority than the first App call or vice versa or the given UE may identify an absolute priority level for one of the App calls against which the application server can compare with a known priority level of the other App call to determine their relative priorities etc. .

Based on the priority evaluation from the application server executes the policy to selectively i allocate QoS to a GBR EPS media bearer for the second App call ii modify an existing QoS level allocated to the GBR EPS media bearer s for the first and or second App calls or if a single bearer is being used for both signaling and media modify the QoS on the single EPS bearer iii deliver media for the second App call on the GBR EPS media bearer used by the first App call or if a single bearer is being used for both signaling and media deliver the media for the second App call on the single EPS bearer and or iv reject the second App call . In other words the policy executed by the application server can identify wherein a number of bearers e.g. zero if second App call is rejected one if the second App call will be sending its media and signaling over a single EPS bearer two if the second App call will be using different EPS bearers for media and signaling etc. and or a second level of QoS e.g. the QoS on a new GBR EPS media bearer in i an amount of QoS achieved via the QoS level modification in ii etc. for supporting the second App call based on the relative priorities of the first and second App calls e.g. additional examples provided below with respect to Table 3 . In an example if the given UE is switching between concurrently monitored App calls the QoS levels allocated to the respective App calls can be adjusted. In another example if the given UE is merely beginning to monitor the second App call QoS can be allocated to the second App call and so on. Accordingly the given UE sets up and or modifies its QoS allocated to the first and or second App calls via negotiation with the LTE network if necessary . In the case where the second App call is carried on the first App call s GBR EPS media bearer or simply rejected can be optional because the QoS resources do not necessarily change. The given UE then participates in the first and or second App calls based on the QoS allocation from . For example at the given UE may actively participate e.g. receive and playback incoming media and or record and stream outgoing media in the second App call while monitoring receiving media for the first App call or the given UE may actively participate in the first App call while monitoring receiving media for the second App call and so on.

At the application server determines whether to change the QoS allocation for the first and or second App calls. For example the decision at may be based upon whether the given UE has switched its active participation between the first and second App calls whether the given UE has dropped the first and or second App calls and so on. Thus can correspond to a continued execution or re execution of the policy executed at based on updated information for the first and or second App calls.

As will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art is broadly characterized so as to cover various call types e.g. half duplex or full duplex various call origination parties e.g. the given UE can be the call originator or the call target and can occur at various stages during the calls e.g. the operations in can occur for a newly announced second App call or for switching active participation in two concurrently monitored and ongoing App calls . Table 1 below describes a number of operating scenarios referred to as cases and associated QoS allocation adjustments referred to as QoS actions that can occur within the framework of whereby the App client application on the given UE is assumed to be actively participating in the first App call 

Referring to Table 3 above in case 1 the second App call is a new communication session originated by the given UE that is being setup by the application server . Because the given UE is the session originator the application server assumes that the given UE wants to be an active participant in the second App call. Accordingly the application server can allocate the second App call QoS without changing the QoS allocation to the first App call i.e. the aggregate QoS allocated to the given UE is increased as shown in Option 1 the second App call can be allocated a Best Effort BE no explicit QoS guarantee but the second App call will instead be setup using the best available QoS as shown in Option 2 or the second App call can be allocated QoS while reducing the first App call to BE as shown in Option 3 i.e. the aggregate QoS allocated to the given UE is unchanged . Thus the policy executed by the application server can be configured in accordance either any of Options 1 2 or 3 for case 1 in Table 1 in an example.

Referring to Table 3 above in case 2 the second App call is a new communication session originated by another UE i.e. not the given UE that is being setup by the application server . Because the given UE is not the session originator the application server cannot simply assume that the given UE wants to be an active participant in the second App call. Accordingly the application server can allocate the second App call QoS while reducing the first App call to BE as shown in Option 1 i.e. the aggregate QoS allocated to the given UE is unchanged the application server can allocate the second App call QoS without changing the QoS allocation to the first App call i.e. the aggregate QoS allocated to the given UE is increased as shown in Option 2 the second App call can be allocated BE without changing the QoS allocation to the first App call i.e. the aggregate QoS allocated to the given UE is unchanged as shown in Option 3 the second App call is not allocated QoS not even BE and the application server stores the call data for later retrieval by the given UE as shown in Option 4 or the second App call is simply rejected by the application server not announced to the given UE as shown in Option 5. Thus the policy executed by the application server can be configured in accordance either any of Options 1 through 5 for case 2 in Table 1 in an example.

Referring to Table 3 above in cases 3 and 4 the given UE is switching between activation participation in the first and second App calls i.e. in case 3 from the first App call to the second App call and in case 4 from the second App call to the first App call . The target App call for the active participation switch can be allocated QoS while reducing the QoS allocation for the current App call to BE as in Option 1 of case 3 or case 4 the target App call for the active participation switch can be allocated QoS without changing the QoS allocation for the current App call as in Option 2 of case 3 or case 4 or the target App call for the active participation switch can be allocated BE without changing the QoS allocation for the current App call as in Option 3 of case 3 or case 4. Thus the policy executed by the application server can be configured in accordance either any of Options 1 2 or 3 for cases 3 or 4 in Table 1 in an example.

Referring to the bearer state for App client application on the given UE corresponds to an allocation of a non GBR EPS bearer for application layer signaling and a GBR EPS bearer for exchanging media e.g. voice packets video packets etc. for the first App call e.g. as in of over which media and signaling information is exchanged with the first talk group during the first App call e.g. as in of . Alternatively as discussed above the bearer state for App client application on the given UE can be assigned a single EPS e.g. GBR or non GBR bearer for both signaling and media for the first App call over which media and signaling information is exchanged with the first talk group during the first App call .

At some point during the given UE s participation in the first App call a given UE from the second talk group sends a call request to initiate the second App call e.g. as in of . The application server evaluates the resource allocation for the prospective participants of the second App call determines that the App client application on the given UE is already in an App call and has resources assigned thereto and the application server determines to announce the second App call by sending announcement messages to the given UE and to UE s in the second talk group other than the call originator if any . At the scenario described above with respect to case 2 is thereby invoked UE terminated call announcement when another call is active and it is assumed in that a user of the given UE selects Option 3 for case 2 i.e. add GBR QoS for second App call to existing resources . Accordingly the given UE sends an ACK accept message to the application server that indicates call acceptance based on Option 3 of case 2 and one or more UE s in the second talk group also ACK the call announcement for a group call scenario may be omitted for a 1 1 App call .

Referring to the application server receives the call acceptance messages from at least one target UE determines to notify the LTE core network of the given UE to add the additional QoS resources for supporting the second App call e.g. as in of and the application server sends the add QoS notification for the second App call to the LTE core network e.g. as in of and the LTE core network initiates setup of a new dedicated GBR EPS bearer for supporting the second App call . The application server sends a floor grant message to the call originator after which the call originator begins transmitting media for the second App call . The application server sends the media from the call originator of the second App call to the given UE and also for a group call to other UE s in the second talk group . The application server also sends media from the ongoing first App call to the given UE at . The App client application on the given UE thereby receives media from both the first and second App calls . While not shown explicitly in one of these App calls may be active played at the given UE while another may be muted not played . Accordingly after QoS is allocated to the second App call in accordance with Option 3 of case 3 from Table 3 above the bearer state for App client application on the given UE corresponds to an allocation of a non GBR EPS signaling bearer for both the first and second App calls e.g. the same signaling bearer from a first GBR EPS media bearer for the first App call and a second GBR EPS media bearer for the second App call e.g. as in of .

As will be appreciated is provided as an example of how can be modified to accommodate one particular case and option combination from Table 3. It will be readily understood how other case and option combinations from Table 3 could be accommodated in other embodiments of the invention.

While the embodiments above have been described primarily with reference to lx EV DO architecture in CDMA2000 networks GPRS architecture in W CDMA or UMTS networks and or EPS architecture in LTE based networks it will be appreciated that other embodiments can be directed to other types of network architectures and or protocols.

Those of skill in the art will appreciate that information and signals may be represented using any of a variety of different technologies and techniques. For example data instructions commands information signals bits symbols and chips that may be referenced throughout the above description may be represented by voltages currents electromagnetic waves magnetic fields or particles optical fields or particles or any combination thereof.

Further those of skill in the art will appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present invention.

The various illustrative logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

The methods sequences and or algorithms described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium is coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. The ASIC may reside in a user terminal e.g. UE . In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal.

In one or more exemplary embodiments the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored on or transmitted over as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage media may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Also any connection is properly termed a computer readable medium. For example if the software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative embodiments of the invention it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims. The functions steps and or actions of the method claims in accordance with the embodiments of the invention described herein need not be performed in any particular order. Furthermore although elements of the invention may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated.

