---

title: Monitoring interactions between two or more objects within an environment
abstract: One or more techniques and/or systems are provided for monitoring interactions by an input object with an interactive interface projected onto an interface object. That is, an input object (e.g., a finger) and an interface object (e.g., a wall, a hand, a notepad, etc.) may be identified and tracked in real-time using depth data (e.g., depth data extracted from images captured by a depth camera). An interactive interface (e.g., a calculator, an email program, a keyboard, etc.) may be projected onto the interface object, such that the input object may be used to interact with the interactive interface. For example, the input object may be tracked to determine whether the input object is touching or hovering above the interface object and/or a projected portion of the interactive interface. If the input object is in a touch state, then a corresponding event associated with the interactive interface may be invoked.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09430093&OS=09430093&RS=09430093
owner: Microsoft Technology Licensing, LLC.
number: 09430093
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131231
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 109 598 filed on May 17 2011 entitled MONITORING INTERACTIONS BETWEEN TWO OR MORE OBJECTS WITHIN AN ENVIRONMENT at least some of which may be incorporated herein.

Today mobile devices are becoming increasingly connected powerful and versatile. Mobile devices are able to perform many tasks that previously required a personal computer for operation. Some features of mobile devices may comprise internet connectivity email video chat gaming GPS mapping operating systems etc. Mobile devices are generally designed for mobility so that a user can carry and interact with such devices in everyday situations e.g. a smart phone may be designed to fit within a pocket a tablet may be designed to be held in a single hand etc. . Unfortunately the limited size of mobile devices such as diminutive screens and buttons may mar the user experience. In one example web pages may be redesigned with reduce content in order for the web pages to fit within the viewing confines of mobile devices. In another example a user may be restricted to miniature input devices such as small keyboards for interacting with content on a mobile device.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key factors or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Among other things one or more systems and or techniques for monitoring interactions with a projected interactive interface are disclosed herein. In particular an input object and an interface object may be identified and tracked in real time within an environment. In one example the input object and or the interface object may be tangible objects within a physical environment e.g. a finger input object and a notepad interface object within an outdoor or indoor space such as a room . The input object and or interface object may be tracked by iteratively indentifying such objects within the environment based upon depth data e.g. depth data derived from depth based images of the environment successively captured by a depth camera . For example the input object and or interface object may be identified by calculating depth derivative characteristics derived from depth maps associated with captured images of the environment. That is a depth camera may capture an image comprising depth measurements for pixels within the captured image which may be represented as a depth map. Depth derivative characteristics may be calculated from the depth map by calculating the derivative change in depth between pixels and or groups of pixels e.g. an amount of change in depth between pixels which may be used to create a depth derivative image. For example a finger input object may be identified based upon depth derivative characteristics representing a cylindrical object having dimensional boundaries similar to a finger.

An interactive interface may be projected onto the interface object. It may be appreciated that the interactive interface may be associated with any one or more of a wide variety of interfaces such as an email application a calculator a keyboard a watch a color pallet a drawing surface etc. It may be appreciated that the interface object may be associated with any one or more of a wide variety of tangible objects such as a body part e.g. a palm a fixed surface in the environment e.g. a wall a hand held object e.g. a notepad etc. In one example the interactive interface may be projected onto the interface object using a projector such as a pico projector. The projection may be dynamically adjusted in real time based upon distortion of the interface object to provide a desired e.g. optimal viewpoint of the interactive interface e.g. an interactive interface may be resized and or repositioned based upon changes and or movement of the interface object upon which the interactive interface is projected .

It may be appreciated that the input object and the interface object and or the interactive interface projected onto the interface object may be tracked with respect to one another in real time within the environment. In one example the input object may be tracked to determine whether the input object is in a hover state or a touch state in relation to the interface object and or a portion of the projected interactive interface based upon depth data e.g. depth measurements depth derivative characteristics and or other depth data . For example a calculator interactive interface may be projected onto a left forearm interface object. The left forearm interface object and a right finger input object may be identified and or tracked with respect to one another within the environment based upon depth data. The right finger input object may be determined to be in a hover state if the difference in depth between the right finger input object and the left forearm interface object is greater than a predetermined threshold. The right finger input object may be determined to be in a touch state if the difference in depth between the right finger input object and the left forearm interface object is less than a predetermined threshold. If the right finger input object is in a touch state then a corresponding touch event may be invoked. For example the touch state may indicate that the right finger input object is touching a sum button on the calculator interactive interface projected onto the left forearm interface object. A touch event that displays a sum of two previously entered numbers may be calculated and or displayed within a calculator display region of the calculator interactive interface object projected onto the left forearm interface object.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the following description and annexed drawings set forth certain illustrative aspects and implementations. These are indicative of but a few of the various ways in which one or more aspects may be employed. Other aspects advantages and novel features of the disclosure will become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the annexed drawings.

The claimed subject matter is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are generally used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the claimed subject matter. It may be evident however that the claimed subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances structures and devices are illustrated in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the claimed subject matter.

Due to the limited mobility of general computing devices and the constrained screen and input size of mobile devices it may be advantageous to provide users with additional interfaces through which a user may interact with a computing environment. In particular a user s environment may be augmented with a projection of an interactive interface that may be used to interact with a computing environment. For example an email interactive interface may be projected onto a surface e.g. a hand a wall a tree etc. such that a user may read emails by interacting with the projection of the email application interface. Unfortunately it may be difficult to monitor interactions of an input device e.g. a fingertip with an interactive interface projected onto an interface object due to limited information and or feedback of the environment input device and or interface object. For example one current solution measures mechanical energy and or sound waves created by impact of a finger on a surface. However such a technique may be unable to detect whether the finger is moved along the surface such as to create a finger stroke.

Accordingly one or more systems and or techniques for monitoring interactions with a projected interactive interface are provided herein. In particular an input object and an interface object upon which an interactive interface may be projected may be tracked in real time within an environment based upon depth data e.g. depth measurements and or calculated depth derivative data associated with images captured by a depth camera . Interactions such as hovering over and or touching between the input object and the interface object may be tracked based upon such depth data. In this way a user may interact with a computing environment through the interactive interface e.g. a calculator projected onto the interface object e.g. a wall using the input object e.g. a finger based upon depth data which may be derived from images captured by a depth camera for example. The user may appropriate a wide variety of surfaces as the interface object upon which the interactive interface may be projected e.g. a wall a palm a door etc. . For example a user may invoke and or define an interface object using a hand gesture. The projection of the interactive interface on the interface object may be tracked and or dynamically adjusted based upon distortion such as movement of the interface object e.g. a projection of an email application on a notepad interface object may be altered based upon a user moving or twisting the notepad interface object .

One embodiment of monitoring interactions with a projected interactive interface is illustrated by an exemplary method in . At the method starts. At an input object and or an interface object may be tracked in real time within an environment. The tracking may comprise iteratively identifying the input object and interface object within the environment based upon depth derivative characteristics derived from depth maps associated with captured images of the environment. For example a depth camera e.g. a depth camera worn by a user may be configured to capture images of the environment along with depth data e.g. depth data for respective pixels of an image which may be used to generate depth maps of the environment. It may be appreciated that a wide variety of depth sensing techniques may be used to generate the depth map such as LIDAR time of flight structured light techniques and or other depth sensing techniques. Depth derivatives e.g. change in depth may be calculated from the depth maps to indentify the input object and or the interface object. In particular the depth derivatives may be analyzed to identify clusters of pixels having depth derivative characteristics illustrative of input objects and or interface objects. In one example segmentation may be performed to identify the input object which may yield spatial location X Y and Z coordinates of the input object e.g. the input object may be segmented from other objects within the environment based upon depth data .

In one example of identifying an input object a cylindrical input object may be identified based upon depth derivatives changes in depth within the environment illustrative of a cylindrical object having particular depth derivative characteristics. For example a vertical cylinder may have depth derivative characteristics of a smooth derivative indicating small or no change in depth for an area to the left of the cylinder then a steep positive derivative indicating a significant increasing change in depth for a curved left portion of the cylinder then a smooth derivative indicating small or no change in depth for the top of the cylinder then a steep negative derivative indicating a significant decreasing change in depth for a curved right portion of the cylinder and finally a smooth derivative indicating small or no change in depth for an area to the right of the cylinder. In this way a wide variety of input objects with various shapes having corresponding depth derivative characteristics may be identified.

At an interactive interface may be projected onto the interface object. In one example a fixed sized interactive interface may be projected at a fixed projection location e.g. a center of a projection area on the interface object such that the interface object would have to be positioned into the fixed projection location. In another example an X Y Z location and orientation of the interface object may be determined so that the projection of the interactive interface may track the interface object. In another example depth size and or other measurement data of the interface object may be used to classify the interface object as a particular predefined type of surface e.g. depth size and or dimensional ranges may be predefined for various surfaces which may be compared with measured data of the interface object to classify the interface object . In another example the projection of the interactive interface may be automatically sized and or positioned e.g. auto fitting based upon available surface area detected on a segmented surface of the interface object. For example X Y Z rotation estimates may be used to determine outermost points of the interface object s surface along major and minor axes radiating out from the surface s central lock point which may result in four lock points that may be used to estimate length and width of the interface object. In another example a hybrid approach blending interface object classification and or auto fitting may be used. In another example a user may define a projection area on the interface object upon which the interactive interface may be projected. For example the user may click a center point and or may drag a boundary outlining the projection area. It may be appreciated that a variety of projection and or projection tracking techniques may be employed for projecting the interactive interface onto the interface object.

At the input object may be determined as being in a hover state or a touch state in relation to the interface object based upon depth data. That is an X Y and Z position of the input object in relation to the interface object may be resolved in order to determine whether the input object is hovering above or touching the interface object e.g. a portion of the interface object upon which a portion of the interactive interface is projected . In one example the input object depicted within a depth map of the environment may be flood filled based upon depth values to determine whether the input object is in a hover state or a touch state. That is pixels comprising similar depth values may be flood filled from the input object outward. If the flood filling fills at least a portion e.g. a predefined percentage of the interface object e.g. because pixels within the interface object have similar depth values as pixels within the input object then the input object may be determined as being in a touch state with regard to the interface object because of the similar depth values of the input object and the interface object. Additionally if the touch location corresponds to a projected portion of the interactive interface then an event associated with the touched portion of the interactive interface may be performed. However if the flood filling does not fill at least a portion e.g. a predefined percentage of the interface object because pixels within the interface object do not have similar depth values as pixels within the input object then the input object may be determined as being in a hover state with regard to the interface object because of the dissimilar depth values of the input object and the interface object. At the method ends.

One embodiment of monitoring interactions between an input object and an interface object is illustrated by an exemplary method in . At the method starts. At a depth map comprising depth data for pixels within a captured image of an environment may be received. At a depth derivative image may be generated from the depth map based upon computing depth derivatives for pixel clusters within the captured image using the depth data. That is depth derivatives may be calculated in the X and Y axes for pixel clusters e.g. a sliding 5 5 pixel window . The depth derivative image may be iterated over to identify an input object and or an interface object. For example template matching with dynamic parameters may be used to identify groupings of pixels that may be candidates for input objects and or interface objects.

At the depth derivative image may be iterated over to identify an input object having depth derivative characteristics within predefined input object parameters. That is predefined input object parameters may be predefined e.g. as predefined templates for various input objects that may be identified and or tracked within an environment e.g. a predefined template for a finger may be defined with input object parameters comprising a height range of 5 mm to 25 mm representing a typical finger diameter a predefined template for a stylus may be defined with input object parameters typical of a stylus etc. . A grouping of pixels may be identified as an input object candidate based upon the grouping of pixels comprising depth derivative characteristics within predefined input object parameters e.g. vertical slices of cylinder like objects may be identified as candidates for a finger input object . In this way an input object may be identified based upon depth data such as depth derivative characteristics and or other depth information.

At the depth derivative image may be iterated over to identify an interface object having depth derivative characteristics within predefined interface object parameters. It may be appreciated that the input object and the interface object may be distinguishable from one another and thus may be identified and or tracked in real time within the environment with relation to one another e.g. the input object may be in a hover state or a touch state in relation to the interface object the input object may be used to create a stroke input across the interface object etc. . In particular the input object and the interface object may be tracked in real time within the environment by iteratively receiving depth maps comprising depth data for pixels within captured images of the environment generating depth derivative images from the depth maps and distinguishing between the input object and the interface object based upon depth data.

In one example an interactive interface may be projected onto the interface object so that a user may interact with the interactive interface using the input object. The projection of the interactive interface may be dynamically adjusted e.g. resized moved etc. based upon distortion e.g. movement of the interface object which may be detected from depth data associated with the interface object e.g. depth data of a hand interface object may indicate that the hand moved to the right . In this way interactions with the interactive interface may be monitored by tracking interactions of the input object with the interface object e.g. the input object may touch a portion of the interface object upon which the interactive interface is projected which may invoke a corresponding event associated with the interactive interface .

It another example the input object and or the interface object may be identified and or tracked within the environment without reference or regard to an interactive interface and or a projection thereof e.g. a projected interface object may or may not be utilized when tracking input objects and or interface objects . That is the input object and the interface object may be tracked merely with respect to one another within the environment without having a projected interactive interface. For example a finger may be identified as a finger input object while a forearm may be identified as a forearm interface object. A user may enter a text message into a tangible computing device e.g. a watch cell phone etc. by writing the text message on the forearm interface object using the finger input object which may be tracked as one or more touch states and or one or more hover states between the finger input device and the forearm interface object. In this example a projected interactive interface is not utilized e.g. there is no projection of a text entry interactive interface on the forearm interface object . Thus the user performs the text message entry by merely writing on a bare surface of the forearm and of course other surfaces could be used .

Various states of the input object in relation to the interface object may be tracked based upon depth data e.g. a flood filling technique based upon depth data may be used to determine whether the input object is touching or hovering above the interface object . For example an input object may be in a hover state a touch state a touch state indicative of a stroke input and or a variety of other states in relation to the interface object. If the input object is in a touch state then a corresponding touch event may be invoked. For example if the input object is determined to be in a touch state in relation to the interface object at a location upon which the interactive interface is projected e.g. a finger input object is touching an s key of a keyboard interactive interface projected onto a hand interface object then an event corresponding to the interactive interface may be invoked e.g. an s may be displayed in a projected text editing application associated with the projected keyboard interactive interface . Additionally the projection of the interactive interface may be altered to provide real time feedback e.g. the s key of the keyboard interactive interface may be darkened lightened discolored etc. to provide feedback that the s key was touched . If the input object is in a hover state e.g. for X time then a corresponding hover event may be invoked e.g. an event corresponding to an interactive interface .

It may be appreciated that one or more input objects and or one or more interface objects may be tracked within the environment. In one example the depth derivative image may be iterated over to identify a second interface object e.g. the first interface object may be a hand upon which a color pallet is projected and the second interface object may be a wall upon which a drawing application is projected . A determination may be made as to whether the input object is in a hover state or a touch state in relation to the second interface object e.g. a finger input object may be used to select a color from the color pallet projected on the first interface object and then the finger input object may used to draw an image within the drawing application projected on the second interface object . In another example the depth derivative image may be iterated over to identify a second input object e.g. a first input object may be an index finger and a second input object may be a pointer finger . A determination may be made as to whether the second input object is in a hover state or a touch state in relation to the interface object e.g. the index finger may be used to invoke a shift key of a keyboard interactive interface projected onto a wall interface object and the pointer finger may be used to invoke an s key of the keyboard interactive interface to create a capital S . At the method ends.

The projection component may be configured to project an interactive interface e.g. a calculator onto the interface object . The projection component may be configured to dynamically adjust the projection of the interactive interface based upon distortion of the interface object detected from depth data associated with the interface object e.g. a user may twist or move the notepad interface object and thus the projection of the calculator may be adjusted accordingly to provide desired e.g. optimal viewing the user may tile the notepad interface object to indicate a desire for privacy and thus the projection of the calculator may be dimmed or shrunken to provide privacy .

The tracking component may be configured to determine whether the input object is in a hover state or a touch state or a touch state indicating a stroke input in relation to the interface object based upon depth data e.g. depth values depth derivative values etc. . For example the input object may be flood filled within the depth derivative image and or a captured image and or a depth map based upon depth data e.g. pixels having similar depth values may be filled from a starting point within the input object whereas pixels with dissimilar depth values may not be filled . In this way the input object may be determined as being in a touch state in relation to the interface object and potentially in a touch state in relation to a portion of the interactive interface projected onto the touched area based upon the flood filling at least a portion of the interface object.

It may be appreciated that the input object may be determined as being in particular state such as a touch state or a hover state in relation to the interactive interface projected onto the interface object . For example the input object may be detected as being in a touch state in relation to the interface object at a location upon which the interactive interface is projected. Upon detecting the touch state an event corresponding to the interactive interface may be invoked e.g. a call may be placed based upon detecting the input object touched a call button on the interactive interface . Additionally the projection of the interactive interface may be altered to provide real time feedback e.g. the call button may be highlighted to provide feedback that the call button was touched and or invoked .

In one example the stylus input object may be determined to be in a touch state touch input with regard to the hand interface object and or a blue selection button of the color selection interactive interface . Accordingly a color selection event may be invoked based upon the touch input e.g. a drawing color of the marker board interactive interface may be set to blue . Next the stylus input object may be determined to be in a touch state stroke input with regard to the wall interface object and or portions of the marker board interactive interface object . Accordingly a draw event may be invoked based upon the stroke input e.g. a blue line may be projected onto the wall interface object .

The stylus input object may be determined to be in a hover state with respect to the notepad interface object because depth values of the stylus input object e.g. depth values of 4 to 6 are dissimilar from depth values of the notepad interface object e.g. depth value of 8 for pixels within the notepad interface object that are near to the stylus input object .

The stylus input object may be determined to be in a touch state with respect to the notepad interface object because depth values of the stylus input object e.g. depth values of 7 to 8 are similar to depth values of the notepad interface object e.g. depth value of 8 for pixels within the notepad interface object that are near to the stylus input object .

Still another embodiment involves a computer readable medium comprising processor executable instructions configured to implement one or more of the techniques presented herein. An exemplary computer readable medium that may be devised in these ways is illustrated in wherein the implementation comprises a computer readable medium e.g. a CD R DVD R or a platter of a hard disk drive on which is encoded computer readable data . This computer readable data in turn comprises a set of computer instructions configured to operate according to one or more of the principles set forth herein. In one such embodiment the processor executable computer instructions may be configured to perform a method such as at least some of the exemplary method of and or at least some of exemplary method of for example. In another such embodiment the processor executable instructions may be configured to implement a system such as at least some of the exemplary system of for example. Many such computer readable media may be devised by those of ordinary skill in the art that are configured to operate in accordance with the techniques presented herein.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

As used in this application the terms component module system interface and the like are generally intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a controller and the controller can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

Furthermore the claimed subject matter may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. Of course those skilled in the art will recognize many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the claimed subject matter.

It may be appreciated that at least one of A and B and or the like generally means A or B or both A and B.

Although not required embodiments are described in the general context of computer readable instructions being executed by one or more computing devices. Computer readable instructions may be distributed via computer readable media discussed below . Computer readable instructions may be implemented as program modules such as functions objects Application Programming Interfaces APIs data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the computer readable instructions may be combined or distributed as desired in various environments.

In other embodiments device may include additional features and or functionality. For example device may also include additional storage e.g. removable and or non removable including but not limited to magnetic storage optical storage and the like. Such additional storage is illustrated in by storage . In one embodiment computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein may be in storage . Storage may also store other computer readable instructions to implement an operating system an application program and the like. Computer readable instructions may be loaded in memory for execution by processing unit for example.

The term computer readable media as used herein includes computer storage media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions or other data. Memory and storage are examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM Digital Versatile Disks DVDs or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by device . Any such computer storage media may be part of device .

Device may also include communication connection s that allows device to communicate with other devices. Communication connection s may include but is not limited to a modem a Network Interface Card NIC an integrated network interface a radio frequency transmitter receiver an infrared port a USB connection or other interfaces for connecting computing device to other computing devices. Communication connection s may include a wired connection or a wireless connection. Communication connection s may transmit and or receive communication media.

The term computer readable media may include communication media. Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal may include a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal.

Device may include input device s such as keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device infrared cameras video input devices and or any other input device. Output device s such as one or more displays speakers printers and or any other output device may also be included in device . Input device s and output device s may be connected to device via a wired connection wireless connection or any combination thereof. In one embodiment an input device or an output device from another computing device may be used as input device s or output device s for computing device .

Components of computing device may be connected by various interconnects such as a bus. Such interconnects may include a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI such as PCI Express a Universal Serial Bus USB firewire IEEE 13104 an optical bus structure and the like. In another embodiment components of computing device may be interconnected by a network. For example memory may be comprised of multiple physical memory units located in different physical locations interconnected by a network.

Those skilled in the art will realize that storage devices utilized to store computer readable instructions may be distributed across a network. For example a computing device accessible via a network may store computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein. Computing device may access computing device and download a part or all of the computer readable instructions for execution. Alternatively computing device may download pieces of the computer readable instructions as needed or some instructions may be executed at computing device and some at computing device .

Various operations of embodiments are provided herein. In one embodiment one or more of the operations described may constitute computer readable instructions stored on one or more computer readable media which if executed by a computing device will cause the computing device to perform the operations described. The order in which some or all of the operations are described should not be construed as to imply that these operations are necessarily order dependent. Alternative ordering will be appreciated by one skilled in the art having the benefit of this description. Further it will be understood that not all operations are necessarily present in each embodiment provided herein.

Moreover the word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather use of the word exemplary is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion. As used in this application the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X employs A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims may generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form. Also at least one of A and B and or the like generally means A or B or both A and B.

Also although the disclosure has been shown and described with respect to one or more implementations equivalent alterations and modifications will occur to others skilled in the art based upon a reading and understanding of this specification and the annexed drawings. The disclosure includes all such modifications and alterations and is limited only by the scope of the following claims. In particular regard to the various functions performed by the above described components e.g. elements resources etc. the terms used to describe such components are intended to correspond unless otherwise indicated to any component which performs the specified function of the described component e.g. that is functionally equivalent even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure which performs the function in the herein illustrated exemplary implementations of the disclosure. In addition while a particular feature of the disclosure may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several implementations such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the other implementations as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes having has with or variants thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising. 

