---

title: Merging sets of data objects for display
abstract: Disclosed is a method of merging a first set of data objects and a second set of data objects for displaying on a display screen, the method comprising: retrieving a first identifier associated with a first memory location, the first memory location for storing the first set of data objects; retrieving a second identifier associated with a second memory location, the second memory location for storing the second set of data objects; comparing the first identifier and the second identifier; and grouping one or more first data objects from the first set of data objects and one or more second data objects from the second set of data objects based on the comparison.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09547731&OS=09547731&RS=09547731
owner: BlackBerry Limited
number: 09547731
owner_city: Waterloo, Ontario
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20130712
---
The present matter is related to storing data objects and in particular to merging a first set of data objects and a second set of data objects for displaying on a display screen.

Electronic devices such as mobile communication devices computers tablets or other electronic devices are often used to store data such as camera images video files and digital audio files. Such data can often be stored in more than one location. For example such data can be stored in memory that is local to the electronic device and similar data can be stored in a removable memory such as a flash memory.

The operation of electronic devices can be enhanced in various ways depending on how the data is displayed on a display screen.

In accordance with an aspect described is a method of merging a first set of data objects and a second set of data objects for displaying on a display screen the method comprising retrieving a first identifier associated with a first memory location the first memory location for storing the first set of data objects retrieving a second identifier associated with a second memory location the second memory location for storing the second set of data objects comparing the first identifier and the second identifier and grouping one or more first data objects from the first set of data objects and one or more second data objects from the second set of data objects based on the comparison.

In accordance with another aspect disclosed is an electronic device comprising a first memory location for storing a first set of data objects a second memory location for storing a second set of data objects a processor for executing instructions and a memory for storing the instructions which when executed cause the processor to retrieve a first identifier associated with the first memory location retrieve a second identifier associated with the second memory location compare the first identifier and the second identifier and group one or more first data objects from the first set of data objects and one or more second data objects from the second set of data objects based on the comparison.

In accordance with another aspect disclosed is a computer readable memory comprising computer executable instructions which when executed cause a processor to retrieve a first identifier associated with a first memory location the first memory location for storing a first set of data objects retrieve a second identifier associated with a second memory location the second memory location for storing a second set of data objects compare the first identifier and the second identifier and group one or more first data objects from the first set of data objects and one or more second data objects from the second set of data objects based on the comparison.

Often data files or data objects are stored on more than one memory. For example image files that may have been captured with a camera or downloaded from one or more remote sources or received via a data communication message may be stored in two separate memories. For instance some image files may be stored on an electronic device s local memory and some image files may be stored on a removable memory such as a flash memory . When accessing the image files or other types of data objects it may be useful to view similar image files from the two memories as a single presentation or list of image files.

The present matter discloses displaying a list or presenting the images from multiple memories on a single display screen. The images or other data objects may be presented without regard to the fact that the underlying files are located in separate memories.

Referring first to a front view of an example electronic device is illustrated. The electronic device can be a mobile phone portable computer smartphone tablet computer personal digital assistant a wearable computer such as a watch a television a digital camera or a computer system for example. The electronic device may be of a form apart from those specifically listed above.

The electronic device can include one or more cameras . The cameras are configured to generate camera media such as images in the form of still photographs motion video or another type of camera data. The camera media may be captured in the form of an electronic signal which is produced by an image sensor associated with the camera . Components other than the image sensor may be associated with the camera although such other components may not be shown in the Figures. More particularly the image sensor not shown is configured to produce an electronic signal in dependence on received light. That is the image sensor converts an optical image into an electronic signal which may be output from the image sensor by way of one or more electrical connectors associated with the image sensor. The electronic signal represents electronic image data which may also be referred to as camera media or camera data .

Images captured by the camera can be stored as data or data objects in a memory associated with the electronic device .

The display screen can be configured to display visual identifiers such as images videos or icons. The visual identifiers can be stored in a memory associated with the electronic device . Alternatively the display screen can display the view captured using the camera . The visual identifiers shown in are a rectangle a hexagon a star and a circle. However the visual identifiers can alternatively be thumbnails i.e. smaller sized images or icons representative of an underlying data object. The visual identifiers may otherwise or additionally be text or text based.

In one or more embodiments each visual identifier is associated with an underlying data object. For example the data object that underlies a visual identifier can be an image an audio file or a video file.

A visual identifier may be selected using an input interface. For example a visual identifier may be selected using a touchscreen input in an embodiment in which the display screen is a touchscreen display. By way of further example a visual identifier may be selected using a trackball or other input interface. After a visual identifier is selected the underlying data object may be displayed on the display screen . For example a particular visual identifier may have an image file as its underlying data object. Upon selection of that particular visual identifier the image file may be displayed on the display screen in place of all of the visual identifiers .

There may be zero one or more visual identifiers displayed on the display screen at any time. In one or more embodiments a list of visual identifiers may be displayed on the display screen in response to a predefined or specific input. For example the selection of a folder of data objects e.g. a folder of image files may result in the display of visual identifiers e.g. thumbnails representing each data object in the selected folder.

The visual identifiers may be displayed in an ordered way on the display screen in accordance with one or more features of the underlying data object or with one or more features of the visual identifiers . For example the data objects that underlie or that are associated with the visual identifiers may have a time stamp or date stamp. That is the data objects may be associated with a time or date of creation. In accordance with an embodiment when the visual identifiers are displayed on the display screen they may be displayed in chronological order i.e. ordered according to the time or date of creation . Other features of the visual identifiers or data object that can be used to organize or order the display of the visual identifiers on the display screen can include the size of the data object the size of the visual identifier the number of colours on the visual identifier or the number of times the visual identifier or underlying data object has been accessed for example.

In the embodiment illustrated the electronic device includes a front facing camera . A front facing camera is a camera which is located to obtain images of a subject near a front face of the electronic device . That is the front facing camera may be located on or near a front face of the electronic device . By way of further example a front facing camera may face the same direction as the main display screen . In at least some example embodiments the front facing camera may be provided in a central location relative to the display screen to facilitate image acquisition of a face. In at least some embodiments the front facing camera may be used for example to allow a user of the electronic device to engage in a video based chat with a user of another electronic device . In at least some embodiments the front facing camera is mounted internally within a housing of the electronic device beneath a region of the front face which transmits light. For example the front facing camera may be mounted beneath a clear portion of the housing which allows light to be transmitted to the internally mounted camera. In other embodiments not illustrated the electronic device may include a rear facing camera instead of or in addition to the front facing camera.

The electronic device includes a flash . The flash may in at least some embodiments be a light emitting diode LED flash. The flash emits electromagnetic radiation. More particularly the flash may be used to produce a brief bright light which may facilitate picture taking in low light conditions. That is the flash may emit light while an image is captured using the camera . In the embodiment illustrated the flash is located to emit light at the front face of the electronic device . That is the flash is a front facing flash in the illustrated embodiment. The electronic device may include a rear facing flash instead of or in addition to the rear facing flash to emit light at the front face of the electronic device . The electronic device may have additional camera hardware which may complement the camera .

Referring now to a block diagram of an example electronic device is illustrated. The electronic device of may include a housing that houses components of the electronic device . Internal components of the electronic device may be constructed on a printed circuit board PCB . The electronic device includes a controller including at least one processor such as a microprocessor that controls the overall operation of the electronic device . The processor interacts with device subsystems such as a wireless communication subsystem for exchanging radio frequency signals with a wireless network to perform communication functions. The processor interacts with additional device subsystems including one or more input interfaces such as a keyboard one or more control buttons one or more microphones one or more cameras and or a touch sensitive overlay associated with a touchscreen display flash memory random access memory RAM read only memory ROM auxiliary input output I O subsystems a data port which may be a serial data port such as a Universal Serial Bus USB data port one or more output interfaces such as a display screen which may be a liquid crystal display LCD a flash one or more speakers or other output interfaces a short range communication module and other device subsystems generally designated as . Some of the subsystems shown in perform communication related functions whereas other subsystems may provide resident or on device functions.

The electronic device may include a touchscreen display in some example embodiments. The touchscreen display may be constructed using a touch sensitive input surface connected to an electronic controller. The touch sensitive input surface overlays the display screen and may be referred to as a touch sensitive overlay. The touch sensitive overlay and the electronic controller provide a touch sensitive input interface and the processor interacts with the touch sensitive overlay via the electronic controller. That is the touchscreen display acts as both an input interface and an output interface .

The communication subsystem includes a receiver a transmitter and associated components such as one or more antenna elements and local oscillators LOs and a processing module such as a digital signal processor DSP . The antenna elements and may be embedded or internal to the electronic device and a single antenna may be shared by both receiver and transmitter as is known in the art. The particular design of the wireless communication subsystem depends on the wireless network in which the electronic device is intended to operate.

The electronic device may communicate with any one of a plurality of fixed transceiver base stations of the wireless network within its geographic coverage area. The electronic device may send and receive communication signals over the wireless network after the required network registration or activation procedures have been completed. Signals received by the antenna through the wireless network are input to the receiver which may perform such common receiver functions as signal amplification frequency down conversion filtering channel selection etc. as well as analog to digital A D conversion. A D conversion of a received signal allows more complex communication functions such as demodulation and decoding to be performed in the DSP . In a similar manner signals to be transmitted are processed including modulation and encoding for example by the DSP . These DSP processed signals are input to the transmitter for digital to analog D A conversion frequency up conversion filtering amplification and transmission to the wireless network via the antenna . The DSP not only processes communication signals but may also provide for receiver and transmitter control. For example the gains applied to communication signals in the receiver and the transmitter may be adaptively controlled through automatic gain control algorithms implemented in the DSP .

In some example embodiments the auxiliary input output I O subsystems may include an external communication link or interface for example an Ethernet connection. The electronic device may include other wireless communication interfaces for communicating with other types of wireless networks for example a wireless network such as an orthogonal frequency division multiplexed OFDM network.

In some example embodiments the electronic device also includes a removable memory module typically including flash memory and a memory module interface . Network access may be associated with a subscriber or user of the electronic device via the memory module which may be a Subscriber Identity Module SIM card for use in a GSM network or other type of memory module for use in the relevant wireless network type. The memory module may be inserted in or connected to the memory module interface of the electronic device .

The electronic device may store data in an erasable persistent memory which in one example embodiment is the flash memory . In various example embodiments the data may include service data having information required by the electronic device to establish and maintain communication with the wireless network . The data may also include user application data such as email messages address book and contact information calendar and schedule information notepad documents images video audio and other commonly stored user information stored on the electronic device by its user and other data. The data may also include data captured using the camera . The data may in at least some embodiments include metadata which may store information about the images or video. In some embodiments the metadata and the images may be stored together. That is a single file may include both an image and also metadata regarding that image. For example in at least some embodiments the image may be formatted and stored as a JPEG image.

Individual data files may be identified as data objects. Collections or groupings of data objects may be identified as data sets or as sets of data objects. Data objects may be grouped into a set of data objects by storing an association or an identification of the data objects in memory for example.

The data stored in the persistent memory e.g. flash memory of the electronic device may be organized at least partially into a number of databases or data stores each containing data items of the same data type or associated with the same application. For example email messages contact records and task items may be stored in individual databases within the electronic device memory.

The data port may be used for synchronization with a user s host computer system. The data port enables a user to set preferences through an external device or software application and extends the capabilities of the electronic device by providing for information or software downloads to the electronic device other than through the wireless network . The alternate download path may for example be used to load an encryption key onto the electronic device through a direct reliable and trusted connection to thereby provide secure device communication.

In some example embodiments the electronic device is provided with a service routing application programming interface API which provides an application with the ability to route traffic through a serial data i.e. USB or Bluetooth Bluetooth is a registered trademark of Bluetooth SIG Inc. connection to the host computer system using standard connectivity protocols. When a user connects their electronic device to the host computer system via a USB cable or Bluetooth connection traffic that was destined for the wireless network is automatically routed to the electronic device using the USB cable or Bluetooth connection. Similarly any traffic destined for the wireless network is automatically sent over the USB cable Bluetooth connection to the host computer for processing. Further data may be transmitted to and from the electronic device using a WiFi network or using near field communication technologies.

The electronic device also includes a battery as a power source which is typically one or more rechargeable batteries that may be charged for example through charging circuitry coupled to a battery interface such as the serial data port . The battery provides electrical power to at least some of the electrical circuitry in the electronic device and the battery interface provides a mechanical and electrical connection for the battery . The battery interface is coupled to a regulator not shown which provides power V to the circuitry of the electronic device .

The short range communication module provides for communication between the electronic device and different systems or devices which need not necessarily be similar devices. For example the short range communication module may include an infrared device and associated circuits and components or a wireless bus protocol compliant communication mechanism such as a Bluetooth communication module to provide for communication with similarly enabled systems and devices.

In the embodiment illustrated the camera is included in a camera system along with a flash and an image signal processor ISP . The ISP may be embedded in the processor and it may also be considered as a functional part of the camera system . In at least some embodiments the camera may be associated with a dedicated image signal processor which may provide at least some camera related functions with the image signal processor being either embedded in the camera or a separate device. For example in at least some embodiments the image signal processor may be configured to provide auto focusing functions. Functions or features which are described below with reference to the camera application may in at least some embodiments be provided in whole or in part by the image signal processor .

The camera system associated with the electronic device also includes a flash . As noted above the flash is used to illuminate a subject while the camera captures an image of the subject. The flash may for example be used in low light conditions. In the example embodiment illustrated the flash is coupled with the main processor of the electronic device . The flash may be coupled to the image signal processor which may be used to trigger the flash . The image signal processor may in at least some embodiments control the flash . In at least some such embodiments applications associated with the main processor may be permitted to trigger the flash by providing an instruction to the image signal processor to instruct the image signal processor to trigger the flash . In one or more embodiments the image signal processor may be coupled to the processor .

In one or more embodiments the camera system may have a separate memory not shown on which the image signal processor can store data and retrieve instructions. Such instructions may for example have been stored in the memory by the processor which may in some embodiments also be coupled to the separate memory in the camera system .

A predetermined set of applications that control basic device operations including data and possibly voice communication applications may be installed on the electronic device during or after manufacture. Additional applications and or upgrades to an operating system or software applications may also be loaded onto the electronic device through the wireless network the auxiliary I O subsystem the data port the short range communication module or other suitable device subsystems . The downloaded programs or code modules may be permanently installed for example written into the program memory e.g. the flash memory or written into and executed from the RAM for execution by the processor at runtime.

In some example embodiments the electronic device may provide two principal modes of communication a data communication mode and a voice communication mode. In the data communication mode a received data signal such as a text message an email message or webpage download will be processed by the communication subsystem and input to the processor for further processing. For example a downloaded webpage may be further processed by a web browser or an email message may be processed by the email messaging application and output to the display screen . A user of the electronic device may also compose data items such as email messages for example using an input interface in conjunction with the display screen . These composed items may be transmitted through the communication subsystem over the wireless network .

In the voice communication mode the electronic device provides telephony functions and may operate as a typical cellular phone. The overall operation is similar to the data communication mode except that the received signals would be output to the speaker and signals for transmission would be generated by a transducer such as the microphone . The telephony functions are provided by a combination of software firmware i.e. a voice communication module and hardware i.e. the microphone the speaker and input devices . Alternative voice or audio I O subsystems such as a voice message recording subsystem may also be implemented on the electronic device . Although voice or audio signal output may be accomplished primarily through the speaker the display screen may also be used to provide an indication of the identity of a calling party duration of a voice call or other voice call related information.

The processor operates under stored program control and executes software modules such as applications stored in memory such as persistent memory for example in the flash memory . As illustrated in the software modules may include operating system software and one or more additional applications or modules such as for example a camera application . The processor may also operate to process data stored in memory associated with the electronic device .

In the example embodiment of the camera application is illustrated as being implemented as a stand alone application . However in other example embodiments the camera application could be provided by another application or module such as for example the operating system software . Further while the camera application is illustrated with a single block the functions or features provided by the camera application could in at least some embodiments be divided up and implemented by a plurality of applications and or modules. In one or more embodiments the camera application can be implemented by the ISP . The camera application may for example be configured to provide a viewfinder on the display screen by displaying in real time or near real time an image defined in the electronic signals received from the camera . The camera application may also be configured to capture an image or video by storing an image or video defined by the electronic signals received from the camera and processed by the image signal processor . For example the camera application may be configured to store an image or video to memory of the electronic device . The camera application may also be configured to control options or preferences associated with the camera .

In at least some embodiments the camera application may be configured to control a flash associated with the camera and or to control a zoom associated with the camera .

The software modules may also include a data access module . The data access module may be configured to control the access to the data or data objects. For example the data access module may be controlled by the processor and may be able to retrieve data from one or more memory locations.

In one or more embodiments the data access module may be configured to access data objects or data that is stored in two separate memory locations. For example the data access module may be able to access data from a first memory location and a second memory location. The first memory location may be separate from the second memory location. For example the first memory location may be a removable memory module and the second memory location may be a ROM . The data access module may also be configured to group together data objects obtained from the two memory locations in accordance with the methods described below.

The software modules or parts thereof may be temporarily loaded into volatile memory such as RAM . The RAM is used for storing runtime data variables and other types of data or information. Although specific functions are described for various types of memory this is merely one example and a different assignment of functions to types of memory could also be used.

At a first identifier associated with a first memory location is retrieved. The first memory location may be the flash memory or ROM or another memory that can be associated with the electronic device . For example the first memory location may be a removable memory or may be a remote memory accessible to the electronic device over a network. By way of further example the first memory location can be a memory that is internal to the electronic device .

In accordance with an embodiment the first memory location is for storing the first set of data objects. The first set of data object includes one or more first data objects. One or more of the first data objects can be an image file. For example one or more of the first data objects can be a file in .jpg or .tiff formats. One or more of the first data objects can be an audio file such as a file stored in .mp3 format. One or more of the first data objects can be a video file. One or more of the first data objects can be in another file format such as a text based file an HTML file etc. In other embodiment the first data object can be any type of digital file or any object with digital contents that can be stored in a memory.

In one or more embodiments the first memory location is organized as a hierarchical file system. For example the memory may be subdivided into folders which themselves may be subdivided into folders. The first data objects may be contained or accessible through one or more of the sub folders. The sub folders of a parent folder may be accessible only through the parent folder.

In one or more embodiments the hierarchical file system can be displayed on the display screen in response to an instruction or input. Each individual folder or level in the hierarchy can be accesses or selected in order to view its contents. Each folder has a name or identifier and the present folder s name is the basename . In other words the folder that is the lowest current level may have a name that is referenced as the basename herein. The parent or parent directory can be the terms used to identify the immediately preceding folder or immediately preceding level in the file hierarchy. The immediately preceding folder in the hierarchy can be the folder that is immediately preceding the basename folder. The full path can be the term used to identify the entire path name e.g. with the name of all of the folders such as C files photos vacation . Using the same example the basename folder is vacation and the parent directory name is photos .

In one or more embodiments the first set of data objects can include one or more file folders. For example the first set of data objects can include one or more file folders and one or more data objects that are not file folders.

In one or more embodiments the first data objects that are included in the first set of data objects may be all of the same format or type. Alternatively one or more of the first data objects that are in the first set of data objects is of a different format or type from the others.

In one or more embodiments the set of first data objects contains one or more or all of the data objects in a specific folder. For example the first set of data objects can be all of the contents of the folder C files photos vacation which may include image files and subfolders for example.

At a second identifier associated with a second memory location is retrieved. The second memory location is for storing the second set of data objects. The second memory location may be the flash memory or ROM or another memory that can be associated with the electronic device . For example the second memory location may be a removable memory such as the memory module or may be a remote memory accessible to the electronic device over a network. By way of further example the second memory location can be a memory that is internal to the electronic device .

In accordance with an embodiment the second memory location is for storing the second set of data objects. The second set of data object includes one or more second data objects. One or more of the second data objects can be an image file. For example one or more of the second data objects can be a file in .jpg or .tiff formats. One or more of the second data objects can be an audio file such as a file stored in .mp3 format. One or more of the second data objects can be a video file. One or more of the second data objects can be in another file format such as a text based file an HTML file etc.

In one or more embodiments the second memory location is organized as a hierarchical file system. For example the memory may be subdivided into folders which themselves may be subdivided into folders. The second data objects may be contained or accessible through one or more of the sub folders. The sub folders of a parent folder may be accessible only through the parent folder.

In one or more embodiments the second data objects that are included in the second set of data objects may be all in the same format or type. Alternatively one or more of the second data objects that are in the second set of data objects is of a different format or type from the others. In one or more embodiments the second data objects may be in a different format or type than the first data objects.

In one or more embodiments the set of second data objects contains one or more or all of the data objects in a specific folder. For example the second set of data objects can be all of the contents of the folder C files photos vacation which may include image files and subfolders for example.

In one or more embodiments both the first memory location and the second memory location are organized as hierarchical file systems. In an alternative embodiment only one of the first memory location and the second memory location is organized as a hierarchical file system. In yet a further alternative embodiment none of the first memory location and second memory location are organized as a hierarchical file system.

In one or more embodiments the first identifier is a first basename and the second identifier is a second basename. The first basename can be the name of the folder that directly contains the first data objects and the second basename can be the name of the folder that directly contains the second data objects. A folder directly contains a data object if there are no sub folders between the folder and the data object.

The first memory location may be part of the same physical memory as the second memory location but with each of the first memory location and second memory location having a different path name. For example each of the first memory location and the second memory location may be located in a memory internal to the electronic device which may be organized as a hierarchical file system or hierarchical memory . Following the same example each of the first memory location and second memory location may be different folders in the hierarchy and as a consequence each of the first memory location and second memory location may be on a different path in the hierarchy.

In one or more embodiments the first identifier includes a name of a parent directory associated with the first basename and the second identifier includes a name of a parent directory associated with the second base name. For example the first identifier can be the string of words that contain the basename i.e. the name of the folder that directly contains the first data objects and the name of the parent folder e.g. photos vacation . Similarly the second identifier can be the string of words that contain the basename and the name of the parent folder of the basename.

In one or more embodiments retrieving the first identifier includes removing a root portion of a path name associated with the first memory location and wherein retrieving the second identifier includes removing a root portion of a path name associated with the second memory location. Each of the first memory location and the second memory location may be identified using a path name which can include both a root portion and the names of the folders in the path name. For example the retrieval of the first identifier may consist of retrieving the entire path name for the first memory location and then stripping away the root portion and or names of one or more of the folders in the path name. For example the path name for the first memory location may be C files photos vacation and after stripping away or removing the root portion the first identifier may be files photos vacation . By way of further example the retrieval of the first identifier may also include stripping away one or more of the folder names so that following the example the first identifier may be vacation .

Retrieving the first identifier can include stripping away the system defined portion of the path name for the first memory location to leave the or part of the user defined portion of the path name for the first memory location. Similarly retrieving the second identifier can include stripping away the system defined portion of the path name associated the second memory location to leave the or part of the user defined portion of the path name associated with the second memory location. The system defined portion may consist of the root directory of the respective memory location and the user defined portion may consist of the folder names for the folders or directories of the respective memory location.

In one or more embodiments the first memory location and the second memory location are on different memory components. For example the first memory location may be located on a memory component that is physically separate from the memory component that the second memory location is located on. In other words the data e.g. first data objects stored in or at the first memory location are stored on a memory component that is different from the memory component on which the second data objects are stored. Accordingly the root of the path name of the first memory location can be different from the root of the path name of the second memory location component. In one or more embodiments the roots of the path names may be stripped from the names of the first memory location and second memory location in order to retrieve the first identifier and the second identifier. For example the first identifier and the second identifier may be the relative path names.

In one or more embodiments the first memory location is associated with or is located on an internal memory component and the second memory location is associated with or is located on an external memory component. The external memory component can be a removable memory such as a flash memory a DVD or CD for example. The internal memory can be ROM for example. In a further embodiment the external memory component can be a remotely accessible memory. For example the second memory location may be located on a memory component that is remote from the electronic device which is accessible over a network such as a wireless network .

At the first identifier and the second identifier are compared. For example the processor can compare the characters in the first identifier with the characters in the second identifier. By way of further example there may be certain features associated with the first identifier and second identifier that can be compared. By way of further example the features can include the type and or location of the first memory location and the second memory location.

The comparison of the first identifier and the second identifier can include comparing whether the user defined portion of each path name which may be the first identifier and the second identifier are the same or match.

In one or more embodiments the first identifier and the second identifier are both portions of path names rather than entire path names. For example the first identifier and the second identifier may both be a basename or may both be only the user defined portion of the path name where the entire path name is the name of the first memory location or the second memory location respectively .

In one or more embodiments the comparison of the first identifier and the second identifier includes determining whether the first identifier and the second identifier match. For example the processor may do a character by character analysis of each of the first identifier and the second identifier in order to determine whether each character and character position in each of the first identifier and second identifier match.

In an alternative embodiment the comparison of the first identifier and the second identifier can include determining whether more than a predefined percentage of characters in each of the first identifier and second identifier match. For example the predefined percentage may be 75 so that in order to determine a match 75 of the characters in the first identifier and the second identifier must be the same and in the same position.

In another embodiment the comparison of the first identifier and the second identifier can include determining whether the first predetermined number of characters in the first identifier and second identifier match. For example using a predetermined number of 4 characters to determine that there is a match the first 4 characters in the first identifier must match the first 4 characters in the second identifier.

At one or more first data objects from the first set of data objects and one or more second data objects from the second set of data objects are grouped based on the comparison. In other words in response to comparing the first identifier and the second identifier a group of one or more of the second data objects and one or more of the first data objects is formed.

In one or more embodiments grouping one or more first data objects and one or more second data objects based on the comparison includes associating the one or more first data objects with one or more second data objects in a memory associated with the electronic device . For example the association of the first data objects and second data objects in a group may include listing each of the first data objects i.e. the names of the first data objects with the second data objects i.e. the names of the second data objects in a single list in a file with a notification that they are to be grouped.

In one or more embodiments the grouped one or more first data objects and one or more second data objects may be stored in a specific location in a memory that is associated with the electronic device . For example grouping the one or more first data objects and the one or more second data objects may include copying the data objects into a specific location in a memory associated with the electronic device . Alternatively a list identifying the grouped first data objects and second data objects along with the location of the first data objects and second data objects may be stored in a memory accessible to the electronic device .

Optionally at one or more visual identifiers representative of the group of one or more first data objects and one or more second data objects are displayed on the display screen . In one or more embodiments each of the one or more first data object and the one or more second data object in the group is associated with a unique visual identifier . For example the visual identifiers can each be icons that are representative of the associated or underlying first data object or second data object.

The visual identifiers can be visually related to the underlying first data object or second data object. For example the underlying data object can be an image file and the visual identifier for that data object can be a small version e.g. a thumbnail of the image file.

In one or more embodiments displaying the visual identifiers can include displaying the visual identifiers in chronological order. For example the data objects e.g. the first data object or second data object underlying each visual identifier can have an associated date or time such as a last accessed date created date or last edited date. The date associated with the visual identifiers or with the underlying data object can be used as a basis for ordering the display of the visual identifiers on the display screen . For example the visual identifier with the oldest associated date can be displayed in a first position the display of the visual identifier with the second oldest date can be displayed in a second position and so on. The positioning of the displayed visual identifiers can be from left to right and from top to bottom similar to the ordering of written text .

In one or more embodiments grouping the one or more first data objects and the one or more second data objects may include storing the visual identifiers associated with the one or more first data objects and the one or more second data objects in a location in a memory associated with the electronic device . The visual identifiers may then be accessed from the memory and displayed on the display screen .

A visual identifier shown on the display screen may be selected using an input interface e.g. a touch on a touchscreen surface or a point and click input . In response to being selected the data object underlying the selected visual identifier may be open launched or initiated. For example the selected visual identifier may be associated with an image file and when the visual identifier is selected the underlying image file may be displayed on the display screen . Similarly the selected visual identifier may be associated with a video file and when the visual identifier is selected the video file may be launched. In yet a further example the selected visual identifier may be associated with a file folder in a hierarchical file system and when the visual identifier is selected the contents of the file folder may be displayed on the display screen . In other words a list of files or of icons or further visual identifiers representing the contents of the file folder may be displayed on the display screen .

The visual identifiers that are displayed on the display screen may include some visual identifiers that are associated with first data objects and second data objects. For example when the visual identifiers are displayed on the display screen they may be displayed without regard to whether the underlying data object is a first data object or a second data object.

The term computer readable medium or computer readable storage medium or computer readable memory as used herein means any medium which can store instructions for use by or execution by a computer or other computing device including but not limited to a portable computer diskette a hard disk drive HDD a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or flash memory an optical disc such as a Compact Disc CD Digital Versatile Disc DVD or Blu ray Disc and a solid state storage device e.g. NAND flash or synchronous dynamic RAM SDRAM .

One or more embodiments have been described by way of example. It will be apparent to persons skilled in the art that a number of variations and modifications can be made without departing from the scope of what is defined in the claims.

