---

title: Dynamic control of spin states in interacting magnetic elements
abstract: A method for the control of the magnetic states of interacting magnetic elements comprising providing a magnetic structure with a plurality of interacting magnetic elements. The magnetic structure comprises a plurality of magnetic states based on the state of each interacting magnetic element. The desired magnetic state of the magnetic structure is determined. The active resonance frequency and amplitude curve of the desired magnetic state is determined. Each magnetic element of the magnetic structure is then subjected to an alternating magnetic field or electrical current having a frequency and amplitude below the active resonance frequency and amplitude curve of said desired magnetic state and above the active resonance frequency and amplitude curve of the current state of the magnetic structure until the magnetic state of the magnetic structure is at the desired magnetic state.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08854871&OS=08854871&RS=08854871
owner: U.S. Department of Energy
number: 08854871
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131118
---
This application is a claims priority to U.S. provisional patent application 61 727 834 filed Nov. 19 2012 and is hereby fully incorporated in its entirety by reference.

The United States Government has rights in this invention pursuant to Contract No. DE AC02 06CH11357 between the U.S. Department of Energy DOE and Argonne LLC.

Embodiments of the present invention relate to the control of spin states of interacting magnetic elements. Preferably various embodiments of the present invention are used control the spin states in magnonic crystals nano oscillators filters magnetic random access memory and logic devices preferably vortex based.

Although systems with a single magnetic element not interacting with other magnetic elements are easily manipulated systems with multiple magnetic elements are currently uncontrollable due to their complex interactions. Attempts to control the up or down state of each magnetic element has only been successful for the magnetic element that is not interacting with another magnetic element. It is preferable to increase the density of magnetic devices to the point where a plurality of magnetic elements are in close enough proximity that they interact with each other. Once a plurality of magnetic elements begins to interact the interaction not only complicates the system but also makes changing the state of a single magnetic element seemingly impossible. The development of effective methods for the dynamic control of a plurality of magnetic element is key to the advancement of higher density magnetic devices which is highly desirable in for numerous magnetic devices for example magnonic crystals nano oscillators magnetic random access memory and logic devices preferably vortex based.

Vortices are observed in the statics and dynamics of a variety of physical systems such as fluids and plasma optics superconductors and magnetic structures. In patterned mesoscopic ferromagnets the ground state of the static magnetization can have a form of a vortex that consists of a large region of in plane curling magnetization clockwise or anticlockwise sense of rotation or chirality and a small core region 10 nm with out of plane magnetization which can be pointing either up 1 or down 1 positive or negative core polarity .

Magnetic data storage and logic devices in general have the potential to provide higher speed durability low power consumption and radiation resistant advantages over conventional products semiconductor . Some of the conceptual designs incorporate magnetic vortices as the key element in its functionality. In this regard lot of attention has been given to the fundamental research on vortex dynamics in confined magnetic geometries. So far only conceptual research structures have been proposed for exploiting the fast switching properties and storage bits capability of vortex cores. Their examples are magnetic random access memories spin torque nano oscillators magnetic storage and logic devices and vortex based magnonic crystals. For instance magnonic crystals are the magnetic counterparts of photonic crystals and are theoretically proven to propagate signal information at a speed of few km sec.

A method for the control of the magnetic states of interacting magnetic elements comprising providing a magnetic structure with a plurality of interacting magnetic elements. The magnetic structure comprises a plurality of magnetic states based on the state of each interacting magnetic element within the magnetic structure. The desired magnetic state of the magnetic structure is determined. The active resonance frequency and amplitude curve of the desired magnetic state is determined. Each magnetic element of the magnetic structure is then subjected to an alternating in plane magnetic field or an alternating electrical current having a frequency and amplitude below the active resonance frequency and amplitude curve of the desired magnetic state and above the active resonance frequency and amplitude curve of the current state of the magnetic structure until the magnetic state of the magnetic structure is at the desired magnetic state.

Preferably the various embodiments described herein are used to control the magnetic states of a plurality of interacting magnetic elements. For example but not limited to data storage microwave generation using an array of magnetically aligned magnetic elements or the creation of magnonic crystals. In a preferred embodiment the magnetic structure is a magnonic crystal which has tunable magnetic properties using the various embodiments described herein.

The magnetic structure is any structure made of any number materials and with any dimensions comprising a plurality of interacting magnetic elements . The magnetic structure may form a two dimensional 2D or three dimensional 3D like shape. A two dimensional 2D will obviously have a thickness but as known in the art the thickness of a 2D shape will be insubstantial compared to the length and width of the shape. Preferably a 2D shape has a length and width both of which are at least 10 more preferably 100 even more preferably at least 1 000 times larger than the thickness of the shape. In one preferred embodiment the magnetic structure forms a magnonic crystal and has a 3D shape. In one embodiment one or more magnetic elements are deposited on a silicon wafer or other type of substrate. Preferably the magnetic structure is the plurality of interacting magnetic elements physically connected by a non magnetic material. Preferably the magnetic structure is a magnonic crystal comprising a plurality of interacting magnetic elements .

In one embodiment the magnetic structure comprising an array of pairs of interacting magnetic elements whereby each magnetic element only interacts with one other magnetic element . In this embodiment the control of each interacting magnetic element is simplified by having only two interacting elements per array cell while allowing for increased density of magnetic elements in the magnetic structure .

In yet another embodiment the magnetic structure is configured whereby a magnetic element may interact with any number of other magnetic elements . For example in one embodiment the magnetic structure having an ovular shape is used to contain three magnetic elements which has a unique state whereby the magnetic element in between the other magnetic elements may be put in an anti vortex state. This embodiment has potential unknown and therefore its construction is highly desirable for further research.

In another embodiment the magnetic structure comprises any number of magnetic elements all of which are interacting with each other.

Each interacting magnetic element is a magnetic element that has a magnetic state influenced by at least one other magnetic element within the magnetic structure . Preferably each magnetic element is optimized for close proximity to not only increase the number of magnetic elements in a position in given area but also maximize the magnetic interaction thereby increasing the different in resonance frequencies for the various states of the resulting plurality of magnetic elements. Preferably each magnetic element is within 1 nm to 100 nm of another magnetic element depending on various factors of the magnetic element for example size shape magnetic material state other magnetic fields etc.

Preferably each magnetic element is in a magnetic vortex single domain multiple domain collinear spin arrangement or a combination thereof magnetic state. In preferred embodiments each magnetic element is in a single magnetic vortex magnetic state.

Each magnetic element is made of any ferromagnetic material preferably Ni Fe Co MnBi MnSb FeOFeO NiOFeO CuOFeO MgOFeO MnOFeO YFeO CrO CoFeB combinations thereof and alloys thereof. In the preferred embodiment one or more magnetic elements are made of Ni and Fe more preferably NiFe.

In a preferred embodiment the one or more interacting magnetic elements comprises one or more magnetic vortices as described in U.S. Pat. No. 7 697 243 hereby fully incorporated by reference. As described in U.S. Pat. No. 7 697 243 each magnetic element has a size shape and material selected such that the electron spin within the sensor align to create a single vortex at remanence zero magnetic field . Shapes having a width to diameter ratio of 0.5 to 2 are preferable. Some examples of triangles circles and ovals. The shape of a circle dot most favors a stable magnetic vortex and therefore is the preferred shape.

The calculation of a radius and thickness required for a given ferromagnetic material to support a single magnetic vortex is described in K. S. Buchanan K. Yu Guslienko A Scholl S. D. Bader and V. Novosad Physical Review B Vol 72 no. 134415 2005 herein fully incorporated by reference. As the article states a spacer of 1000l where lis the micromagnetic exchange length of the material of the ferromagnetic member can be considered as a single ferromagnetic member. lis defined as sqrt 2A M where A is the exchange stiffness constant of the material of the ferromagnetic member and Mis the saturation magnetization of the material of the ferromagnetic member. FIG. 3 of U.S. Pat. No. 7 697 243 shows a magnetic phase diagram 301 for single 305 and multi member ferromagnetic members. The y axis is the result of the radius R divided by lof the material of the ferromagnetic member. The x axis is the thickness L of the ferromagnetic member divided by l. Under a curve is a single magnetic domain state either horizontally or vertically . If the ferromagnetic member has a radius and thickness above a curve the desired single magnetic vortex will form at remanence.

For a circular NiFemagnetically soft magnetic element a thickness between 8 150 nm thickness with a diameter between 100 nm to 2 500 nm is known to work but not all combinations will work as shown in FIG. 3 of U.S. Pat. No. 7 697 243. Circular NiFemagnetically soft magnetic element having a diameter of about 1000 nm with a thickness of 20 60 nm are preferable.

The desired magnetic state of the magnetic structure is determined preferably by the user or the manufacturer. In one embodiment the magnetic elements are used for data storage and therefore the desired magnetic state will be the value related to the data to be stored into the magnetic elements . In this embodiment the desired magnetic state is preferably designed to change during operation of the device.

In an alternate embodiment the desired magnetic state is a static magnetic state for example when used for microwave generation using an array of magnetically aligned magnetic elements . Another embodiment the magnetic elements are used as a magnonic crystal which has tunable magnetic properties using the various embodiments described herein. In one embodiment the magnetic elements are set during manufacture. In yet another embodiment the magnetic elements are set after manufacture for example but not limited to periodically at the direction of the user or when a deviation from the desired magnetic state is detected.

The active resonance frequency and amplitude curve of the desired magnetic state is determined preferably by a spectrograph or other investigative technique. Preferably once the magnetic elements of the magnetic structure are in the desired state the active resonance frequency and amplitude curve of the desired state are determined preferably by a spectrograph. In a preferred embodiment each magnetic element of the magnetic structure is subjected to an in plane magnetic field or an electrical current passing through each magnetic element and the absorption of the energy is recorded. The resulting data is then used to construct the active resonance frequency and amplitude curve whereby a frequency and amplitude below the active resonance frequency and amplitude curve is insignificant to change the state of the magnetic material away from the desired magnetic state. It is important to determine the active resonance frequency and amplitude curve to avoid having the desired state inadvertently overpassed when the system is trying to bring the magnetic structure to the desired state.

The active resonance frequency and amplitude curve is preferably determined by broadband ferromagnetic resonance spectroscopy FMR . In one embodiment an electrical current through an electrical conductor preferably a coil positioned around one or more magnetic elements produces alternating magnetic fields in electromagnetic communication with each magnetic element for example but not limited to as shown in . Measurements are then taken for the resulting absorption of the electromagnetic field in the one or more magnetic elements of various frequencies. A high absorption frequency indicates the resonance frequency for the current state of the magnetic elements of the magnetic structure . In a preferred embodiment the alternating magnetic field is used to determine active resonance frequency and amplitude curve and then apply an amplitude and frequency above the determined active resonance frequency and amplitude curve until the magnetic elements reach active resonance as described herein.

In one embodiment the magnetic structure is analyzed by continually bringing the magnetic elements of the magnetic structure to the active resonance frequency of the state of the magnetic structure . For example a large amplitude at a frequency central to the various states of the magnetic structure may be used to continuously bring the magnetic structure into active resonance and thereby cycle through the various states. The active resonance frequency and amplitude curve of each state is recorded for at least the desired magnetic state.

The active resonance frequency and amplitude curve identifies the transition into active resonance of one or more magnetic elements . The active resonance of the material depends on various factors such as magnetic element material size shape distance between magnet elements the spacing or material between the magnetic elements magnetic fields external to the magnetic structure and combinations thereof. During active resonance of the magnetic elements the magnetic elements will be in a chaotic state of continuous reversals for example vortex core reversals whereby the interaction between the plurality of magnetic elements causes a continuous change in polarity of one or more magnetic elements .

Preferably the active resonance frequency which is the frequency most absorbed by the magnetic elements of the magnetic structure is determined. As the absorption by the magnetic elements of the magnetic structure us highest at the active resonance frequency the use of the frequency to change the state of the magnetic elements of the magnetic structure will require the least amount of energy. Therefore the use of a frequency approximately more preferably at the active resonance frequency to change the state of the magnetic elements of the magnetic structure is preferred. As one skilled in the art will recognize the active resonance frequency does not have to be exactly used or not used at all but additional power will be needed to have a frequency and amplitude above the transition line of the active resonance frequency and amplitude curve.

When the magnetic elements are not in active resonance below the active resonance frequency and amplitude curve they are in a natural magnetic state is a state at which the magnetic elements are in without external influence. Preferably the magnetic elements are returned to their natural state by removing the exposure of the alternating magnetic field or electrical current that drove the magnetic elements into active resonance.

When the vortex core is perturbed from its equilibrium state by an in plane oscillating field or current it begins a rotational gyrotropic oscillation with a characteristic eigenfrequency in the sub gigahertz range 5 7 . In a magnetic dot that has a single vortex state the eigenfrequency of the gyrotropic oscillations of the vortex core for both directions of the core polarity p 1 is the same. By contrast in an array of coupled elements the dynamic dipolar interaction eliminates this frequency degeneracy and results in collective gyrotropic excitations with different eigenfrequencies that depend on both the relative polarities and chiralities of the individual vortices 8 11 . An array of interacting magnetic dots form a vortex magnonic crystal 12 13 similar to the case of coupled uniformly magnetized elements 14 15 . The system can have a dynamically reconfigurable ground state characterized by different relative polarities and chiralities of the individual dots and it can have a corresponding dynamically controlled spectrum of collective excitation modes that determine the microwave absorption of the crystal.

Each magnetic element of the magnetic structure is then subjected to an alternating magnetic field or electrical current having a frequency and amplitude below the active resonance frequency and amplitude curve of the desired magnetic state and above the active resonance frequency and amplitude curve of the current state of the magnetic structure until the magnetic state of the magnetic structure is at the desired magnetic state.

The alternating magnetic field or electrical current is preferably a magnetic field or electrical current having a constant frequency with an alternating amplitude a constant amplitude with an alternating frequency or both alternating frequency and amplitude. An alternating frequency or amplitude refers to any increasing decreasing or combinations thereof waveforms in any form e.g. sinusoidal square triangle linear exponential etc. preferably at least approximately a sinusoidal waveform. In yet another embodiment the magnetic field is generated from a source producing a constant frequency and amplitude and the magnetic field is periodically moved or blocked from electromagnetic communication with one or more of the magnetic elements.

In a preferred embodiment the alternating magnetic field or electrical current is a one or more pulses preferably a single pulse designed to quickly bring the magnetic elements of the magnetic structure into active resonance only long enough to change states at least one. Therefore the one or more pulses are at a frequency and amplitude exceeding the of the active resonance frequency and amplitude curve.

In one embodiment the alternating frequency is generated by changing preferably sweeping from low to high high to low or a combination thereof the frequency of alternating magnetic field or electrical current while maintaining the amplitude of alternating magnetic field at a constant. In this embodiment the fixed amplitude is optimized to create active resonance preferably while minimizing the size and energy consumption of components in the system for example power supply or power magnets.

In yet another embodiment the alternating frequency is generated by changing preferably sweeping from low to high high to low or a combination thereof the amplitude of the alternating magnetic field or electrical current and maintain the frequency at a constant. In this embodiment the fixed amplitude is optimized to create active resonance preferably while minimizing the size and energy consumption of components in the system for example power supply power magnets etc.

In the alternative a magnetic field or electrical current having a fixed frequency and amplitude may be selectively enabled or disabled. For example one or more transistors may control current across one or more magnetic elements or one or more electromagnets for a short time period and intermittently turn on and off thereby generating an alternating frequency.

In yet another embodiment the alternating frequency is generated by changing the resonance of the plurality of magnetic elements for example by altering the temperature size of one or more of the magnetic elements. In yet another embodiment the resonance of the plurality of magnetic elements is modified by the addition of an external magnetic field preferably from a power magnet in electromagnetic communication with one or more magnetic elements.

In one embodiment the electrical resistance or other detectable characteristic of the plurality of magnetic elements are used to determine the current magnetic state of the magnetic structure. In a preferred embodiment the electrical resistance of a magnetic structure is measured for each state and recorded in a resistance table with the active resonance and amplitude curve of the corresponding magnetic state. Afterwards the state of the magnetic structure is determined by simply determining the resistance of the magnetic structure preferably using an analog to digital converter and by using Ohms Law or other resistance measuring technique and looking up the previously recorded resistance on the resistance table.

Preferably the magnetic field source is an electromagnet which produces a magnetic field in plane to the magnetic structure .

Further detail of various embodiments as described herein is described in the following publications each hereby fully incorporated by reference 

It is to be understood that the above described arrangements are only illustrative of the application of the principles of the present invention. Numerous modifications and alternative arrangements may be devised by those skilled in the art without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention and the appended claims are intended to cover such modifications and arrangements.

All publications and patent documents cited in this application are incorporated by reference in their entirety for all purposes to the same extent as if each individual publication or patent document were so individually denoted.

Any element in a claim that does not explicitly state means for performing a specified function or step for performing a specific function is not to be interpreted as a means or step clause as specified in 35 U.S.C. 112 6. In particular the use of step of in the claims herein is not intended to invoke the provisions of 35 U.S.C. 112 6.

