---

title: Authentication using fingerprint sensor in gesture path
abstract: Methods and devices for obtaining a fingerprint sample due to incidental contact with a fingerprint sensor when performing a gesture are described. In one aspect, an electronic device includes a touchscreen display and a fingerprint sensor adjacent the touchscreen display. One or more processors are associated with instructions that cause a fingerprint sample to be obtained and that cause a gesture to be detected. The gesture is characterized by input representing movement that is directed at or from the fingerprint sensor. The input is received, at least in part, at an end of the touchscreen display that is nearest the fingerprint sensor.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09020567&OS=09020567&RS=09020567
owner: BlackBerry Limited
number: 09020567
owner_city: Waterloo, Ontario
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20130405
---
The present disclosure relates to authentication and more particularly to fingerprint based authentication devices.

Electronic devices such as mobile communication devices are often used to receive and store sensitive data. For example such devices are often used in an enterprise environment where confidential information may be passed around between such devices. Device security is therefore often a concern for enterprise users.

Device security may also be an issue for non enterprise users. For example users who are using devices for personal use may wish to secure such devices so that unauthorized users such as children for example are unable to perform certain actions such as making telephone calls making long distance telephone calls accessing the Internet and or making purchases from the device.

Password based protection has historically been used to prevent electronic devices from being used by an unauthorized user. Passwords are typically alpha numeric strings or sequences that are input via a keyboard. Such protection is vulnerable to a number of attacks. For example a password guessing attack might be employed in order to gain unauthorized use of an electronic device. Unauthorized access may also be obtained in password protected environments when an unauthorized user observes entry of a password by an authorized user and makes note of the password.

In addition to the security concerns password entry may also be time consuming for a user since they are required to sequentially input a string whose security value increases with its length. As password length increases the security of the password is improved but the time required for input is also increased.

In one example aspect the present application describes an electronic device. The electronic device includes a touchscreen display and a fingerprint sensor adjacent the touchscreen display. The electronic device also includes one or more processors associated with processor executable instructions. At least one of the processors is coupled with the touchscreen display and at least one of the processors is coupled with the fingerprint sensor. The instructions include gesture recognition instructions associated with one or more of the processors that is coupled with the touchscreen display. The gesture recognition instructions are configured to cause that processor to detect a gesture that is characterized by input representing movement that is directed at or from the fingerprint sensor. The input is received at least in part at an end of the touchscreen display that is nearest the fingerprint sensor. The instructions further include fingerprint acquisition instructions associated with one or more of the processors that is coupled with the fingerprint sensor. The fingerprint acquisition instructions are configured to cause that processor to obtain a fingerprint sample from the fingerprint sensor. The instructions further include fingerprint authentication instructions associated with one or more of the processors. The fingerprint authentication instructions are configured to cause that processor to authenticate a user based on the fingerprint sample obtained from the fingerprint sensor.

In another example aspect the present application describes an electronic device. The electronic device includes a touchscreen display and a fingerprint sensor adjacent the touchscreen display. The electronic device further includes a gesture recognition component coupled with the touchscreen display. The gesture recognition component is configured to detect a gesture that is characterized by input representing movement that is directed at or from the fingerprint sensor. The input is received at least in part at an end of the touchscreen display that is nearest the fingerprint sensor. The electronic device further includes a fingerprint acquisition component coupled with the fingerprint sensor. The fingerprint acquisition component is configured to cause that processor to obtain a fingerprint sample from the fingerprint sensor.

In another example aspect the present application describes a method implemented on a processor of an electronic device. The electronic device includes a touchscreen display and a fingerprint sensor adjacent the touchscreen display. The method includes detecting a gesture that is characterized by input representing movement that is directed at or from the fingerprint sensor the input being received at least in part at an end of the touchscreen display that is nearest the fingerprint sensor obtaining a fingerprint sample from the fingerprint sensor and authenticating a user based on the fingerprint sample obtained from the fingerprint sensor.

In yet another example aspect a method is described that is implemented by a processor of an electronic device. The electronic device has one or more input interfaces associated with a predetermined gesture. The electronic device further including a fingerprint sensor placed in the path of the gesture. The method includes determining that the predetermined gesture has been performed receiving a fingerprint sample and in response to determining that the predetermined gesture has been performed performing a non authentication function. In at least some embodiments the non authentication function is a function that is not related to the unlocking of the electronic device.

In yet another example aspect an electronic device is described. The electronic device has one or more input interfaces associated with a predetermined gesture. The electronic device further includes a fingerprint sensor placed in the path of the gesture. The electronic device includes a processor that is configured for determining that the predetermined gesture has been performed receiving a fingerprint sample and in response to determining that the predetermined gesture has been performed performing a non authentication function. In at least some embodiments the non authentication function is a function that is not related to the unlocking of the electronic device.

In yet another aspect an electronic device is described. The electronic device has one or more input interfaces associated with a predetermined gesture. The electronic device further includes a fingerprint sensor placed in the path of the gesture. The electronic device includes a processor that is configured to operate in an unsecured operating mode in which a secure function is enabled receiving the predetermined gesture receive a fingerprint sample determine based on the fingerprint sample that a current user of the electronic device is an authorized user and in response to determining that the current user is an authorized user continue operating in the unsecured operating mode. In at least some embodiments the fingerprint sample is obtained without a prompt being first displayed requiring a user to input a fingerprint sample. In at least some embodiments in response to determining that the current user is an authorized user the electronic device continues to operate in the unsecured operating mode without displaying any indication that an authorization function has been performed.

In yet another aspect a method is described for implementation on a processor of an electronic device. The electronic device has one or more input interfaces associated with a predetermined gesture. The electronic device further includes a fingerprint sensor placed in the path of the gesture. The method includes operating in an unsecured operating mode in which a secure function is enabled receiving the predetermined gesture receive a fingerprint sample determining based on the fingerprint sample that a current user of the electronic device is an authorized user and in response to determining that the current user is an authorized user continue operating in the unsecured operating mode. In at least some embodiments the fingerprint sample is obtained without a prompt being first displayed requiring a user to input a fingerprint sample. In at least some embodiments in response to determining that the current user is an authorized user the electronic device continues to operate in the unsecured operating mode without displaying any indication that an authorization function has been performed.

In yet another aspect an electronic device is described. The electronic device includes a touchscreen display and an elongate fingerprint sensor having a length corresponding to a dimension of the touchscreen display. The fingerprint sensor is provided on the electronic device at a location in which a finger performing a gesture on the touchscreen display is likely to engage the fingerprint sensor.

Other example embodiments of the present disclosure will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art from a review of the following detailed description in conjunction with the drawings.

Example embodiments of the present disclosure are not limited to any particular operating system electronic device architecture server architecture or computer programming language.

According to some example embodiments described herein methods and devices are described in which a fingerprint sensor is placed in the path of a gesture which is associated with a function on an electronic device. The function is in at least some embodiments a function that is not related to authentication. For example the function may involve displaying particular content on a display. That is the gesture may be interpreted as a command to display particular content on a display such as a recently received electronic message in some examples. When a user performs the gesture in order perform the function they may also engage the fingerprint sensor since the sensor is placed in a location in which it is likely to be engaged when the gesture is performed. Thus a fingerprint sample may be captured unobtrusively. In some embodiments such capture may be performed unbeknownst to the user. For example the fingerprint sample is in at least some embodiments captured without any prompt first being displayed to a user to suggest to the user that a fingerprint sample is required. Since the fingerprint sensor is placed in the path of the gesture authentication of the user based on the fingerprint may be performed as a background process while the user is doing other things on the device.

An overview of some example embodiments having been provided reference will now be made to which illustrates an example electronic device in which example embodiments described in the present disclosure can be applied. In the example embodiment illustrated the electronic device is a mobile communication device. That is the electronic device is configured to communicate with other electronic devices servers and or systems i.e. it is a communication device and the electronic device is portable and may be easily moved between different physical locations i.e. it is a mobile device . However in other example embodiments the electronic device may not be portable i.e. may not be a mobile device and or may not be configured to communicate with other systems i.e. may not be a communication device .

Depending on the functionality provided by the electronic device in various example embodiments the electronic device may be a multiple mode communication device configured for both data and voice communication a mobile telephone such as a smartphone a wearable computer such as a watch a tablet computer such as a slate computer a personal digital assistant PDA or a computer system. The electronic device may take other forms apart from those specifically listed above. The electronic device may also in various example embodiments be referred to as a mobile communications device a communication device a mobile device an electronic device and in some cases as a device.

The electronic device includes a controller including at least one processor such as a microprocessor which controls the overall operation of the electronic device . The processor interacts with device subsystems such as a communication subsystem which may be a wireless communication subsystem configured for exchanging radio frequency signals with a wireless network to perform communication functions. The processor may be communicably coupled with additional device subsystems including one or more output interfaces such as a display which may be part of a touchscreen display and or a speaker one or more input interfaces such as a camera a microphone a keyboard not shown control buttons not shown a touch sensitive overlay associated with a touchscreen display a fingerprint sensor and or other input interfaces memory such as flash memory random access memory RAM read only memory ROM etc. auxiliary input output I O subsystems a data port which may be a serial data port such as a Universal Serial Bus USB data port a short range wireless communication subsystem and other device subsystems generally designated as . Some of the subsystems shown in perform communication related functions whereas other subsystems may provide resident or on device functions.

In at least some example embodiments the electronic device may include a touchscreen display which acts as both an input interface i.e. touch sensitive overlay and an output interface i.e. display . The touchscreen display may be constructed using a touch sensitive input surface referred to as a touch sensitive overlay which is connected to an electronic controller and which overlays the display . The touch sensitive overlay and the electronic controller provide a touch sensitive input interface and the processor interacts with the touch sensitive overlay via the electronic controller .

The electronic device may include a communication subsystem which allows the electronic device to communicate over a network such as a wireless network. The particular design of the communication subsystem depends on the wireless network in which the electronic device is intended to operate.

As noted above the electronic device may include auxiliary input output I O subsystems . The auxiliary I O subsystems may include an Ethernet connection in some embodiments. In some embodiments the auxiliary I O subsystems may include a vibrator for providing vibratory notifications in response to various events on the electronic device such as receipt of an electronic communication or incoming phone call or for other purposes such as haptic feedback touch feedback .

In at least some example embodiments the electronic device also includes a removable memory module which may be flash memory such as a removable memory card and a memory interface . Network access may be associated with a subscriber or user of the electronic device via the memory module which may be a Subscriber Identity Module SIM card for use in a GSM network or other type of memory card for use in the relevant wireless network type. The memory module is inserted in or connected to the memory card interface of the electronic device in order to operate in conjunction with the wireless network.

The data port may be used for synchronization with a user s host computer system not shown . The data port enables a user to set preferences through an external device or software application and extends the capabilities of the electronic device by providing for information or software downloads to the electronic device other than through the wireless network. The alternate download path may for example be used to load an encryption key onto the electronic device through a direct reliable and trusted connection to thereby provide secure device communication.

The electronic device also includes a fingerprint sensor . The fingerprint sensor is configured to capture a fingerprint sample of a user when that user s finger engages the fingerprint sensor . The fingerprint sample includes fingerprint data representing the fingerprint of the user. The fingerprint data may for example specify a fingerprint pattern of the user. The fingerprint sensor may for example be a capacitance sensor fingerprint sensor . In a capacitance sensor fingerprint sensor pixels of a sensor array each act as one plate of an effective parallel plate capacitor. The dermal layer of the user s finger acts as the other plate and the epidermal layer acts as a dielectric. Capacitance sensors can be passive or active. Passive sensors use measured capacitance to distinguish between ridges and valleys on the finger. Active sensors apply a voltage to the skin of the finger before taking the measurements which charges the effective capacitor creating an electric field that follows the pattern of ridges on the skin. The voltage across the dermal layer and the sensor array on the discharge cycle is compared to a reference voltage to calculate capacitance and thus distinguish between ridges and valleys. In other embodiments the fingerprint sensor is an RF based sensor. In other embodiments the fingerprint sensor is an optical sensor. Optical sensors capture a digital image of the finger that is touching the sensor. In still other embodiments the fingerprint sensor is an ultrasonic sensor which uses measurements from reflected high frequency sound waves to form an image of the fingerprint.

The fingerprint sensor is coupled to at least one processor or controller that is configured to control the fingerprint sensor . More particularly the processor that is connected to the fingerprint sensor contains processor executable instructions which when executed cause the processor to obtain a fingerprint sample from the fingerprint sensor when a finger contacts the fingerprint sensor . These processor executable instructions may be referred to as fingerprint acquisition instructions . The processor that is configured to perform the fingerprint acquisition features described herein may be referred to as a fingerprint acquisition component. In the embodiment illustrated the main processor of the electronic device is coupled with the fingerprint sensor and is configured to perform the fingerprint acquisition features described herein.

In at least some example embodiments the electronic device is provided with a service routing application programming interface API which provides an application with the ability to route traffic through a serial data i.e. USB or Bluetooth Bluetooth is a registered trademark of Bluetooth SIG Inc. connection to a host computer system using standard connectivity protocols. When a user connects their electronic device to the host computer system via a USB cable or Bluetooth connection traffic that was destined for the wireless network is automatically routed to the electronic device using the USB cable or Bluetooth connection. Similarly any traffic destined for the wireless network is automatically sent over the USB cable or Bluetooth connection to the host computer system for processing.

The electronic device also includes a power source such as a battery which may include one or more rechargeable batteries that may be charged for example through charging circuitry coupled to a battery interface such as the data port . The battery provides electrical power to at least some of the electrical circuitry in the electronic device and the battery interface provides a mechanical and electrical connection for the battery . The battery interface is coupled to a regulator not shown which provides power V to the circuitry of the electronic device .

The electronic device stores data in an erasable persistent memory which in one example embodiment is the flash memory . In various example embodiments the data includes service data including information used by the electronic device to establish and maintain communication with the wireless network. The data may also include user application data such as email messages address book and contact information camera data calendar and schedule information notepad documents image files and other commonly stored user information stored on the electronic device by its user and other data. In at least some embodiments the data includes user fingerprint profile data . The user fingerprint profile data may include one or more fingerprint samples associated with a user. A fingerprint sample includes fingerprint data that electronically represents a user s fingerprint. More particularly the stored fingerprint samples represent the fingerprint of an authorized user of the electronic device . The authorized user of the electronic device is in some embodiments a person who is authorized to use the electronic device . In such embodiments unauthorized users are users who do not have associated fingerprint data stored in memory and who are not permitted to use the electronic device . In other embodiments an authorized user of the electronic device is a person who is authorized to use one or more predetermined features of the electronic device and an unauthorized user is a person who is not permitted to use the one or more predetermined features. Such predetermined features may include for example the ability to place a telephone call make a long distance telephone call use the Internet access a secure area of memory of the electronic device or a secure program associated with the electronic device.

The data stored in the persistent memory e.g. flash memory of the electronic device may be organized at least partially into one or more databases or data stores. The databases or data stores may contain data items of the same data type or associated with the same application. For example email messages contact records and task items may be stored in individual databases within the memory.

The electronic device may in at least some example embodiments be a mobile communication device which may provide two principal modes of communication a data communication mode and a voice communication mode. In the data communication mode a received data signal such as a text message an email message or a web page download will be processed by the communication subsystem and input to the processor for further processing. For example a downloaded web page may be further processed by a browser application or an email message may be processed by an email messaging application and output to the display . A user of the electronic device may also compose data items such as email messages for example using an input interface in conjunction with the display such as the touch sensitive overlay . These composed items may be transmitted through the wireless communication subsystem over the wireless network.

In the voice communication mode the electronic device provides telephony functions and operates as a typical cellular phone. The overall operation is similar to the data communication mode except that the received signals would be output to the speaker and signals for transmission would be generated by a transducer such as the microphone . The telephony functions are provided by a combination of software firmware i.e. a voice communication module and hardware i.e. the microphone the speaker and input interfaces . Alternative voice or audio I O subsystems such as a voice message recording subsystem may also be implemented on the electronic device . Although voice or audio signal output is typically accomplished primarily through the speaker the display may also be used to provide an indication of the identity of a calling party duration of a voice call or other voice call related information.

The processor operates under stored program control and executes software modules stored in memory such as persistent memory for example in the flash memory . As illustrated in the software modules include operating system software and other software applications .

The software applications on the electronic device may also include a range of additional applications including for example a notepad application internet browser application a camera application a voice communication i.e. telephony application a mapping application and or a media player application or any combination thereof. Each of the software applications may include layout information defining the placement of particular fields and graphic elements e.g. text fields input fields icons etc. in the user interface e.g. the display according to the application.

The software modules include processor executable instructions which when executed cause the processor and or other modules to perform predetermined functions. In the example illustrated these processor executable instructions include gesture recognition instructions fingerprint acquisition instructions and authentication instructions . The gesture recognition instructions are configured to determine based on input received via the touch sensitive overlay of the touchscreen display whether one or more predetermined gestures has been performed. In at least some embodiments the gesture recognition instructions are configured to cause the processor to detect a gesture that is characterized by input representing movement that is directed at or from the fingerprint sensor and that is received at least in part at an end of the display that is nearest the fingerprint sensor . Example gestures that may be detected will be described in greater detail below with reference to .

The fingerprint acquisition instructions are configured to cause the processor to obtain fingerprint samples from the fingerprint sensor . The processor associated with the fingerprint acquisition instructions may therefore act as a controller for the fingerprint sensor .

The authentication instructions are configured to cause the processor to authenticate a user of the electronic device based on the fingerprint sample obtained from the fingerprint sensor . That is the authentication instructions are configured to use the fingerprint sample and user fingerprint profile data stored in memory to determine whether the current user of the electronic device is an authorized user of the electronic device. More particularly a comparison between the current user s fingerprint as represented in the fingerprint sample and that of the authorized user is performed to determine whether the current user is the same person as the authorized user. If the current user is an authorized user then one or more features of the electronic device that are available only to authorized users is enabled such features may be referred to as secure features and or the electronic device itself may be enabled. By way of example secure features may include the ability to make a telephone from the electronic device make a long distance telephone from the electronic device send an electronic message from the electronic device access the Internet access a secure area of memory access a secure application delete a file or application or initiate a download or an upload of data. Other secure features may be provided in other embodiments. If the current user is not an authorized user then the one or more secure features may be disabled and or the electronic device itself may be disabled.

The authentication instructions are in at least some embodiments configured to operate as a background process i.e. performed while the device appears to be doing other things . More particularly a fingerprint sample may be captured passively. The fingerprint sensor may be captured when a user happens to place their finger over the fingerprint sensor . When a user performs a gesture in order perform a function associated with that gesture they may also engage the fingerprint sensor since the sensor is placed in a location in which it is likely to be engaged when the gesture is performed. In response a fingerprint sample is obtained. In some embodiments such capture may be performed unbeknownst to the user. For example the fingerprint sample is in at least some embodiments captured without any prompt first being displayed to a user to suggest to the user that a fingerprint sample is required. Since the fingerprint sensor is placed in the path of the gesture authentication of the user based on the fingerprint may be performed as a background process while the user is doing other things on the device.

The gesture recognition instructions the fingerprint acquisition instructions and the authentication instructions are illustrated as being associated with a common processor which in the example embodiment is the main processor of the electronic device . It will however be appreciated that processing may be divided among a plurality of processors. Accordingly any one or more of the gesture recognition instructions the fingerprint acquisition instructions and or the authentication instructions may be associated with separate processors or components apart from the main processor . For example one or more application specific processors may be used in order to offload some of the processing capacity from the main processor. The gesture recognition instructions are however typically associated with a processor that is coupled with the touchscreen display to allow that processor to interpret input received via the touch sensitive overlay as one or more gestures. The processor that is associated with the gesture recognition instructions may be referred to as a gesture recognition component.

Similarly the fingerprint acquisition instructions are typically associated with a processor that is coupled with the fingerprint sensor to allow that processor to interpret input received via the fingerprint sensor . The processor that is associated with the fingerprint acquisition instructions may be referred to as a fingerprint acquisition component.

In the example shown the main processor is coupled with both the fingerprint sensor and the touchscreen display allowing it to execute both the fingerprint acquisition instructions and the gesture recognition instructions . Thus in this example the main processor acts as both the gesture recognition component and the fingerprint acquisition component.

Furthermore while the authentication instructions the fingerprint acquisition instructions and the gesture recognition instructions are illustrated as being separate from the operating system in some embodiments one or more of these instructions may be provided in the operating system .

The software modules or parts thereof may be temporarily loaded into volatile memory such as the RAM . The RAM is used for storing runtime data variables and other types of data or information as will be apparent. Although specific functions are described for various types of memory this is merely one example and it will be appreciated that a different assignment of functions to types of memory could also be used.

A predetermined set of applications that control basic device operations including data and possibly voice communication applications will normally be installed on the electronic device during or after manufacture. Additional applications and or upgrades to the operating system or software applications may also be loaded onto the electronic device through the wireless network the auxiliary I O subsystem the data port the short range communication subsystem or other suitable device subsystem . The downloaded programs or code modules may be permanently installed for example written into the program memory i.e. the flash memory or written into and executed from the RAM for execution by the processor at runtime.

As discussed above the electronic device may take a variety of forms. For example in at least some example embodiments the electronic device may be a smartphone or a tablet.

Referring to a front view of an example electronic device is illustrated. The example electronic device includes a touchscreen display . The example touchscreen display is provided on the front face of the electronic device . The touchscreen display is centrally positioned on the front face of the electronic device . That is the touchscreen display has a center point that is positioned equidistant from a left side and a right side of the electronic device i.e. it is horizontally centered . In the example illustrated the center point of the touchscreen display is also positioned equidistant from a top side and a bottom side of the electronic device i.e. it is vertically centered however in other example embodiments the touchscreen display may not be vertically centered. In the example embodiment the touchscreen display is rectangular in shape.

A fingerprint sensor is disposed on the electronic device adjacent the touchscreen display . In the example illustrated the fingerprint sensor is immediately adjacent the touchscreen display . That is the fingerprint sensor abuts the touchscreen display such that no gap or a very small gap exists between the display and the fingerprint sensor . In at least some embodiments the fingerprint sensor and the display are separated by a gap that is less than one millimeter i.e. the distance between the fingerprint sensor and the nearest end of the display is less than 1 mm . The small size of the gap increases the likelihood that the fingerprint sensor is engaged while a gesture is being performed using the touchscreen display . That is by positioning the fingerprint sensor immediately adjacent to the touchscreen display a gesture performed on the touchscreen display causes incidental contact with the fingerprint sensor . More particularly a finger performing a gesture near an end of the display that is near the fingerprint sensor may incidentally engage the fingerprint sensor . By positioning the fingerprint sensor in such close proximity to the display fingerprint samples may be acquired during inadvertent contact with the fingerprint sensor .

In the embodiment illustrated the fingerprint sensor is positioned adjacent to the top end of the touchscreen display i.e. near the top side of the electronic device . However it will be appreciated that the fingerprint sensor may be positioned on other sides of the electronic device in other embodiments.

In some embodiments not shown in order to increase the likelihood of engaging a fingerprint sensor through contact that is incident while performing a gesture a plurality of fingerprint sensors may be provided on the electronic device . Each fingerprint sensor may be provided on a different side of the display i.e. near a different side of the electronic device . For example a first fingerprint sensor may be disposed on a first side of the display and near a first side of the electronic device and a second fingerprint sensor may be disposed on a second side of the display and near a second side of the electronic device . In some embodiments a third fingerprint sensor may also be disposed on a third side of the display and near a third side of the electronic device . In some embodiments a fourth fingerprint sensor may also be included. The fourth fingerprint sensor may be located near a fourth side of the display and near a fourth side of the electronic device . Thus in at least some embodiments a separate fingerprint sensor is associated with each side of the electronic device .

In the embodiment illustrated the fingerprint sensor is aligned with the touchscreen display . More particularly the fingerprint sensor and the touchscreen display are centered about a common axis which in the embodiment illustrated is an axis that runs midway between the left side and the right side of the electronic device and midway between right and left sides of the fingerprint sensor and midway between right and left side of the touchscreen display .

In the embodiment illustrated the fingerprint sensor is an elongate fingerprint sensor . The length of the fingerprint sensor may correspond to a dimension of the touchscreen display . For example the length of the fingerprint sensor may be the same or approximately the same i.e. within 10 difference as the length of the side of the display that is adjacent to the fingerprint sensor . For example in the embodiment illustrated the fingerprint sensor is adjacent to a top end of the touchscreen display . In this example the fingerprint sensor has a length that corresponds to that of the top end . More particularly in the example illustrated the length of the fingerprint sensor corresponds to the width of the touchscreen display . Since the length of the fingerprint sensor corresponds to the length of the side of the display that is nearest the fingerprint sensor the likelihood of engaging the fingerprint sensor through incidental contact while performing a gesture on the touchscreen display is increased.

Accordingly a finger of a user s hand not shown may engage the fingerprint sensor while a gesture is being performed on the touchscreen display . An example of how this might occur will be discussed with reference to example gestures . These gestures are illustrated using a circle which illustrates an initial point of contact and a line with an arrow to indicate the directions of movement associated with each gesture . This manner of illustration is used throughout the figures to denote gestures.

A gesture recognition component associated with the electronic device may be configured to recognize predetermined gestures . More particularly gesture recognition instructions that are associated with one or more processors of the electronic device that are coupled with the touchscreen display may be configured to cause at least one of those processors to detect a gesture that is characterized by input representing movement that is directed at in the case of gesture the fingerprint sensor or that is directed away in the case of gesture from the fingerprint sensor . That is the gestures are characterized by movement that is directed away from the fingerprint sensor or that is characterized by movement that is directed towards the fingerprint sensor . The gestures are in at least some embodiments swipe gestures. The movement associated with the gestures includes an on screen component and an off screen component which is illustrated in using a broken line to distinguish from the on screen component which is illustrated using a solid line . The on screen component is the portion of the movement that engages the touchscreen display . The off screen component is the portion of the movement that does not engage the touchscreen display . Since the on screen component consists of movement that contacts the touchscreen display the on screen component produces an input at the touchscreen display which may be analyzed in order to determine that the gesture has been performed. The off screen component is in at least some embodiments not used for the purpose of gesture detection. The off screen component illustrates how incidental contact with the fingerprint sensor may be caused due to the performance of a gesture.

As illustrated the gestures are also characterized by input received at the end of the touchscreen display that is nearest the fingerprint sensor . That is when the gesture is performed the on screen component of the movement engages the end of the touchscreen display so that incidental contact with the fingerprint sensor is likely.

The first gesture that is illustrated is a swipe towards fingerprint sensor gesture. This gesture is characterized by input representing a swipe in the direction of the fingerprint sensor . That is the on screen component of the movement associated with the gesture is directed at the fingerprint sensor . The first gesture is characterized by movement between a portion of the touchscreen display that is away from the fingerprint sensor to a portion of the touchscreen display that is immediately adjacent to the fingerprint sensor .

The second gesture that is illustrated is a swipe from fingerprint sensor gesture. This gesture is characterized by input representing a swipe away from the fingerprint sensor . That is the on screen component of the movement associated with the gesture is directed away from the fingerprint sensor . The second gesture is characterized by movement between a portion of the touchscreen display that is immediately adjacent to the fingerprint sensor to a portion of the touchscreen display that is away from the fingerprint sensor .

The fingerprint sensor may be incidentally engaged while either the first gesture or the second gesture is being performed. When the first gesture is performed the fingerprint sensor may be engaged after the display is engaged. In contrast when the second gesture is performed the fingerprint sensor may be engaged before the display is engaged. Accordingly the gestures may involve movement that engages both the touchscreen display and the fingerprint sensor .

The gesture may be associated with a function apart from authentication. That is the gesture may be associated with a function on the electronic device that is unrelated to authentication. One or more of the processors of the electronic device may be associated with instructions that cause one or more of the processors to perform at least one function apart from authentication of a fingerprint sample in response to detecting the gesture. That is the gesture is performed in order to cause the electronic device to do something else such as for example to scroll a displayed page display a message etc. For example in some embodiments the first gesture and or the second gesture illustrated in may be associated with a scroll command. Accordingly the gesture is being used for a purpose that is unrelated to the authentication but a fingerprint sample is acquired and possibly authenticated due to the incidental contact with the fingerprint sensor that is caused by performance of the gesture .

As noted above in some embodiments gestures are performed which do not require contact with the fingerprint sensor but which cause incidental contact with the fingerprint sensor due to the nature of the gesture and or the arrangement and configuration of the fingerprint sensor . In other embodiments contact with the fingerprint sensor may be necessary and not incidental to the performance of the gesture. More particularly in some embodiments the gesture recognition instructions may cause a processor that is coupled with the fingerprint sensor and also with the touchscreen display to utilize input from both the touchscreen display and the fingerprint sensor for the purpose of gesture identification. That is the gesture recognition instructions cause the processor to determine that the gesture has been performed based on input received at the fingerprint sensor and the touchscreen display . In some such embodiments the gesture that is identified may be referred to as an off screen swipe gesture since such a gesture requires a portion of the movement to be performed off screen. By way of example in some embodiments the gesture recognition instructions may cause the processor to recognize an off screen swipe gesture if the following conditions are determined to be satisfied 1 a swipe towards fingerprint sensor gesture is detected based on input received from the touchscreen display and 2 the fingerprint sensor is engaged within a predetermined threshold of time following the swipe towards fingerprint sensor gesture. By way of further example in some embodiments an off screen swipe gesture may be recognized if the following conditions are determined to be satisfied 1 the fingerprint sensor is engaged and 2 a swipe from fingerprint sensor gesture is detected based on input received from the touchscreen display within a predetermined threshold of time after the fingerprint sensor was engaged.

Thus in such embodiments the fingerprint sensor serves a dual purpose it is used for fingerprint acquisition for authentication purposes and it is used as an input device for gesture recognition purposes.

It will be appreciated that illustrates an external face of the electronic device and that other components will be included on the electronic device that may not be visible from the outside of the electronic device . For example the electronic device may have the components described above with reference to .

Furthermore while generally described gestures which where input on a single device in other embodiments the gesture recognition component associated with the electronic device may be configured to recognize predetermined gestures that engage a plurality of electronic devices. For example the electronic device may be configured to recognize a gesture that is characterized by a swipe from a touchscreen display of one of the electronic devices to a touchscreen display of the other of the electronic devices. Since at least one of the electronic devices includes a fingerprint sensor that is adjacent to the touchscreen display of that device the multi device swipe may engage the fingerprint sensor . When this happens a fingerprint sample may be acquired. Thus in at least some embodiments a multi device swipe gesture may be defined which causes incidental contact with the fingerprint sensor thereby allowing a fingerprint sample to be acquired.

Referring now to a front view of an alternative electronic device is illustrated. The electronic device illustrated in has a number of features in common with the example electronic device of . Common reference numerals are used to denote similar components.

In the example of a touchscreen display is provided on the front face of the electronic device . The touchscreen display is in the example centrally positioned on the front face of the electronic device and is rectangular in shape. That is the touchscreen display has a center point that is positioned equidistant from a left side and a right side of the electronic device i.e. it is horizontally centered . In the example illustrated the center point of the touchscreen display is also positioned equidistant from a top side and a bottom side of the electronic device i.e. it is vertically centered however in other example embodiments the touchscreen display may not be vertically centered. In the example embodiment the touchscreen display is rectangular in shape.

A fingerprint sensor is disposed on the electronic device adjacent the touchscreen display . In some embodiments the fingerprint sensor may be positioned immediately adjacent to the touchscreen display . That is in some embodiments the fingerprint sensor abuts the touchscreen display such that no gap or a very small gap exists between the display and the fingerprint sensor . As noted in the discussion of above this allows the fingerprint sensor to be engaged through incidental contact while a gesture is being performed on the touchscreen display . As will be described in greater detail below the embodiment of uses a further technique in order to increase likelihood of contact with the fingerprint sensor i.e. a technique apart from the small gap . Thus in at least some embodiments a larger gap may exist between the touchscreen display and the fingerprint sensor .

In the example illustrated the fingerprint sensor is located adjacent to the top end of the touchscreen display . However other orientations are possible.

As noted previously in the discussion of the touchscreen display may be include a display and an input component which may be referred to as a first input component which is touch sensitive. This input component may be referred to as a touch sensitive overlay .

As noted above the embodiment in uses a further technique in order increase the likelihood of contact with the fingerprint sensor . More particularly an indicator and or a second input component is are disposed on a side of the fingerprint sensor that is opposite the side of the fingerprint sensor that is nearest the touchscreen display . That is in embodiments in which the indicator is included the fingerprint sensor may be located between the indicator and the touchscreen display . Similarly in embodiments in which the second input component is included the fingerprint sensor may be located between the second input component and the touchscreen display .

Similar to the electronic device described with reference to the electronic device of may include gesture recognition instructions which are associated with at least one processor that is coupled with the touchscreen display . The gesture recognition instructions are configured to cause that processor to detect a gesture that is characterized by input representing movement that is directed at or from the fingerprint sensor . This input is received at least in part at an end of the touchscreen display that is nearest the fingerprint sensor .

A second input component is a component that is capable of receiving input. In at least some embodiments the second input component is a touch sensitive input component that is configured to receive input in response to touch based activation. Such input may be provided in the form of electrical signal representing input received at the second input component to a processor associated with the gesture recognition instructions and used in order to identify a gesture . That is in embodiments in which a second input component is used the gesture recognition instructions may be configured to cause the processor associated with the gesture recognition instructions to use both input received from the touchscreen display and input received from the second input component in order to detect a gesture . The gesture may require interaction with both the touchscreen display which acts as a first input component due to the presence of the touch sensitive overlay and the second input component . That is the gesture is characterized by movement that engages both the first input component and the second input component. For example in at least some embodiments the gesture may be a swipe gesture that begins at the touchscreen display and that ends at the second input component . Or a gesture may occur along the reverse path a swipe begins at the second input component and ends at the touchscreen display . Since the fingerprint sensor is located between the touchscreen display and the second input component the fingerprint sensor is activated when the gesture is performed. That is while performing the gesture the fingerprint sensor is activated as the finger of a user travels from the touchscreen display to the second input component or vice versa passing over top of the fingerprint sensor along the way.

Thus the gesture recognition instructions may in at least some embodiments define a swipe gesture between the touchscreen device and the second input component . Due to the arrangement of the fingerprint sensor the touchscreen device and the second input component the fingerprint sensor is activated during performance of the gesture. Thus a fingerprint sample is acquired during performance of the gesture.

In some embodiments the second input component functions as an indicator . An indicator is a component that is used to convey information. For example the second input component may be used to indicate a status of the electronic device and or to convey other information to a user. Thus the second input component may be an output device. For example in at least some embodiments the second input component may be a second touchscreen display.

As with the gestures discussed with reference to the gesture s of may be associated with a function apart from authentication. That is the gesture may be associated with a function on the electronic device that is unrelated to authentication. Where the gesture is based on movement that is directed at or from an indicator the function associated with the gesture may depend of the indicator. For example a swipe from an indicator to the touchscreen display may be used to cause the touchscreen display to display content associated with the indicator . For example the indicator may be set to a particular state when a new electronic message is received at the electronic device e.g. if the indicator is a display it may display an indication that a new message has arrived such as New Message and or may display some information about the message for example E mail from Jeff . In such embodiments a gesture which is a swipe gesture from the indicator to the touchscreen display may cause the associated message to be opened and displayed on the touchscreen display .

In some embodiments an indicator may be used that is not an input device. That is an indicator may be used that does not also function as a second input component . In some such embodiments the gesture recognition instructions may cause an associated processor to recognize a swipe between the touchscreen display and the indicator based only on the input received at the touchscreen display . For example the gesture recognition instructions are configured to effectively know the location of the indicator relative to the touchscreen display . That is the indicator is associated with a predetermined location i.e. relative to the touchscreen display which is known to the gesture recognition instructions . The gesture recognition instructions may therefore configure a processor to determine whether a swipe from indicator gesture which may also be referred to as a swipe from predetermined location gesture has been performed. This gesture is characterized by input representing movement having a trajectory that indicates that the movement originated from the predetermined location associated with the indicator . Thus the trajectory of a swipe gesture received at the touchscreen display that begins at the end of the touchscreen display may be analyzed to determine whether the trajectory of the movement suggests that the movement originated at the location associated with the indicator .

Similarly the gesture recognition instructions may configure a processor to determine whether a swipe towards indicator gesture which may also be referred to as a swipe towards predetermined location gesture has been performed. This gesture is characterized by input representing movement having a trajectory that indicates that the movement will pass from the touchscreen display to the indicator i.e. to the predetermined location associated with the indicator . Thus the trajectory of a swipe gesture received at the touchscreen display that ends at the end of the touchscreen gesture may be analyzed to determine whether the trajectory of the movement suggests that the movement will continue on to the location associated with the indicator.

Thus the gesture recognition instructions may be configured to use a trajectory based analysis to determine whether a gesture associated with both the touchscreen display and a separate indicator has been performed. This analysis may extrapolate the path of the movement indicated by the touchscreen input to determine whether the movement is likely to intersect the indicator . This analysis may for example determine an angle of the movement received at the very end of the display and may also in some embodiments consider the velocity of the movement i.e. to determine whether the movement is likely to continue the distance to the indicator or end before reaching the indicator .

This trajectory based analysis that only relies on input from the touchscreen display may be used for example when an indicator is used that does not function as an input component i.e. when it is an indicator and not a second input component . As noted above if the indicator functions as an input component then the input associated with the indicator i.e. the input from the second input component may be used together with the input from the touchscreen display to determine whether the gesture has been performed.

The indicator is located at a predetermined location on the electronic device that is opposite the side of the fingerprint sensor that is nearest the touchscreen display . That is indicator and the touchscreen display are at opposite sides of the fingerprint sensor . Thus performance of the swipe from indicator gesture or the swipe towards indicator gesture is likely to cause contact with the fingerprint sensor .

The indicator may take a variety of forms. For example the indicator may be any one of an output device such as a secondary display e.g. a micro display or a light emitting diode LED a logo printed onto a surface of the electronic device or an indicator of another type. In some embodiments the indicator is an output device and a processor coupled with the indicator is configured to change the state of the indicator when one or more predetermined criterion is satisfied. For example upon receiving a new electronic message at the electronic device the state of the indicator may be updated to indicate to a user that the new message has been received. In at least some such embodiments the gesture recognition instructions are configured to cause at least one processor to monitor for the swipe from indicator gesture when the state of the indicator corresponds to a predetermined state. For example if the state of the indicator suggests that a new electronic message is available the monitoring for the gesture may begin. Accordingly in some embodiments the monitoring for the swipe from indicator gesture may begin shortly after the state of the indicator is changed e.g. to signify a new message .

In the example illustrated the fingerprint sensor is an elongate fingerprint sensor which has a length that is greater than the width of a typical human finger. The length of the fingerprint sensor is also greater than the length of the indicator . In the example illustrated the length of the fingerprint sensor is less than the length of the touchscreen display taken along the end of the touchscreen display nearest the fingerprint sensor . However in other examples the length of the fingerprint sensor may correspond to the length of a dimension of the touchscreen display . For example the fingerprint sensor and the touchscreen display may have a length relationship that corresponds to that illustrated in and described above in the discussion of that figure.

It will be appreciated that illustrates an external face of the electronic device and that other components will be included on the electronic device that may not be visible from the outside of the electronic device . For example the electronic device may have the components described above with reference to .

Referring now to illustrated is a further example of an electronic device which is arranged to acquire a fingerprint sample through incidental contact with a fingerprint sensor while a gesture is being performed.

The electronic device of includes a touchscreen display which is constructed of a display which acts as an output device and a touch sensitive overlay which acts as an input device . As with the embodiments of a fingerprint sensor is included on the electronic device at a location in which incidental activation is likely when a predetermined gesture is performed. More particularly in this example the fingerprint sensor is mounted at a location which is adjacent to the display . In the example illustrated the fingerprint sensor is disposed on the electronic device adjacent the end of the display .

In this example the electronic device includes an active bezel . More particularly a bezel frames the display associated with the touchscreen display . The bezel is a frame for the display . The bezel may for example be constructed of plastic or metal or of another suitable material. A surface of the bezel may be flush with a surface of the display and in some embodiments the bezel and the touchscreen display may share some components. For example a common piece of glass may cover both the display and the bezel .

The bezel is active since at least a portion of the bezel has a touch sensitive overlay associated therewith. The touch sensitive overlay is capable of receiving a touch based input. That is the touch sensitive overlay generates an electronic signal in response to touch based activation. Example touch sensitive technology is described above with reference to .

In the example illustrated the touch sensitive overlay that is associated with the touchscreen display extends over at least a portion of the bezel . That is the size of the touch sensitive overlay is greater than the size of the display so that it extends over a surface of the bezel . Thus the touch sensitive overlay is used to provide input at locations associated with the display and also at locations associated with the bezel . Since the touch sensitive overlay is located on top of the display and the bezel the display has been illustrated with broken lines. However it will be appreciated that the touch sensitive overlay is transparent and that the display can therefore be viewed through the overlay .

Thus at least a portion of the bezel is touch sensitive. The touch sensitive portion of the bezel may include a portion which is located on a side of the fingerprint sensor that is opposite the display . Accordingly the electronic device is touch sensitive on two opposing sides of the fingerprint sensor one of these sides has the display and one has a touch sensitive portion of the bezel .

One or more gestures may be defined by the gesture recognition instructions to require contact on both of these opposing sides. More particularly the gesture recognition instructions may be configured to recognize a gesture that is characterized by a swipe involving both the bezel i.e. at the portion and the display . That is the gesture may be characterized by a swipe that travels between a location associated with the display and a location that is associated with the portion of the bezel that is opposite the display such a gesture causes a finger to pass over the fingerprint sensor where a fingerprint sample is obtained.

For example a first gesture is a swipe from off screen gesture. This gesture is characterized by a swipe movement that is initiated at the portion of the bezel that is on the side of the fingerprint sensor that is opposite the display and which then moves towards the display travelling overtop of the fingerprint sensor as it does so where a fingerprint sample is obtained .

Similarly a second gesture is a swipe to off screen gesture. This gesture is characterized by a swipe movement that is initiated at the display i.e. it first contacts the overlay at a position associated with the display which then moves towards the portion of the bezel that is on the side of the fingerprint sensor that is opposite the display . In doing so the finger performing the gesture travels overtop the fingerprint sensor where a fingerprint sample is obtained. Both of these gestures may be detected using input from the touch sensitive overlay .

As noted in the discussions of the previous example electronic devices of contact with the fingerprint sensor is made while a finger is performing a gesture having an associated function that is unrelated to authentication. That is in response to detecting the gesture the electronic device may perform a non authentication related function. Accordingly the user may perform the gesture in order to perform a non authentication function on the electronic device and while doing so the electronic device may acquire a fingerprint sample at the fingerprint sensor and may utilize that fingerprint sample for some authentication related activity. For example when the fingerprint sample is acquired the electronic device may automatically update user fingerprint profile data to build a fingerprint profile for the current user i.e. this may be done if the electronic device is already in a state in which it is confident that the user is an authorized user e.g. if the device has recently been unlocked by an authorized user . In some examples when the fingerprint sample is acquired the electronic device may automatically authenticate the current user of the electronic device based on the fingerprint sample and user fingerprint profile data stored in memory.

In the example illustrated the fingerprint sensor is illustrated as being placed over top of the touch sensitive overlay and over top of the bezel . However in other embodiments the fingerprint sensor may be provided in another way. For example to avoid having a fingerprint sensor that protrudes from the electronic device an opening may be provided in the overlay and the bezel to allow the fingerprint sensor to effectively have an exterior surface that is approximately flush with the touch sensitive surface of the overlay .

In the example illustrated the fingerprint sensor is an elongate fingerprint sensor having a length that corresponds to that of the touchscreen overlay . More particularly in the example illustrated the length of the fingerprint sensor is approximately the same e.g. within 10 as the width of the touchscreen overlay . This length relationship provides a relatively large probability of contacting the fingerprint sensor when performing a gesture of the type described above.

The length of the fingerprint sensor may differ from the length of the touchscreen overlay in at least some embodiments. For example in some embodiments not shown the length of the fingerprint sensor may correspond to a length of the display .

In the embodiment illustrated the fingerprint sensor is aligned with the touchscreen display . More particularly the fingerprint sensor and the touchscreen display which includes both the display and the touchscreen overlay are centered about a common axis which in the embodiment illustrated is an axis that runs midway between the left side and the right side of the electronic device and midway between right and left sides of the fingerprint sensor and midway between left and right sides of the display .

It will be appreciated that illustrates an external face of the electronic device and that other components will be included on the electronic device that may not be visible from the outside of the electronic device . For example the electronic device may have the components described above with reference to .

Referring now to an example of a further electronic device is illustrated. In the example of the fingerprint sensor is mounted on the touchscreen display .

More particularly a touchscreen display is included which is centrally located between a left side and a right side of the electronic device . In the example the touchscreen display is also centered between top and bottom sides .

A fingerprint sensor is included and is in the embodiment illustrated mounted on top of the touchscreen display . That is in the example illustrated the fingerprint sensor is illustrated as being placed on top of the touchscreen display . However in other embodiments the fingerprint sensor may be provided in another way. For example to avoid having a fingerprint sensor that protrudes from the electronic device an opening may be provided in the touchscreen display to effectively have an exterior surface that is approximately flush with the touch sensitive surface of the touchscreen display .

In the example illustrated the fingerprint sensor is an elongate fingerprint sensor having a length that corresponds to a dimension of the touchscreen display . More particularly in the example illustrated the length of the fingerprint sensor is approximately the same e.g. within 10 as the width of the touchscreen display . In the example illustrated the fingerprint sensor has left and right ends which contact left and right ends of the touchscreen display . This length provides a relatively large probability of contacting the fingerprint sensor when performing a gesture of the type described below.

The fingerprint sensor effectively defines two regions of the touchscreen display each associated with an opposite side of the fingerprint sensor . A first region is associated with a first side of the touchscreen display which in the example illustrated is the side of the touchscreen display that is above the fingerprint sensor and a second region is associated with a second side of the touchscreen display which in the example illustrated is the side of the touchscreen display that is below the fingerprint sensor .

In the embodiment illustrated the fingerprint sensor is aligned with the touchscreen display . More particularly the fingerprint sensor and the touchscreen display are centered about a common axis which in the embodiment illustrated is an axis that runs midway between the left side and the right side of the electronic device and midway between right and left sides of the fingerprint sensor and midway between left and right sides of the touchscreen display .

Gesture recognition instructions associated with a processor of the electronic device which is coupled to the touchscreen display cause that processor to recognize one or more predetermined gestures based on input received at the touchscreen display i.e. through the overlay . At least one such gesture is characterized by input which is received at the touchscreen display at both sides of the fingerprint sensor . That is the gesture involves activations of two regions of the touchscreen display that are separated by the fingerprint sensor . A first region is associated with a first side of the touchscreen display which in the example illustrated is the side of the touchscreen display that is above the fingerprint sensor and a second region is associated with a second side of the touchscreen display which in the example illustrated is the side of the touchscreen display that is below the fingerprint sensor . More particularly a multi region upward swipe gesture may be initiated at the first region of the touchscreen display and may proceed to the second region of the touchscreen display. In performing this gesture a finger travels over the fingerprint sensor due to the location of the fingerprint sensor relative to these two regions. When this happens a fingerprint sample is acquired.

Similarly a multi region downward swipe gesture may be initiated at the second region of the touchscreen display and may proceed to the first region of the touchscreen. As this happens the finger performing the gesture travels over the fingerprint sensor due to the location of the fingerprint sensor relative to these two regions . When this happens a fingerprint sample is acquired.

As noted in the discussions of the electronic devices in and the gesture may be associated with a non authentication function. Accordingly contact with the fingerprint sensor is made while a finger is performing a gesture having an associated function that is unrelated to authentication. In response to detecting the gesture the electronic device may perform a non authentication related function. Accordingly the user may perform the gesture in order to attempt perform a non authentication function on the electronic device and while doing so the electronic device may acquire a fingerprint sample at the fingerprint sensor and may utilize that fingerprint sample for some authentication related activity. For example when the fingerprint sample is acquired the electronic device may automatically update user fingerprint profile data to build a fingerprint profile for the current user i.e. this may be done if the electronic device is already in a state in which it is confident that the user is an authorized user e.g. if the device has recently been unlocked by an authorized user . In some examples when the fingerprint sample is acquired the electronic device may automatically authenticate the current user of the electronic device based on the fingerprint sample and user fingerprint profile data stored in memory.

It will be appreciated that illustrates an external face of the electronic device and that other components will be included on the electronic device that may not be visible from the outside of the electronic device . For example the electronic device may have the components described above with reference to .

Referring now to an example method is illustrated in flowchart form. The example method may in at least some embodiments be implemented on one or more processors of the electronic device . For example a processor may be associated with processor executable instructions which when executed cause the processor to perform the method . Such instructions may include for example gesture recognition instructions which are configured for causing a processor to perform the functions of the method that are related to gesture identification e.g. step fingerprint acquisition instructions which are configured for causing a processor to perform the functions of the method that are related to fingerprint acquisition e.g. step and or authentication instructions which are configured for causing a processor to perform the functions an features of the method that are related to authentication e.g. step and or .

The method may be performed on an electronic device that is of a type described above with reference to . More particularly the electronic device may include components such as those described with reference to and the arrangement of some of those components may be as described with reference to any one of .

At a gesture is detected. More particularly the gesture recognition instructions are configured to cause a processor to determine based on input received via the touch sensitive overlay of the touchscreen display whether one or more predetermined gestures has been performed. In at least some embodiments the gesture recognition instructions are configured to cause the processor to detect a gesture that is characterized by input representing movement that is directed at or from the fingerprint sensor and that is received at least in part at an end of the display that is nearest the fingerprint sensor . Example gestures that may be detected are described in greater detail above with reference to .

The gesture may be detected based on input received at the touchscreen display . In at least some embodiments the gesture may interact with an input interface in addition to the touchscreen display . For example as noted in a second input component may be provided on some electronic devices on a side of the fingerprint sensor that is opposite the side where the touchscreen display is located. As noted in the discussion of above in some such embodiments a gesture may be detected based on both input from the touchscreen display and input from the second input component .

At in response to detecting the gesture a function associated with the gesture may be performed on the electronic device . The function is a non authentication function. By way of example the gesture may be associated with a command to display particular content on the touchscreen display . In response to detecting such a gesture the content may be displayed on the touchscreen display . Accordingly the gesture may be performed in order to attempt perform a non authentication function on the electronic device .

As noted above while the gesture is being performed or shortly thereafter or shortly before the gesture is performed a fingerprint sample is obtained at using the fingerprint sensor of the electronic device . More particularly performance of the gesture that is detected at causes contact with the fingerprint sensor i.e. the finger performing the gesture contacts the fingerprint sensor . Such contact is incidental when the gesture is performed. This contact causes a fingerprint sample of the fingerprint associated with the finger to be obtained at .

After the fingerprint sample is obtained at the electronic device may utilize that fingerprint sample for some authentication related activity. For example when the fingerprint sample is acquired the electronic device may automatically update user fingerprint profile data to build a fingerprint profile for the current user i.e. this may be done if the electronic device is already in a state in which it is confident that the user is an authorized user e.g. if the device has recently been unlocked by an authorized user . In some examples when the fingerprint sample is acquired the electronic device may automatically authenticate at the current user of the electronic device based on the fingerprint sample and user fingerprint profile data stored in memory. More particularly a comparison between the current user s fingerprint and that of the authorized user is performed to determine whether the current user is the same person as the authorized user.

Thus authentication may be performed at using the fingerprint sample obtained at and in at least some embodiments user fingerprint profile data stored in memory associated with the electronic device . As noted above the fingerprint profile data represents the fingerprint of one or more authorized users of the electronic device.

After authentication is performed at the electronic device may at set a security state of the electronic device based on the result of the authentication operation. For example one or more secure features of the electronic device may be enabled i.e. if the current user is determined to be an authorized user or disabled i.e. if the current user is determined to be an unauthorized user based on the result of the authentication operation. By way of example secure features may include the ability to make a telephone from the electronic device make a long distance telephone from the electronic device send an electronic message from the electronic device access the Internet access a secure area of memory access a secure application delete a file or application or initiate a download or an upload of data. Other secure features may be provided in other embodiments.

In at least some embodiments the electronic device may be set to a locked state in which a number of features of the electronic device are unavailable if the current user is determined to be unauthorized. Similarly in at least some embodiments the electronic device may be set to an unlocked state in which the features disabled in the locked state are available if the current user is determined to be authorized.

The authentication at is in at least some embodiments configured to operate as a background process i.e. performed while the device appears to be doing other things . More particularly a fingerprint sample may be captured passively i.e. without first presenting a prompt to a user requiring the user to engage the fingerprint sensor . The fingerprint ample may be captured when a user happens to place their finger over the fingerprint sensor. Accordingly in at least some embodiments the electronic device may at the start of the method be operating in an unlocked state where one or more secure features are enabled. A fingerprint sample is then acquired at as a result of the performance of the gesture detected at . At this point the fingerprint sample has been obtained without a corresponding prompt having been generated on the device i.e. without a prompt requesting the user to engage the fingerprint sensor . Using the fingerprint sample that was obtained through incidental contact with the fingerprint sensor the authentication is performed. If the current user is authenticated then the electronic device may continue to operate in the unlocked state. In this scenario the authentication has occurred unbeknownst to the user. However if the user is not authorized then the electronic device may be placed into a locked state at .

Thus in at least some embodiments a fingerprint based authentication is described which operates unbeknownst to an authorized user. That is if the current user is an authorized user then the authentication process of the method operates without being apparent to that user.

A further example method is illustrated in . The method of includes many features that are described above with reference to the method of . The discussion of these features will not be repeated at length.

While the method of was described as a parallel process in which the gesture detection at was performed at approximately the same time as when the fingerprint sample was obtained at the method of operates more serially.

The example method may in at least some embodiments be implemented on one or more processors of the electronic device . For example a processor may be associated with processor executable instructions which when executed cause the processor to perform the method . Such instructions may include for example gesture recognition instructions which are configured for causing a processor to perform the functions of the method that are related to gesture identification e.g. step fingerprint acquisition instructions which are configured for causing a processor to perform the functions of the method that are related to fingerprint acquisition e.g. step and or authentication instructions which are configured for causing a processor to perform the functions an features of the method that are related to authentication e.g. step and or .

In at least some embodiments the electronic device is a device of the type described above with reference to . For example a fingerprint sensor may be included on the electronic device immediately adjacent to a touchscreen display . In such embodiments the gesture may be a swipe towards fingerprint sensor gesture that is characterized by input representing a swipe in the direction of the fingerprint sensor. That is the gesture may be a swipe which begins away from the end of the touchscreen display that is nearest the fingerprint sensor and that proceeds to the end of the touchscreen display that is nearest the fingerprint sensor .

In response to detecting the gesture an associated function is performed at in the manner described above with reference to the method of .

In response to detecting the gesture at the electronic device may monitor for a fingerprint sample. That is the performance of the gesture which may be the swipe towards fingerprint sensor gesture may act as a trigger to cause the electronic device to begin monitoring for a fingerprint sample. If the electronic device is oriented as described above with reference to the electronic device may expect the fingerprint sensor to be contacted shortly after the gesture is performed. Thus the monitoring may begin in some such embodiments as a result of having detected the gesture.

Then at a fingerprint sample is obtained and at authentication is performed based on the fingerprint sample. Then at a security state of the electronic device is set based on the authentication result. and are described in greater detail above with reference to the method of .

The term computer readable medium as used herein means any medium which can store instructions for use by or execution by a computer or other computing device including but not limited to a portable computer diskette a hard disk drive HDD a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or flash memory an optical disc such as a Compact Disc CD Digital Versatile Disc DVD or Blu ray Disc and a solid state storage device e.g. NAND flash or synchronous dynamic RAM SDRAM .

Example embodiments of the present application are not limited to any particular operating system system architecture mobile device architecture server architecture or computer programming language.

The various embodiments presented above are merely examples and are in no way meant to limit the scope of this application. Variations of the innovations described herein will be apparent to persons of ordinary skill in the art such variations being within the intended scope of the present application. In particular features from one or more of the above described example embodiments may be selected to create alternative example embodiments including a sub combination of features which may not be explicitly described above. In addition features from one or more of the above described example embodiments may be selected and combined to create alternative example embodiments including a combination of features which may not be explicitly described above. Features suitable for such combinations and sub combinations would be readily apparent to persons skilled in the art upon review of the present application as a whole. The subject matter described herein and in the recited claims intends to cover and embrace all suitable changes in technology.

