---

title: Game achievements system
abstract: Systems and method for providing a game achievements system where players are rewarded with game achievements based on mastering certain in-game facets of the games they play. Each game achievement may be conveyed in a profile as a badge or trophy, title, description, date, etc. Players may also accumulate points based on game achievements. A display interface may be made available such that a player may see his achievements and total points, as well as those of others.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09367543&OS=09367543&RS=09367543
owner: Microsoft Technology Licensing, LLC
number: 09367543
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130501
---
This patent application is a continuation of and claims priority from U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 165 211 filed on Jun. 21 2011. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 165 211 is a continuation of and claims priority from U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 019 951 filed on Feb. 2 2011 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 323 112 issued Dec. 4 2012. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 165 211 is also a continuation of and claims priority from U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 987 871 filed on Jan. 10 2011 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 277 325 issued Oct. 2 2012. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 019 951 is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 987 871 which is a continuation of and claims priority from U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 005 768 filed on Dec. 7 2004 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 887 419 issued Feb. 15 2011 all of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material which is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent files or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever. The following notice applies to the software and data as described below and in the drawings hereto Copyright 2004 Microsoft Corporation All Rights Reserved.

This invention generally relates to the field of gaming and multimedia devices. In particular the present invention is directed to a system and method of defining and creating game achievements that may be used to convey a player s skill.

Conventional gaming systems include a concept of unique identity which was intended to increase player satisfaction and create a sense of community. However while the conventional unique identity does minimize the effort required to play online the unique identity failed to accomplish these goals. One reason for this problem is that multiple players often share an identity because there is no easy way for multiple players to identify themselves on a shared gaming device. This creates confusion as a player using a particular identity during an online gaming session may not be the same player in the next session or from the previous session.

Further conventional identities have failed to provide a method for conveying information about players other than a limited set of game achievements and fail to convey information about offline achievements. Thus it is difficult to learn more about a player through the conventional unique identity. Therefore there is a need for a unique identity that is rich and includes game achievements from both offline and online contexts to convey a player s skill. Further the achievements should be weighted such that excelling in more difficult games results in a higher achievement level. The present invention provides such a solution.

The present invention is directed to a system and methods for providing a game achievements system. In accordance with the present invention players are rewarded with game achievements based on mastering certain in game facets of the games they play. Each game achievement may be conveyed in a profile as a badge or trophy title description date etc. Players may also accumulate points based on game achievements. A display interface may be made available such that a player may see his achievements and total points as well as those of others.

In accordance with an aspect of the invention there is provided a method of providing a game achievements system in an online gaming environment. The method includes defining system achievements receiving definitions of predetermined in game achievements tracking player activity to capture occurrences of the system achievements and the predetermined in game achievements and aggregating occurrences of the system achievements and the predetermined in game achievements during game play into a profile associated with a user.

In accordance with features of the invention the method may include assigning a predetermined number of points to each system achievement aggregating the predetermined number of system achievement points into the profile and maintaining an aggregate number of points for the profile. Also the method may include assigning a predetermined number of points to each in game achievement and aggregating the predetermined number of in game achievement points into the profile.

In accordance with the invention the predetermined number of points may be a weighted valued based on a total number of points available. Further the total number of points assigned to in game achievements for a specified game may be determined in accordance with a difficulty of the specified game. However it may be desirable to fix the total number of points assigned to the system achievements for all games.

A display user interface may be provided where the profile is published for viewing. The display may show the aggregate number of points within a profile.

In accordance with another aspect of the invention there is provided a system for providing game achievements in an online gaming environment. The system includes an offline player achievement tracking mechanism that tracks offline player activity during periods when a player is not communicatively connected to the online gaming environment an online player achievement tracking mechanism that tracks online player activity during online sessions with the online gaming environment and an aggregation mechanism that receives data regarding offline player activity and the online player activity and aggregates the offline player activity and the online player activity into a player profile.

Additional features and advantages of the invention will be made apparent from the following detailed description of illustrative embodiments that proceeds with reference to the accompanying drawings.

A graphics processing unit GPU and a video encoder video codec coder decoder form a video processing pipeline for high speed and high resolution graphics processing. Data is carried from the graphics processing unit to the video encoder video codec via a bus. The video processing pipeline outputs data to an A V audio video port for transmission to a television or other display. A memory controller is connected to the GPU to facilitate processor access to various types of memory such as but not limited to a RAM Random Access Memory .

The multimedia console includes an I O controller a system management controller an audio processing unit a network interface controller a first USB host controller a second USB controller and a front panel I O subassembly that are preferably implemented on a module . The USB controllers and serve as hosts for peripheral controllers a wireless adapter and an external memory device e.g. flash memory external CD DVD ROM drive removable media etc. . The network interface and or wireless adapter provide access to a network e.g. the Internet home network etc. and may be any of a wide variety of various wired or wireless adapter components including an Ethernet card a modem a Bluetooth module a cable modem and the like.

System memory is provided to store application data that is loaded during the boot process. A media drive is provided and may comprise a DVD CD drive hard drive or other removable media drive etc. The media drive may be internal or external to the multimedia console . Application data may be accessed via the media drive for execution playback etc. by the multimedia console . The media drive is connected to the I O controller via a bus such as a Serial ATA bus or other high speed connection e.g. IEEE 1394 .

The system management controller provides a variety of service functions related to assuring availability of the multimedia console . The audio processing unit and an audio codec form a corresponding audio processing pipeline with high fidelity and stereo processing. Audio data is carried between the audio processing unit and the audio codec via a communication link. The audio processing pipeline outputs data to the A V port for reproduction by an external audio player or device having audio capabilities.

The front panel I O subassembly supports the functionality of the power button and the eject button as well as any LEDs light emitting diodes or other indicators exposed on the outer surface of the multimedia console . A system power supply module provides power to the components of the multimedia console . A fan cools the circuitry within the multimedia console .

The CPU GPU memory controller and various other components within the multimedia console are interconnected via one or more buses including serial and parallel buses a memory bus a peripheral bus and a processor or local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. By way of example such architectures can include a Peripheral Component Interconnects PCI bus PCI Express bus etc.

When the multimedia console is powered ON application data may be loaded from the system memory into memory and or caches and executed on the CPU . The application may present a graphical user interface that provides a consistent user experience when navigating to different media types available on the multimedia console . In operation applications and or other media contained within the media drive may be launched or played from the media drive to provide additional functionalities to the multimedia console .

The multimedia console may be operated as a standalone system by simply connecting the system to a television or other display. In this standalone mode the multimedia console allows one or more users to interact with the system watch movies or listen to music. However with the integration of broadband connectivity made available through the network interface or the wireless adapter the multimedia console may further be operated as a participant in a larger network community.

When the multimedia console is powered ON a set amount of hardware resources are reserved for system use by the multimedia console operating system. These resources may include a reservation of memory e.g. 16 MB CPU and GPU cycles e.g. 5 networking bandwidth e.g. 8 kbs etc. Because these resources are reserved at system boot time the reserved resources do not exist from the application s view.

In particular the memory reservation preferably is large enough to contain the launch kernel concurrent system applications and drivers. The CPU reservation is preferably constant such that if the reserved CPU usage is not used by the system applications an idle thread will consume any unused cycles.

With regard to the GPU reservation lightweight messages generated by the system applications e.g. popups are displayed by using a GPU interrupt to schedule code to render popup into an overlay. The amount of memory required for an overlay depends on the overlay area size and the overlay preferably scales with screen resolution. Where a full user interface is used by the concurrent system application it is preferable to use a resolution independent of application resolution. A scaler may be used to set this resolution such that the need to change frequency and cause a TV resynch is eliminated.

After the multimedia console boots and system resources are reserved concurrent system applications execute to provide system functionalities. The system functionalities are encapsulated in a set of system applications that execute within the reserved system resources described above. The operating system kernel identifies threads that are system application threads versus gaming application threads. The system applications are preferably scheduled to run on the CPU at predetermined times and intervals in order to provide a consistent system resource view to the application. The scheduling is to minimize cache disruption for the gaming application running on the console.

When a concurrent system application requires audio audio processing is scheduled asynchronously to the gaming application due to time sensitivity. A multimedia console application manager described below controls the gaming application audio level e.g. mute attenuate when system applications are active.

Input devices e.g. controllers and are shared by gaming applications and system applications. The input devices are not reserved resources but are to be switched between system applications and the gaming application such that each will have a focus of the device. The application manager preferably controls the switching of input stream without knowledge the gaming application s knowledge and a driver maintains state information regarding focus switches.

The present invention is directed to a Gamer Profile which serves as a building block for services and applications that aim to create a social community of gamers and grow relationships among players. In accordance with the present invention the Gamer Profile is the entirety of information e.g. metadata related to a specific user i.e. the gamer s digital identity . The Gamer Profile is developed from a set of services that collect and expose this information in a meaningful way to the community. The Gamer Profile also provides for personalization such that users can customize and enhance their gaming experience. As will be discussed in greater detail below the Gamer Profile consists of various components including but not limited to a Gamercard game achievements and gamer preferences.

Referring to there is illustrated an overview of an exemplary architecture that may be used to implement the Gamer Profile. The console interacts with a remote service that provides services such as voice chat a friends list matchmaking content download roaming feedback tournaments voice messaging and updates to games. The service also maintains the Gamer Profiles in a profile database and configuration data used by the services and games . The service collects Gamer Profiles aggregates processes information supplied by other services and fulfills real time client requests for retrieving Gamer Profile related services. The Gamer Profiles in the database are also used by the games to enable among other things personalization and customization etc.

Using the console the user may interact with a guide . The guide provides an interface where the user may navigate to and enter various online areas and options provided by the service . The configuration data stored by the service may be used to determine features and options provided by the guide . When the game is running a defined set of APIs are used to call and interact with the services . When requesting Gamer Profile information via the APIs the game may pass a unique identifier of a user. The service may return a Gamercard discussed below game stats game achievements affiliations game settings. etc. Additional details of the various aspects of the exemplary architecture are provided below.

The console includes an offline tracking mechanism that tracks offline player activity during periods when a player is not communicatively connected to the service . The tracker aggregator tracks offline player activity during offline sessions and aggregates that data with the online player activity into the Gamer Profile .

Referring to the Gamer Profile is created when a user creates a profile selected from the guide and chooses his her unique Gamertag a user s unique name tile picture avatar associated with the user other options during an account sign up phase. From there a base Gamer Profile is created. The Gamer Profile may then be populated from several sources. For example the Gamer Profile may include self described data from the Gamer Profile owner. Other gamers can provide feedback regarding the Gamer Profile owner. The service may track the gamer s online and offline activity. In addition the games may report the gamer s statistics and game achievements.

The owner of Gamer Profile can edit his her Gamer Profile directly and control who can view each section of the Gamer Profile. The Gamer Profile may be edited via general fields e.g. tile country language gender greeting etc. and or system settings e.g. voice output controller vibration character name game format game mode etc. . Privacy Opt out Settings can be tuned for the Gamer Profile to e.g. restrict presence information only to friends allow game achievements to be visible to all etc.

The Gamer Profile may include feedback provided by other players . Feedback helps others learn about a particular gamer. For example if the gamer uses foul language or aggressive play in game sessions other gamers may submit feedback to the service . The feedback mechanism improves the user experience by building reputations. Players are therefore anonymous but not unknown because of the accumulated feedback.

As noted above the Gamer Profile may be used for customization and preference setting on a global level as well as a per game level. Gamer preferences aid games in choosing defaults for common settings such as game profile name controller inversion and controller vibration etc. For example if a gamer likes using an inverted controller this preference will be used for new titles as they are played. Games have access to Gamer Profiles via the database and services . In addition game usage data can be mined to tune the game to the user s particular preferences and game features updated after the initial game launch.

As noted above the Gamer Profile conveys among other things game achievements. Players will be rewarded with game achievements based mastering certain in game facets of the games they play. Each game achievement may be conveyed in the Gamer Profile as e.g. a badge or trophy title description date etc. as shown in . Games may supply a screen snapshot or some other rich media captured at the moment the player earned a given achievement. This too may be displayed as part of the Gamer Profile . Players will accumulate gamer Cred a points based reward system based on game achievements. As shown in the player has a gamer Cred of 290. The display interface of may be made available within the console or via e.g. a web browser etc.

Referring to there is illustrated the overall relationship of the game achievements and gamer Cred in accordance with the present invention. The player s total gamer Cred is an aggregation of gamer Cred awarded through the play of one or more games e.g. Title A and Title B . Each game may award up to a certain amount of game Cred e.g. 200 that is divided into game defined achievements and standard system achievements.

For example referring to the user interface Title A may be a relatively easy game to master and may award a total of 100 game defined gamer Cred points. Within Title A there may be several achievements e.g. Campaign completed on hardest multiplayer level 10 etc. The relative weight of each of the achievements is set based on the total weight e.g. Campaign completed on hardest is 10 36 or 27.8 . If a player completes this achievement then the player may be awarded 27.8 of the 100 total gamer Cred points or 28 rounded to the nearest integer value. A player is preferably credited with an achievement only once.

The standard system achievements make up the remaining 100 points in the exemplary embodiment. The standard system achievements may be applied to all games. They may include achievements such as a first sign in to a title completing a first session with a game completing a first hour of a game completing 100 sessions with a game completing 10 hours with a game completing a game etc. Other system achievements may be defined as necessary. The system achievements may be weighted such that a first sign in is awarded a relative few points whereas completing 100 sessions is awarded a higher number points.

Developers may use a tool that include user interface of to describe their game. The tool may create a configuration file that a system application on the console reads when the game is loaded a C header file that game code can compile against and an XML file that is used for configuration creation of tables creation stored procedures and creation of leader boards.

Although Title A and Title B can award 200 gamer Cred points more difficult games may award 500 or 1000 or some other number of gamer Cred points. The total amount to be awarded on a per game basis is preferably set by the online service and is not editable by the developers. This will maintain fairness and avoid the situation where Game X wants to increase sales by making the total number of gamer Cred points available a significantly higher number than other games.

Thus the present invention provides a balanced game achievements system by weighting the difficulty of the achievements and the games. In addition because the aggregation of game Cred is abstracted from the game to the console the likelihood that a hacker or developer can over value achievements to inflate a player s gamer Cred is reduced.

While the present invention has been described in connection with the preferred embodiments of the various Figs. it is to be understood that other similar embodiments may be used or modifications and additions may be made to the described embodiment for performing the same function of the present invention without deviating therefrom.

