---

title: Systems and methods for presenting a content summary of a media item to a user based on a position within the media item
abstract: Systems and methods for presenting a content summary of a media item to a user based on a position within the media item are disclosed herein. According to an aspect, a method may include receiving identification of a position within a media item residing on an electronic device. For example, the identified position may be a bookmarked position within an e-book residing on an e-book reader. The method may also include generating a content summary for a portion of the media item based on the identified position. For example, an electronic device may dynamically generate a content summary based on content of the e-book that precedes a bookmarked position. The method may also include presenting the content summary to a user of the electronic device. For example, a display of an electronic device may be controlled to present a content summary to a reader of an e-book.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09495344&OS=09495344&RS=09495344
owner: Rhonda Enterprises, LLC
number: 09495344
owner_city: Wilmington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130323
---
This application claims the benefit U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 105 856 filed May 11 2011 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 350 965 filed Jun. 3 2010 the contents of which are hereby incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.

The present disclosure relates to systems and methods for presenting media and associated information to electronic device users.

Electronic books or e books are text and image based publications in digital form produced on published by and readable on computers or other electronic devices. E books are often read on dedicated hardware devices such as e book readers or e book devices. Personal computers mobile devices such as smart phones and other suitable devices may also be used for reading e books.

Many currently available e book readers and other devices allow users to mark and persist their current position in an e book. For example a user may interact with the device to bookmark a current position in an e book. When the e book is later opened on the device the user can use the bookmark to quickly return to the position for continuing to read the e book. Although bookmarks can be used to remind the user of the last reading position a significant amount of time may have passed since the user last opened the e book. In these cases the user may have forgotten much of the previously read content of the e book. Accordingly it is desirable to provide techniques for refreshing a user s memory about an e book s content.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Disclosed herein are systems and methods for presenting a content summary of a media item to a user based on a position within the media item. According to an aspect a method may include receiving identification of a position within a media item residing on an electronic device. For example the identified position may be a bookmarked position within an e book residing on an e book reader. The method may also include generating a content summary for a portion of the media item based on the identified position. For example an electronic device may dynamically generate a content summary based on content of the e book that precedes a bookmarked position. In another example an electronic device may use a pre generated summarization for generating a content summary of a portion of an e book that precedes a bookmarked position. The method may also include presenting the content summary to a user of the electronic device. For example a display of an electronic device may be controlled to present a content summary to a reader of an e book.

The present disclosure is described with specificity to meet statutory requirements. However the description itself is not intended to limit the scope of this patent. Rather the inventors have contemplated that the claimed subject matter might also be embodied in other ways to include different steps or elements similar to the ones described in this document in conjunction with other present or future technologies. Moreover although the term step may be used herein to connote different aspects of methods employed the term should not be interpreted as implying any particular order among or between various steps herein disclosed unless and except when the order of individual steps is explicitly described.

Embodiments of the present disclosure enable an electronic device such as an e book reader to identify or receive identification of a position within a media item residing on the electronic device to generate a content summary for a portion of the media item based on the identified position and to present the content summary to a user of the electronic device. For example an e book reader may identify a bookmarked position within an e book generate a content summary for a portion of the e book that precedes the bookmarked position and display the content summary to a reader. Other embodiments of the present disclosure enable the electronic device to generate a content summary based on user specific information or time since the user last read or accessed the media item.

As referred to herein the term electronic device should be broadly construed. It can include any type of device capable of presenting a media item to a user. For example the electronic device may be an e book reader configured to present an e book to a user. Example e book readers include but are not limited to the KINDLE and NOOK e book readers. In another example an electronic device may be a mobile device such as for example but not limited to a smart phone a cell phone a pager a personal digital assistant PDA e.g. with GPRS NIC a mobile computer with a smart phone client or the like. An electronic device can also include any type of conventional computer for example a desktop computer or a laptop computer. A typical mobile device is a wireless data access enabled device e.g. an iPHONE smart phone a BLACKBERRY smart phone a NEXUS ONE smart phone an iPAD device or the like that is capable of sending and receiving data in a wireless manner using protocols like the Internet Protocol or IP and the wireless application protocol or WAP. This allows users to access information via wireless devices such as smart phones mobile phones pagers two way radios communicators and the like. Wireless data access is supported by many wireless networks including but not limited to CDPD CDMA GSM PDC PHS TDMA FLEX ReFLEX iDEN TETRA DECT DataTAC Mobitex EDGE and other 2G 3G 4G and LTE technologies and it operates with many handheld device operating systems such as PalmOS EPOC Windows CE FLEXOS OS 9 JavaOS iOS and Android. Typically these devices use graphical displays and can access the Internet or other communications network on so called mini or micro browsers which are web browsers with small file sizes that can accommodate the reduced memory constraints of wireless networks. In a representative embodiment the mobile device is a cellular telephone or smart phone that operates over GPRS General Packet Radio Services which is a data technology for GSM networks. In addition to a conventional voice communication a given mobile device can communicate with another such device via many different types of message transfer techniques including SMS short message service enhanced SMS EMS multi media message MMS email WAP paging or other known or later developed wireless data formats. Although many of the examples provided herein are implemented on an e book reader the examples may similarly be implemented on any suitable electronic device such as a computer or smart phone.

As referred to herein the term media item should be broadly construed. For example a media item can include electronic text residing on an electronic device. Example text can be presented and stored in the form of book pages that may be browsed using an electronic device. The text may be stored in any suitable format such as but not limited to portable document format PDF hypertext markup language HTML extensible markup language XML EPUB or any suitable e book or word processing format. In another example a media item can include image video and audio content.

As referred to herein a user interface is generally a system by which users interact with an electronic device. An interface can include an input for allowing users to manipulate an electronic device and can include an output for allowing the system to present information e.g. e book content and or data indicate the effects of the user s manipulation etc. An example of an interface on an electronic device includes a graphical user interface GUI that allows users to interact with programs in more ways than typing. A GUI typically can offer display objects and visual indicators as opposed to text based interfaces typed command labels or text navigation to represent information and actions available to a user. For example an interface can be a display window or display object which is selectable by a user of a mobile device for interaction. The display object can be displayed on a display screen of an electronic device and can be selected by and interacted with by a user using the interface. In an example the display of the electronic device can be a touch screen which can display the display icon. The user can depress the area of the display screen at which the display icon is displayed for selecting the display icon. In another example the user can use any other suitable interface of a mobile device such as a keypad to select the display icon or display object. For example the user can use a track ball or arrow keys for moving a cursor to highlight and select the display object.

Operating environments in which embodiments of the present disclosure may be implemented are also well known. In a representative embodiment a mobile electronic device such as an e book reader is connectable for example via WAP to a transmission functionality that varies depending on implementation. Thus for example where the operating environment is a wide area wireless network e.g. a 2.5G network a 3G network or a 4G network the transmission functionality comprises one or more components such as a mobile switching center MSC an enhanced ISDN switch that is responsible for call handling of mobile subscribers a visitor location register VLR an intelligent database that stores on a temporary basis data required to handle calls set up or received by mobile devices registered with the VLR a home location register HLR an intelligent database responsible for management of each subscriber s records one or more base stations which provide radio coverage with a cell a base station controller BSC a switch that acts as a local concentrator of traffic and provides local switching to effect handover between base stations and a packet control unit PCU a device that separates data traffic coming from a mobile device . The HLR also controls certain services associated with incoming calls. Of course embodiments in accordance with the present disclosure may be implemented in other and next generation mobile networks and devices as well. The mobile device is the physical equipment used by the end user typically a subscriber to the wireless network. Typically a mobile device is a 2.5G compliant device 3G compliant device or 4G compliant device that includes a subscriber identity module SIM which is a smart card that carries subscriber specific information mobile equipment e.g. radio and associated signal processing devices a user interface or a man machine interface MMI and one or more interfaces to external devices e.g. computers PDAs and the like . The electronic device may also include a memory or data store.

The presently disclosed subject matter is now described in more detail. For example illustrates a schematic diagram of a system for presenting a content summary to a user of an electronic device according to embodiments of the present disclosure. Referring to the system includes e book readers and an e book services server . The e book readers may be any type of electronic device capable of presenting media item content to a user. Further the e book readers comprise a number of functional components. This representation of the e book readers is meant to be for convenience of illustration and description and it should not be taken to limit the scope of the present disclosure as one or more functions may be combined. Typically these components are implemented in software as a set of process executable computer instructions associated data structures and the like . One or more of the functions may be combined or otherwise implemented in any suitable manner e.g. in hardware in firmware in combined hardware and software or the like . The e book readers may include a media manager for managing storage of one or more media items in a media item store and for controlling presentation of a media item to a user. The e book readers may include a user interface capable of receiving user input and of presenting content to a user. For example the user interface may include a display capable of presenting e book content to a user. The media item store may be a suitable memory device.

The e book readers may also be capable of communicating with other devices. For example the e book readers may include a network interface capable of communicating with the server via the Internet or any other suitable network such as a wireless network or local area network LAN . In another example the e book readers can be Internet accessible and can interact with the server using Internet protocols such as HTTP HTTPS and the like. The server is shown as a single device but this is not a requirement whereas one or more programs processes or other code may comprise the server and be executed on one or more machines in one or more networked locations. The e book readers may also be capable of communicating with one another or another electronic device via the Internet or another suitable network.

The operation of the system can be described by the following example. As shown in the e book readers include various functional components and associated data stores to facilitate the operation. The operation of the disclosed methods may be implemented using system components other than as shown in .

A user of one of the e book readers may use an application often referred to as an app residing on the e book reader to interact with an e book stored in the media item store . The application may reside on the e book reader and be a part of the media manager . The user may for example input commands into the user interface for opening the e book and for interacting with the e book . The application may present text and or images of the e book to the user via a display of the user interface . For example illustrates a front view of an e book reader displaying content of an e book via its display in accordance with embodiments of the present disclosure. In this example the display is a touch screen display. The user may suitably interact with the e book reader to control the display of different portions of the e book s content. For example the user may touch the display such as by use of a swiping motion on the surface of the display to command the media manager to turn pages of the e book as will be understood. The user may turn or otherwise select pages for display by any other suitable technique as will be understood. Graphic indicates that the displayed page is a bookmark location.

In another example the user may interact with the display for selecting one or more portions of the e book. The user may select a portion of the e book by touching or swiping a desired portion of the e book displayed to the user. For example the user may touch or swipe a word one or more paragraphs or the entirety of a displayed page for selecting that portion of the display. The user may turn or otherwise select pages for display by any other suitable technique as will be understood. The selected portion of the e book may identify a position within the e book. The media manager may receive identification of the selected portion and in response bookmark the corresponding position within the e book. As a result when later opening the e book the user may be able to quickly return to the bookmarked position to continue reading the e book.

In accordance with embodiments of the present disclosure illustrates a flow chart of an exemplary method for presenting a content summary of a media item to a user of an electronic device. The method of is described with respect to the example system shown in although the method may be implemented by any suitable system or electronic device. The steps of may be implemented entirely or in part by a media summary generator residing on one of the e book readers shown in . The media summary generator may be implemented by software hardware firmware or combinations thereof.

Referring to the method includes receiving identification of a position within a media item residing on an electronic device step . For example the identified position may be a bookmarked position within text of the e book . In this example the position may be identified in response to a user interacting with the user interface to input a command for bookmarking the position within the e book . Examples of identifiers for a position within an e book include but are not limited to a chapter title chapter number page number line number column number or combinations thereof. Alternatively the position identifier may also include indexes into the data structures representing the e book such as file offsets memory locations traversal paths in Document Object Model DOM trees or anchor tags in HTML. The media manager may manage bookmarking functions and may report identification of a bookmarked position to the media summary generator . Position identifiers may be stored in the media item store and may be associated with a corresponding e book residing in the store . In one embodiment position identifiers may alternatively or in addition be stored on the server for example or along with the user s user profile record in the user profile store .

In another example of identifying a position within a media item the position may be identified in response to the media item being closed. In this example a media item may be opened at a particular position when the user has previously inputted control commands for closing the media item. Alternatively or in addition the e book reader itself or a component such as the media manager may issue control commands for closing the media item for example triggered by timeouts due to lack of user activity. In response to closing the media item the current position or near the current position is identified and stored. Using the example of the e book the e book reader may be displaying a specific page of an e book when the user inputs commands to close the e book. In response to receipt of the commands the media summary generator may identify the current page of the e book and may store an identifier of the page in the media item store .

At step of the method includes generating a content summary for a portion of the media item based on the identified position. For example the content summary may be generated based on a bookmarked position within an e book. The content summary may also be based on the bookmarked position along with other factors as described herein. Further for example the content summary may be generated based on a bookmarked position or other identified position within an e book a user profile time elapsed since the user last accessed a media item or combinations thereof. In the example of the e book reader the bookmarked position may be identified as a chapter or page in the e book . In this example the e book reader may have stored in the media item store one or more content summaries for the e book . One of the content summaries may correspond to the identified chapter and may include text that summarizes the text of the e book up to the identified chapter or page. The media summary generator may use a chapter identifier page identifier or another position identifier for accessing content summaries stored in the media item store . A content summary corresponding to the identifier may be used for looking up and accessing a corresponding content summary. In another embodiment a summary may be dynamically generated by applying automated techniques such as but not limited to semantic analysis natural language processing and automatic summary generation to the portion of the content based on the position identifier. Such automated summarization techniques are understood by those of skill in the art and may include extraction as well as abstraction techniques key phrase extraction document summarization statistical methods supervised or unsupervised learning techniques and the like.

In an example of generating a content summary the content summary may be generated based on user specific information. For example the media summary generator may receive or gather information about a user that has accessed or opened the e book . The information may include a profile of the user gaze tracking information for the user annotations of the user social network information of the user the like or combinations thereof. The media summary generator may use this information for generating a content summary for a media item such as the e book in accordance with embodiments of the present disclosure.

In one embodiment the demographic information of a user may be used to generate the content summary. As an example the gender and age of the user may be used along with heuristics to infer which aspects of the content may interest the user more than other aspects and hence may be used to bias the summary towards those aspects. As an example the content summary of a narrative text may include in addition to the main summary for adult female users events or actions of primary female characters whereas for adult male users the summary may be biased more towards the events or actions of primary male characters on the premise that users may relate more to characters of their own gender. For readers of a different age the bias may be reversed. In another embodiment other information from a user profile such as interests preferences content history and content engagement may be used to customize the generated summary by inferring the relevance of segments of the summary to the user. This information may be stored in the user profile as a set of keywords key phrases genres names of authors or other such metadata. For example by applying keyword matching between segments from the generated summary and the keywords in a user profile segments with greater keyword matching may be determined to be more relevant. In another embodiment the preferences and keywords from a user profile may be mapped to an ontology and matching words or phrases in content segments to the same ontology may be used to determine the relevance of content segments to the user and this relevance can be used to generate a summary customized for the user.

As another example for a deeply technical content item gaze tracking or other methods of determining user engagement may be used to identify segments that the user has more difficulty understanding such as by identifying the segments the user re reads more than once and then assigning such segments higher weight during the summary generation method. Customizing the generated content summary based on this determined relevance may include selecting sentences to be included in the summary based on relevance filtering or de emphasizing summary segments determined to be less relevant to the user emphasizing summary segments that may be more relevant to the user or replacing less relevant segments with more relevant segments that are located close to each other in the content. In an embodiment extraction based methods are used for summary generation whereby content segments such as passages sentences phrases or words are ranked or weighted based on a metric of how well they may be representative of other segments or sections of the content and extracting them for inclusion in a summary based on a function of the rank or weight such as by comparing to a threshold value. In this case sentences or phrases to be selected for inclusion in a summary are weighted more or less based on whether they also contain terms or references that are related to the user s preferences. Hence when the summary is generated the highest weighted sentences or phrases are selected thus resulting in a summary that is more relevant to the terms in a user profile.

In another embodiment a user specific content summary may be generated via query biased summary generation where the query includes terms that are of interest to the user. In yet another embodiment pre generated content summaries are provided for each segment of the content and a summary is generated by combining the summary segments corresponding to the portion of the content identified by the position identifier. Each of these content summary segments may include metadata comprising the keywords or ontological concepts that apply to that segment rules or keywords relating to the types of user that each segment is most relevant to a basic pre assigned weight to be used for the segment during summary generation and so on. Hence when a summary is generated for the user terms from a user profile may be matched with such metadata of each content summary segment to estimate the relevance of that segment to the user. Alternatively other methods previously described such as matching keywords in the pre generated summary segments and the user profile may be used to estimate the relevance of the segments. This relevance may be used to determine whether that segment should be included in the generated summary. Note that any combination of the above methods may be used and different methods may be used for different users or content types such as for fiction versus non fiction texts.

User profile information may be used as a factor for generating a content summary. By use of user profile information information more relevant to the user may be identified. Example user profile information includes but is not limited to gender of a user age of a user gaze tracking to identify a user s interests sentiment analysis of user annotations and comments and a user s social network activity. Relevance information may include for example but is not limited to keywords based on the user profile words the user focused on e.g. based on gaze tracking estimated character empathy e.g. based on user demographics and the like. Other example information in the user profile may include preferred genres names of favorite authors and keywords key phrases or terms describing types of content or other such metadata. Such information may either be provided manually by the user or automatically inferred from multiple sources such as analysis of previous content consumed including textual web video and audio content book reading behavior web browsing history social media generated social network information and so on. In addition interests may also be inferred via methods measuring user engagement with a variety of content types for example via gaze tracking or determining the types of content the user annotates. Other information may include the user s preferences in summary generation which may be manually configured by the user or inferred by analysis of the user s reading behavior. As an example the user s reading behavior when resuming reading in the absence of a content summary may be analyzed. If the user spends more time reading through more recently read content the summary generation process may assign more weight to summary segments corresponding to more recently read chapters. Alternately if the user spends more time reading through less recently read content the summary generation process may assign more weight to the earlier chapters.

In another example of generating a content summary the content summary may be generated based on a time elapsed since the user last accessed a media item. For example the e book reader may have stored in the media item store one or more content summaries for the e book . The lengths of the content summaries may vary where longer content summaries include a higher level of detail as compared to shorter content summaries. The media summary generator may compare an elapsed time since the user last accessed the e book to one or more thresholds. One of the content summaries may be selected based on the comparison. In response to determining that the elapsed time is greater than a threshold a content summary having a high level of detail or greater amount of description may be selected for use in refreshing the user s memory. It is reasoned that if it has been a long time since a user last accessed an e book then a greater amount of summary detail may be needed to refresh the user s memory. Conversely in response to determining that the elapsed time is less than a threshold a content summary having a low level of detail may be selected since only a low level of detail may be needed to refresh the user s memory.

Further regarding use of a time elapsed since user access of a media item the media summary generator may track the amount of time a user took for reading content segments e.g. chapters of an e book and or may track the time elapsed since the user has read each content segment. For example a user s activity may include in the following sequence read chapter 1 take a break read chapter 2 take a break and so on until chapter 6. After chapter 6 the user may take a long break and input a command for the content up to chapter 6 to be summarized. The media summary generator may generate a summary having an increased level of detail for chapter 1 less for chapter 3 and so on until the summary is the shortest for chapter 6. In another embodiment the rules may be reversed on the premise that the immediate content preceding the user s current position is more important to provide a more complete context. Hence a more detailed summary may be generated for the most recently read segments and a less detailed summary for the least recently read segments. In yet another embodiment the rules may be mixed. For instance the detail of the content summary may reduce with each successive segment except for the most recently read segment which may be needed to provide better context to the user s current position in the content. In yet another embodiment the level of detail for different portions may be determined based on whether or how often the portion has been summarized and presented to the user on previous occasions. Specifically the level of detail for a portion is inversely proportional to the number of times its summary has been previously presented to the user so that the user need not read the same summary segments again and again every time the user resumes reading the e book. As such the media summary generator may keep records either on the e book services server or in the local storage of which portions of the content have been summarized and presented to the user over time. These rules may be pre configured or adapted based on one or more of the user s input commands user profile user preferences analysis of user reading behavior such as past reading behavior when resuming reading the type of content such as fiction versus non fiction or rules based on metadata provided with pre generated content summaries. The media summary generator may set the level of detail for each chapter based on the time since the chapter was read.

In accordance with embodiments of the present disclosure a user may select to present or display either a content summary with a high amount of description or a content summary with less description. Both content summaries may be generated and the user may enter input for selecting one of the two. In response to the selection a display may be controlled for displaying the selected content summary. In another example the selection may be based on an elapsed time since the user last accessed the e book. In this example if the elapsed time is greater than a threshold the content summary with greater detail may be displayed. In contrast if the elapsed time is less than a threshold the content summary with less detail may be displayed. There may be more than two levels of content summaries for a portion of an e book. The various levels of content summaries may have varying levels of detail that may be selectively presented. The summaries may be automatically generated or entered by a human.

In accordance with embodiments of the present disclosure an extractive technique may be utilized in the creation of a content summary. For example key phrases words and or sentences in content may be identified and used in a summary for the content. The length of the content summary may be adapted by varying constraints or thresholds on the ranks or scores of phrases words and or sentences in the content. Low ranking or scoring phrases words and or sentences may be extracted while others are used in the summary. Phrases words and or sentences may be extracted from use in the summary based on a relevancy level assigned to the phrases words and or sentences. As previously described ranks or weights of the extracted phrases words or sentences may also depend on the user profile. The threshold may be varied to change the length of the summary. For example a short summary may include only phrases scoring in a top 10 of relevancy among all phrases in content of a portion of an e book to be summarized. Further for example a long summary may include only phrases scoring in a top 20 of relevancy among all phrases in the content. Different thresholds or other constraints may be applied to different portions of content in an e book. For example variations in constraints may be linear or random based on a distance from an identified position such as a bookmarked position or based on the time elapsed since that portion has been read by the user.

In another example of generating a content summary the content summary may be generated based on a portion of a media item residing between a beginning of the media item and an identified position such as a bookmarked position or a position where the media item was closed. For example a suitable summarization technique may be used to generate a summary of the portion residing between the beginning of the media item and the identified position. This technique may be combined with the determination of a time elapsed since the user last accessed a media item. The size of the portion of the media item that is summarized may be based on the elapsed time. For example the media summary generator may compare an elapsed time since the user last accessed the e book to one or more thresholds. The amount of content that is summarized may be determined based on the comparison. In response to determining that the elapsed time is greater than a threshold a content summary may be generated based on multiple chapters or pages. Conversely for example in response to determining that the elapsed time is less than a threshold a content summary may be generated based on only a single chapter or a few pages.

In accordance with embodiments of the present disclosure any suitable technique may be utilized to summarize content of a media item. For example the media summary generator may apply a semantic analysis technique to a portion of the e book for generating a content summary. In another example the media summary generator may apply a natural language processing NLP technique to a portion of the e book for generating a content summary. Such summarization techniques may be used for summarizing content in accordance with embodiments of the present disclosure.

In accordance with embodiments of the present disclosure a content summary may be dynamically generated in response to the opening of media content on an electronic device. For example a user may use the user interface to input a command for opening the e book . In this example the e book may be opened at a particular page or chapter such as a bookmarked page or chapter. In response to receiving the user input to control the opening of the e book the media summary generator may dynamically generate a content summary for a portion of the e book that corresponds to the position where the e book was opened. The content summary may be generated in accordance with embodiments of the present disclosure. In another embodiment of the present disclosure a content summary may be generated via a background process as the user finishes reading each segment of the content for instance at the end of each chapter. Thus the summary may be available for presentation at short notice any time the user resumes. Note that the background process may also continually or at intervals adapt the previously generated summary as a function of time elapsed.

In accordance with embodiments of the present disclosure generation of a content summary may include retrieving a pre generated summarization of the media content. For example referring to one of the e book readers may retrieve a pre generated summarization of the media content from the e book services server . In this example the summarization of the e book may be stored in a summary and content summary segment map store which may be a database server. The e book reader may request the summarization from the server via the Internet . In response to the request the server may access the store for obtaining the summarization for the e book . Next the server may communicate the summarization to the e book reader that requested the summarization. Alternatively the pre generated summarization may be retrieved from another source or retrieved from the media item store .

The pre generated summarization may be truncated and presented to a user in accordance with embodiments of the present disclosure. For example a user of the e book reader may be presented with a pre generated summarization of the e book . Further the pre generated summarization may be truncated based on a position within the e book . For example the pre generated summarization may be truncated based on an identified position with the e book such as a bookmarked position. The media summary generator may truncate the pre generated summarization by identifying a portion of the summarization that corresponds to the identified position. The portion of the summarization may be identified by use of a mapping that maps the summarization to the identified position. The mapping may map portions of the pre generated summarization to various portions of the media item that are relevant to the content summary. The mapping may be retrieved from for example the store or the local store . The truncated summarization may then be presented to a user. In this way the user is only provided with the part of the summarization that corresponds to his or her position within the e book .

In an example a mapping may include along with a summary metadata and or annotations for indicating which portion of a summary corresponds to which portion of content of an e book. The metadata or annotations may be human generated or automatically generated by comparing keywords or syntactic parses and or semantic analysis of the summary with that of the content.

At step of the method includes presenting the content summary to a user of the electronic device. For example a content summary associated with a current position of the user may be displayed by use of a display. In the example of a content summary of a bookmarked position of the e book may be presented to the user by use of a display of the user interface . The display of the content summary may include displaying text of the content summary an identifier for the position in the media item that is associated with the content summary other text as described herein suitable graphics or images and combinations thereof.

Referring to the e book services server may be any type of server capable of communicating with electronic devices and providing information to the electronic devices. The server may include a number of functional components. This representation of the server is meant to be for convenience of illustration and description and it should not be taken to limit the scope of the present disclosure as one or more functions may be combined. Typically these components are implemented in software as a set of process executable computer instructions associated data structures and the like . One or more functions may be combined or otherwise implemented in any suitable manner e.g. in hardware in firmware in combined hardware and software or the like . The server may include a processor for implementing process executable instructions. The server may include a network interface for communicating with the e book readers via the Internet or any other suitable network.

The server may have access to one or more database servers. For example in addition to the store described herein the server may have access to an e book related metadata store an e book content store and a user profile store . The e book related metadata store may store information about one or more e books such as but not limited to author name publisher information author biography publishing date editor information genres and categorization information pricing information previews excerpts cover images cover text bibliographic information copyright information digital rights management DRM information reviews user comments metadata such as number of words chapters pages and editions target audience and reader demographics and the like. The e book content store may contain e books. The user profile store may include profile information for readers of the e books stored at the e book content store . The information contained in the stores and may be accessible to the e book readers by request to the server . For example the e book readers may request downloading of the content of the servers. The server may access the stores for communicating the requested content to the e book readers in response to requests. The downloaded content may be used by the e book readers for generating content summaries in accordance with embodiments of the present disclosure.

The window may also display a graphical user interface GUI object that may be user controlled for selecting a portion of the e book for content summarization display. In this example the object is a scrollbar that may be controlled for selecting a number of pages preceding the currently displayed page of the e book. In response to the selection the window may display a content summary for the selected number of pages preceding the currently displayed page. Any other suitable user input may be used for selecting a portion of an e book for content summarization display. For example the user may enter input identifying a range of pages in the e book for summarization and display. In another embodiment the GUI object may be adapted to control the level of detail of the generated summary. Note that this is only one of many possible embodiments for displaying a summary. In one alternate embodiment more dynamic and visually appealing methods may be employed such as animated navigation to the bookmark position by displaying e book pages automatically flipping to the bookmarked page. In this embodiment displaying the generated content summary to the user may be effected by emphasizing the summary segments such as key phrases and sentences that are extracted as part of the summary on the pages that the selected segments appear on as the page flips by in the animation. Emphasizing extracted summary segments may comprise highlighting the segments on the page de emphasizing the non summary text around the summary segments or a combination of both. Emphasis or de emphasis may be achieved by for example changing the font type color characteristics bold italics and size of the text of the summary segment. In addition the page flipping animation may be controlled to better display the summary by adapting the flipping rate to make the highlighted summary segments more visible such as by pausing at or slowing down the flipping of the corresponding pages on which summary segments appear. Note that the multiple embodiments may be provided and the exact embodiment for displaying summaries may be configurable by the user or by metadata provided along with the e book by the creators of the e book or the e book service . Also note that a summary may not be generated or presented to the user at all for example if it is determined that the time elapsed since the last session is below a threshold.

In another embodiment illustrates a front view of an e book reader displaying content of an e book and a step in a dynamic summarization process via the display in accordance with embodiments of the present disclosure. In this example a reader may stop reading for a time and may bookmark the page at which he or she stopped. Later the reader resumes reading and the media summary generator may determine that the reader could benefit from a summary in response to determining that at least a predetermined time has passed since the reader last read the e book. In this case the media summary generator may control the display to generate an animation for summarizing content of the e book up to the bookmarked location in the e book. For example the animation may include flipping the pages of the e book rapidly and highlighting key sentences names keywords and or the like for quickly summarizing content that the reader has read thus far. For example referring to the media summary generator may recognize that the reader is about to enter a portion of the e book that focuses heavily on a particular character. The reader s memory of this character may be refreshed by interleaving one or more significant facts about the character. In this example the reader is reminded that the Major Major indicated by highlighting this text looks a lot like the actor Henry Fonda indicated by highlighting the text . Such an animation may orient the reader both spatially and conceptually within the e book. After one or more contextually relevant conceptual or catch up stops the flipping of pages may stop at the bookmarked position with for example a virtual bookmark indicating an exact point where the reader stopped reading such as detected by a gaze tracker.

In accordance with embodiments of the present disclosure illustrates a flow chart of an exemplary method for generating a bookmark based content summary using pre generated summaries and a content segment summary segment map. The method of is described with respect to the system shown in although the method may be implemented by any suitable system or electronic device. The steps of may be implemented entirely or in part by a media summary generator residing on one of the e book readers shown in . The media summary generator may be implemented by software hardware firmware or combinations thereof.

Referring to the method includes returning to a bookmarked position within an e book step . For example a user of one of the e book readers shown in may enter an input command for opening the e book at a bookmarked page.

The method of includes identifying one or more content segments up to the bookmarked position step . For example one or more pages or chapters in the e book may precede a bookmarked page. In this example the media summary generator may identify the pages or chapters preceding the bookmarked page.

The method of includes retrieving a content segment summary segment map step . For example the e book reader may retrieve a content segment summary segment map from the store shown in . Alternatively for example the map may be retrieved from a local data source such as the store where the map resides. The map may include a mapping between content segments of an e book and pre generated content summaries for the segments. For example the map may include identifiers of chapters of the e book and a mapping between the chapter identifiers and content summaries for each identified chapter. Alternatively for example mappings can be provided between pages paragraphs or any other content segment and corresponding summaries for those segments. A content summary for a content segment such as a chapter may contain text that summarizes the content segment.

In an embodiment there can be a one to one mapping between a content segment and a summary segment. As such the map data structure is quite straightforward. In another embodiment there may be a one to many mapping between a content segment and summary segments where one content segment may map to multiple content segments of for example varying levels of detail. In yet another embodiment there may be a one to one mapping between a content segment and summary segment but the summary segment may comprise a more complex data structure that contains multiple versions of the same summary such as versions with varying levels of detail. In another embodiment the summary segment data structure may have a hierarchical or tree like nature whereby each level of the summary segment has multiple child levels and each level may contain text corresponding to a different level of verbosity. For example each subsequent level may contain a more detailed version of the level above or may contain text that adds detail to the text of the level above. Alternatively or in addition each level may contain summary text that emphasizes a different aspect of the content. The hierarchical summary segment may also contain metadata describing the relationship between each parent level and child levels as well as metadata containing keywords about the summary segment text. Such metadata could include for example relations such as more detailed version of parent level or focusing more on a specific character X or more relevant to a reader demographic Y . Hence summary generation for a given level of detail and a given user profile for a content segment may be performed by traversing the different levels of the hierarchical summary segment for that content segment matching the metadata of each level with the required detail and the user profile identifying the level or levels having the best match and selecting the summary text from the identified level. The content segment summary segment maps as well as the hierarchical summary segment may be stored and provided in for example XML or RDF formats. Note that the summary segments and the corresponding data structures may be created using automated methods as described in detail later or by humans either manually or using machine aided tools such as annotation utilities.

The method of includes initializing text of a content summary step . For example the media summary generator may initialize the text of a content summary for the text of the e book up to a bookmarked position. The text for a total content summary may be initialized to empty i.e. no text . In another example the media summary generator may initialize the text of a content summary for the e book to a default string of text e.g. The story so far . . . . Other summary text may be used for filling the total content summary or may be appended to follow the default string of text as will be described in the following example steps . For example the content summaries for the chapters up to the bookmarked position may be used to complete the text of the total content summary after the default string of text.

Referring to step of the method includes fetching a next identified content segment. For example the media summary generator may fetch a first segment of the segments identified in step . Continuing the example of the e book the media summary generator may fetch the first identified chapter.

At step of the method includes identifying one or more summary segments for the identified content segment. For example the media summary generator may use the content segment summary segment map for identifying a summary segment for the identified content segment of step .

At step of the method includes ranking the identified summary segments of step . For example if more than one summary segment was identified for the content segment the media summary generator may rank the summary segments based on one or more predefined criteria such as for example but not limited to a distance of the identified content segment from a bookmarked position a time since a corresponding content segment was read a relevance of a content segment to a current bookmarked position user profile information e.g. a user s interest in the identified summary segment and the like.

In the example of a content segment relevance a relevancy level may be assigned to a content segment or other portion of the e book. The content summary may be generated based on the relevancy level of the content segment. If the relevancy level of the content segment is higher than a threshold a content summary of the segment may be generated. In contrast if the relevancy level of the content segment is lower than a threshold no content summary may be generated for the segment.

At step of the method includes selecting one or more top ranked identified summary segments of step . The number of top ranked summary segments that are selected may be based upon for example but not limited to a distance of the identified content segment from a bookmarked position a time since a corresponding content segment was read a relevance of a content segment to a current bookmarked position user profile information e.g. a user s interest in the identified summary segment the like or combinations thereof. In an example the media summary generator may select one or more top ranked identified summary segments.

At step of the method includes appending the selected top ranked identified summary segments to the text of the content summary. For example the media summary generator may append selected top ranked identified summary segments to the text of the content summary for the e book . In an embodiment the media summary generator may insert some other text or apply formatting to the selected summary segment before appending to the content summary such as for example the chapter number or page numbers for the content segment to which the selected summary segment corresponds. If the necessary information is available the media summary generator may also insert pre determined text segments that indicate a relation between the previously selected and currently selected summary segment. As an example a time based relation indicating the passage of time between consecutive selected summary segments may be indicated by inserting the phrase Several years later . . . between the segments.

At step of the method includes determining whether there are more identified content segments. For example the media summary generator may determine whether there are more identified content segments. In response to determining that there are more identified content segments the method may proceed to step to fetch the next identified content segment for identifying one or more summary segments for the identified content segment step ranking identified summary segments step selecting top ranked identified summary segments step and appending the selected identified summary segments to the text of the content summary step . Steps may be performed iteratively until there are no more identified segments. In response to determining that there are no more identified content segments at step the method may proceed to step .

At step of the method includes formatting text of the content summary. For example the formatting may include editing the text into correct grammatical format. The media summary generator may format text of the content summary. An example of formatting may be to adjust the font characteristics or insert spaces of paragraph breaks after certain summary segments to be more visually appealing. Alternatively the media summary generator may insert an ellipsis between certain summary segments to indicate for example non continuity or at the end of the content summary to indicate incompleteness. As another example if the content is an opinion piece certain segments may be prefaced with the words In the author s opinion . In one embodiment the generator may parse the summary to identify any context specific words and filter them or replace with ellipses to preserve consistency. For example in an extracted summary segment On the following Thursday Bob proposed to Alice the day of the week may be contextually irrelevant or confusing and hence may be removed such that the segment becomes Bob proposed to Alice. In another embodiment the generated summary may be parsed and converted into a different form for example to a different tense more suited for a summary or a subset of segments may be converted to a different tense for example to maintain a consistent tense throughout the summary. In one embodiment this may be performed by using a parts of speech tagger to tag each word with the corresponding parts of speech such as nouns verbs adjectives and adverbs using a stemmer to stem the tagged words and using a natural language generator NLG to generate a sentence from the stemmed tagged words in a given format. As an example conversion to a different tense may be performed by using a parts of speech tagger on the words to identify verbs from a segment using a stemmer to obtain the stem of those extracted verbs using a natural language generator to conjugate the stemmed extracted verbs with the desired tense and re inserting the conjugated stemmed extracted verbs into the segment. It is noted that the formatting and other post processing may also depend on the type of content the user profile and the like.

At step of the method includes presenting the content summary to a user. For example the media summary generator may control the user interface to display text of the content summary.

In accordance with embodiments of the present disclosure illustrates a flow chart of an exemplary method for generating a bookmark based content summary using automatic summarization of dynamically sized clusters of content segments. The method of is described with respect to the system shown in although the method may be implemented by any suitable system or electronic device. The steps of may be implemented entirely or in part by a media summary generator residing on one of the e book readers shown in . The media summary generator may be implemented by software hardware firmware or combinations thereof.

Referring to the method includes receiving a user request for a content summary of e book content up to a bookmarked position step . For example the user may input a command into the user interface for requesting a content summary of the e book up to a bookmarked position. In an example the user may select an icon on a page of the e book for requesting content summary. The media summary generator may receive the command for requesting the content summary of the e book up to the identified position.

At step of the method includes identifying fine grained content segments up to the bookmarked position. For example one or more pages or chapters in the e book may precede a bookmarked page. In this example the media summary generator may identify pages and or chapters preceding the bookmarked pages. At step the method includes grouping sequential fine grained content segments into clusters. For example the media summary generator may group adjacent or nearby pages and or chapters of the e book into clusters.

In accordance with embodiments of the present disclosure sizes of the clusters that are grouped together may be based on a distance of content segments from the bookmarked position. For example pages and or chapters that are positioned a greater distance from the bookmarked position may be placed together in larger clusters. For example if the bookmarked position is at chapter 12 of the e book the media summary generator may place chapters 1 5 together in a cluster may place chapters 6 10 together in another cluster and may place chapter 11 in yet another cluster.

The verbosity e.g. detail and length of a content summary may vary based on proximity of content to a bookmarked position. For example summaries can be more detailed as summary portions of content are closer to the bookmarked position. Alternatively for example summaries may be less detailed as summary portions of content are closer to the bookmarked position. This example may be based on the premise that a reader may have forgotten more of earlier read content than the content closer to the bookmarked position. The distance from a bookmarked position to other portions of the e book may be measured for example but not limited to a number of media units e.g. words lines pages chapters letters and the like estimated reading time estimated reading time based on a user s reading speed and combinations thereof.

As will be described in the following example steps the clusters may each be used to generate a content summary of their respective content segment s . These content summaries may be combined together for providing a total content summary up to the bookmarked position.

The method of includes accessing a next cluster step and applying an automated summarization technique to the cluster step . For example the media summary generator may access a first cluster for the e book which corresponds to chapters 1 5. A summarization technique may be applied to the content of chapters 1 5. For example the media summary generator may apply a semantic analysis technique an NLP technique a summary extraction technique the like or combinations thereof to the content of chapters 1 5. The resulting summarization of the content associated with the cluster may be referred to as a summary segment. 

At step of the method includes filtering the summary segments based on one or more criteria. For example the media summary generator may filter a generated or extracted summary segment based on criteria such as but not limited to a distance of the content from a bookmarked position a time since the e book was last read and the like. For example if an extractive technique is used in constructing the summary segment it ranks segments in the content such as sentences phrases and words and extracts them for inclusion in the summary based on a function of the rank for instance by comparing to a threshold value. Before filtering these segments the media summary generator may adapt the rank using additional metrics such as distance from the bookmark position or time elapsed by for example multiplying by a weighing factor that is directly proportional to the distance from the bookmark and the time elapsed. Thus when compared to a threshold summary segments for portions that are farther from the bookmark or have been read much more previously are more likely to be included in the summary than other segments.

At step of the method includes appending the summary segments to the text of the total content summary. For example the media summary generator may append the summary segments to the text of the total content summary for the e book .

At step of the method includes creating an entry in a content summary segment map for associating the summary segment with the content segment corresponding to the cluster. For example the media summary generator may access or if a map for the e book does not exist create a content summary segment map for the e book . Further in this example the media summary generator may create an entry in the map for mapping the generated summary segment with a corresponding cluster. Continuing the example of the e book the media summary generator may create entries in a map for mapping summary segments for each of the clusters e.g. clusters for chapters 1 5 chapters 6 10 and chapter 11 to identifiers for the corresponding content of the e book .

At step of the method includes saving the summary segment to storage. For example the media summary generator may store the summary segment to the store or any other suitable memory.

At step of the method includes determining whether there are more clusters. For example the media summary generator may determine whether there are more clusters for summarization. In response to determining that there are more clusters the method may proceed to step to access the next cluster for summarization step filtering step appending of the summary segment to the text of the content summary step creating a map entry step and saving of the summary segment step . Steps may be performed iteratively until there are no more clusters. In response to determining that there are no more clusters at step the method may proceed to step .

At step of the method includes presenting the content summary and returning the map. In an embodiment the media summary generator may also format the summary before presentation as previously described for step of . For example the media summary generator may control the user interface to display text of the content summary. Further for example the map generated for the e book may be stored locally at store or remotely at store .

In accordance with embodiments of the present disclosure illustrates a flow chart of an exemplary method for generating a bookmark based content summary using dynamic ranking and filtering of automatically generated summary segments. The method of is described with respect to the system shown in although the method may be implemented by any suitable system or electronic device. The steps of may be implemented entirely or in part by a media summary generator residing on one of the e book readers shown in . The media summary generator may be implemented by software hardware firmware or combinations thereof.

Referring to the method includes receiving a user request for a content summary of e book content up to a bookmarked position step . For example the user may input a command into the user interface for requesting a content summary of the e book up to a bookmarked position. In an example the user may select an icon on a page of the e book for requesting a content summary. The media summary generator may receive the command for requesting the content summary of the e book up to the identified position.

At step of the method includes applying one or more automated summarization techniques to the e book content up to the bookmarked position to generate or extract summary segments. For example the media summary generator may use a suitable summarization technique for summarizing chapters of the e book . Each chapter summary may be a summary segment.

At step of the method includes prioritizing the summary segments based on one or more predefined criteria such as for example but not limited to a distance of the identified content segment from a bookmarked position e.g. content segments positioned closer to the bookmarked position have higher priority a time since a corresponding content segment was read a relevance of a content segment to an overall summary e.g. summary segments having more keywords in common with the complete summary or the whole e book have higher priority and the like.

At step of the method includes filtering summary segments based on priority to achieve a predetermined verbosity level. For example the media summary generator may filter the summary segments. The verbosity level may depend on multiple criteria such as but not limited to distance from a bookmarked position time since the corresponding content segment was last read relevance and the like.

At step of the method includes creating entries in a content summary segment map for associating summary segments with corresponding content segments. These are the content segments from which the summary segments were generated or extracted from. For example the media summary generator may create entries in a map for mapping the generated summary segments with corresponding content segments. Continuing the example of the e book the media summary generator may create entries in a map for mapping summary segments e.g. chapter 1 chapter 2 and chapter 3 to identifiers for the corresponding chapters of the e book .

At step of the method includes appending the summary segments to the text of the content summary. For example the media summary generator may append the summary segments to the text of the content summary for the e book .

At step of the method includes presenting the content summary and returning the map. In an embodiment the media summary generator may also format the summary before presentation as previously described for step of . For example the media summary generator may control the user interface to display text of the content summary. Further for example the map generated for the e book may be stored locally at store or remotely at store .

In accordance with embodiments of the present disclosure a content summary may be generated at an e book services server in response to a request from an e book reader or other electronic device. For example illustrates a message flow diagram of an exemplary operation of the system of for providing a content summary to the e book reader according to embodiments of the present disclosure. Referring to the e book reader may generate a bookmark in an e book step . In response to generation of the bookmark an e book content identifier for the e book and an identifier for the bookmarked position within the e book may be communicated to the e book services server step . The identifiers may be communicated to the server in a request message via a suitable network connection. In response to receipt of the identifiers the server may generate a bookmark position based content summary in accordance with embodiments of the present disclosure step . The generated content summary may be communicated to the e book reader step . The e book reader may cache the generated content summary step . Later the e book reader may be opened at the bookmarked position when the user later resumes reading the e book step . In response to opening the e book at the bookmarked position the generated content summary for the bookmarked position may be retrieved from cache step and displayed to the user step .

In another example of generating a content summary at an e book services server in response to a request from an e book reader or other electronic device illustrates a message flow diagram of another exemplary operation of the system of for providing a content summary to the e book reader according to embodiments of the present disclosure. Referring to the e book reader may generate a bookmark in an e book step . The user may then close the e book. Later the e book reader may be opened at the bookmarked position when the user later resumes reading the e book step . In response to opening the e book at the bookmarked position an e book content identifier for the e book an identifier for the bookmarked position within the e book and the time when the e book was last read may be communicated to the e book services server step . The identifiers and time may be communicated to the server in a request message via a suitable network connection. In response to receipt of the identifiers and time the server may generate a bookmark position based content summary in accordance with embodiments of the present disclosure step . The generated content summary may be communicated to the e book reader step . The e book reader may receive the generated content summary step . In response to receipt of the content summary the content summary for the bookmarked position may be displayed to the user step .

In accordance with embodiments of the present disclosure a navigation link may be presented for linking a portion of a content summary and a corresponding portion of a media item. For example a navigation link such as a hyperlink may link a displayed portion of a content summary to the portion of an e book that is summarized by the portion of the content summary. Conversely a hyperlink may be displayed along with a portion of the e book for linking the e book portion to its corresponding portion in the content summary. For example if chapters of an e book are summarized by a content summary the content summary may include multiple navigation links that link to corresponding chapters of the e book. In response to selection of a navigation link the linked to portion may be displayed or otherwise presented to the user.

Content of an e book may be summarized by any suitable summarization technique. For example content may be summarized by an automated extractive technique e.g. key phrase extraction text mining and the like . In another example content may be summarized by an automated abstractive technique. In another example content may be summarized by a human. Further for example content summarization may be implemented by a combination of any summarization technique described herein.

In an example use of an e book according to an embodiment of the present disclosure a user may read an e book and close the e book. When the e book is closed the position at which the book is closed may be bookmarked. A content summary may be generated based on the bookmarked position in accordance with embodiments of the present disclosure. After later opening the e book the user may select a bookmark icon to control the e book to display the content summary. The content summary may be selectively adapted by the user by adjusting weights for different subjects or characters the length of each summary and the like. For example the summary may focus on subjects or characters given greater weight by the user. The user may also set an amount of content to be summarized e.g. 10 pages and or a length of a content summary e.g. 1 paragraph . In response to the settings the content summary may be generated in accordance with the setting constraints. The content summary may be generated based on an NLP technique a semantic analysis technique and or another suitable summarization technique. In another example a full length summary of content of an e book may be truncated based on a bookmarked position or other identified position.

In another example use of an e book according to an embodiment of the present disclosure a user may enter input into the e book for track information about his or her reading of an e book. For example the user may select an intelligent bookmark icon to access information about the e book. The intelligent bookmark can provide contextually relevant information about the e book or section of the e book that has been read. Selection of the intelligent bookmark can control the e book to display or otherwise present the following example information how much time the user has spent at a current reading session how much time the user has spent reading the entire e book a current reading speed e.g. words per minute an estimate on how long to read the remainder of the e book e.g. based on a current reading speed and a length of the remainder of the e book significant characters in this section also with intelligently indexed links to other references of these characters that are navigable and significant objects in a current section with intelligently indexed links to other references of these subjects that are navigable .

The various techniques described herein may be implemented with hardware or software or where appropriate with a combination of both. Thus the methods and apparatus of the disclosed embodiments or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the presently disclosed invention. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computer will generally include a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. One or more programs are preferably implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s can be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and combined with hardware implementations.

The described methods and apparatus may also be embodied in the form of program code that is transmitted over some transmission medium such as over electrical wiring or cabling through fiber optics or via any other form of transmission wherein when the program code is received and loaded into and executed by a machine such as an EPROM a gate array a programmable logic device PLD a client computer a video recorder or the like the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the presently disclosed invention. When implemented on a general purpose processor the program code combines with the processor to provide a unique apparatus that operates to perform the processing of the presently disclosed invention.

While the embodiments have been described in connection with the preferred embodiments of the various figures it is to be understood that other similar embodiments may be used or modifications and additions may be made to the described embodiment for performing the same function without deviating therefrom. Therefore the disclosed embodiments should not be limited to any single embodiment but rather should be construed in breadth and scope in accordance with the appended claims.

