---

title: Methods and apparatus for detecting space-shifted media associated with a digital recording/playback device
abstract: Methods and apparatus for detecting space-shifted media content associated with a digital recording/playback device are disclosed. An example method for detecting space-shifted media content includes detecting, at a router, a data packet transmitted from a first media device of a home network to a second media device of the home network; and determining, at the router, that media associated with the data packet is space-shifted when the data packet comprises at least one of media data or command data.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09538240&OS=09538240&RS=09538240
owner: THE NIELSEN COMPANY (US), LLC
number: 09538240
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131223
---
This patent arises from a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 750 881 entitled Methods and Apparatus for Detecting Space Shifted Media Associated with a Digital Recording Playback Device which was filed on May 18 2007 which is a continuation of International Patent Application No. PCT US2005 042108 entitled Methods and Apparatus for Detecting Space Shifted Media Content Associated with a Digital Recording Playback Device which was filed on Nov. 21 2005 and which claims the benefit of the filing date of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 629 529 entitled Methods and Apparatus For Detecting Space Shifted Media Content Associated with a Digital Recording Playback Device filed on Nov. 19 2004. Priorities for U.S. application Ser. No. 11 750 881 International Patent Serial No. PCT US2005 042108 U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 629 529 are hereby claimed. The entire disclosures of U.S. application Ser. No. 11 750 881 International Patent Serial No. PCT US2005 042108 U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 629 529 are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.

The present disclosure pertains to identifying media content and more particularly to methods and apparatus for detecting space shifted media content associated with a digital recording playback device.

Companies that rely on broadcast video and or audio programs for revenue such as advertisers television networks and content providers desire to know the size and demographic composition of the audiences that consume their programs. Audience measurement companies typically address this need by measuring the demographic composition of a set of statistically selected households and the program consumption habits of the members of those households. For example audience measurement companies may collect viewing data associated with a selected household by monitoring the audio video content presented via the television s within the household and by identifying which household members consumed e.g. viewed listened to etc. that content.

Traditionally broadcast programs have been consumed via the media delivery device at which the broadcast programs are received. However more recently recording devices such as audio cassette players video cassette recorders VCRs set top boxes STBs digital video recorders DVRs and personal video recorders PVRs such as SonicBlue s ReplayTV TiVo home media networks e.g. media center PCs and other devices that permit content to be recorded and replayed in accordance with the desires of individual audience members have become commonplace. These devices have significantly increased the ability of audience members to space shift the consumption of broadcast programs i.e. to record a program at the time of broadcast and consume that same program at a later time and at a location different than the location at which the program was recorded . The ability to space shift media content has provided media consumers with enhanced power to record programs and distribute the programs to different locations within a monitored site e.g. a household a restaurant a store etc. 

In general the example apparatus and methods described herein may be used to facilitate audience measurement in a household media system. More specifically the example apparatus and methods described herein enable the detection and monitoring of space shifted media content in a household media system. Space shifted media content is content that has been transferred via for example a network or any other means from one location e.g. a room a viewing space etc. to another location.

In one example a metering device is provided in each location in the household where media content may be consumed. The metering device may detect identifying data e.g. video codes audio codes audio watermarks video watermarks etc. associated with the media content that is consumed and may determine if the media content is space shifted media content. The metering device may transmit information about the media content to a central server for analysis.

In addition to or as an alternative to the previous example a space shift detector may be used to monitor media content that is transmitted from one location to another. If the space shift detector detects media content that is transmitted from one location to another the space shift detector may indicate that the content is space shifted. The space shift detector may additionally transmit information regarding the media to a central server for analysis.

In contrast to many known systems the example apparatus and methods described herein may be used to determine when media content has been space shifted. Although many known systems are capable of determining an original source of media content these known systems are typically not capable of determining that media content has been space shifted after the point that it was originally received at a household. By monitoring or determining whether media content has been space shifted the example apparatus and methods described herein may be used to provide more detailed information about how a consumer has transferred and viewed media content throughout a household.

The broadcast information sources collectively represent systems capable of providing media content from one or more different media sources. The media content provided by the broadcast information sources may include for example broadcast content such as media content from a television service provider e.g. a cable television service provider a satellite television service provider and or a terrestrial television service provider streaming or web content from a network such as the Internet media content supplied by a local device such as for example a digital versatile disk DVD player a video cassette recorder VCR etc. The media content may be in any known form such as a National Television Standards Committee NTSC television signal format a phase alteration line PAL television signal format a compressed digital format such as MPEG etc.

The content storage and viewing sites and are areas within the household such as for example a living room a bedroom a kitchen etc. within which members of the household may consume media content. A person of ordinary skill in the art will readily appreciate that multiple content storage and viewing sites and may be contained in the household. Each of the content storage and viewing sites and includes at least one media delivery device and a digital recording playback device and and a metering device and respectively.

Each of the media delivery devices and may be implemented using any device configured to receive media content from one or more of the broadcast information sources the digital recording playback devices and the home network media server and or any other media content source. Each of the media delivery devices and may be a television a radio a personal computer a personal digital assistant PDA and or any device capable of receiving media content and presenting e.g. displaying playing back etc. the received media content to one or more members of the household .

As used herein the term digital recording playback device is defined to include digital video recorders DVRs personal video recorders PVRs a computer with a television tuning card configured to capture television content etc. The digital recording playback devices and are configured to receive media content from one or more of the broadcast information sources and or the home network media server and are configured to record audio video programs e.g. television programming contained in the media content . The digital recording playback devices and may be configured to digitally record and or store audio video television programs in an internal storage device such as a hard drive and or some other form of storage device such as for example flash memory and or a compact disc CD . In addition to recording television programming the digital recording playback devices and may also be configured to perform time shift tricks e.g. pausing a program fast forwarding a program rewinding a program slow motion viewing of a program etc. . For example a television viewer may decide to pause a program and to resume playback of the program at a later time.

In addition to time shift tricks each of the digital recording playback devices and is configured to space shift media content via the network to other ones of the digital recording playback devices and communicatively coupled to the network . In this manner the digital recording playback devices and can deliver space shifted media content to one or more of the media delivery devices and in a format such as the NTSC television signal format the PAL television signal format a digital format such as MPEG etc. For example the digital recording playback device may record a television program and then transfer transmit or otherwise convey via the network the recorded television program information to the digital recording playback device . The television program information may be space shifted e.g. moved conveyed transmitted etc. from one location to another location via the network using any known network protocol such as for example IEEE 802.3 IEEE 802.11a b g k n u IEEE 1394 a file transfer protocol FTP etc. Alternatively the digital recording playback devices and may convert the media content to analog signals or information e.g. using QAM64 QAM256 NTSC etc. and transmit the analog signals or information representative of the converted media content to one or more of the other digital recording playback devices and . The receiving digital recording playback device s and may then convert the received analog signals or information to digital signals that are used for playback and or recording of the media content.

Each of the metering devices and is configured to monitor the media content received from the broadcast information sources and or the signal output by a respective one of the digital recording playback devices and to collect and or store viewing data e.g. identifying data such as ancillary codes embedded in and or signatures extracted from the received media content time and or date information associated with the recording and or the consumption of the received media content the location at which the received media content is consumed etc. In one example the metering devices and may be configured to detect the emission of analog content from the broadcast information sources and or the digital recording playback devices and at a specific frequency. The metering devices and may also be configured to detect the television tuning status of a tuning device disposed in the media delivery devices and . Additionally the metering devices and may extract and or detect identifying data embedded in or otherwise associated with the media content output by the digital recording playback devices and and or the media content received from the broadcast information sources . Identifying data such as ancillary codes e.g. video codes and or audio codes watermark data e.g. video watermarks and or audio watermarks metadata etc. may be embedded in the media content provided by the broadcast information sources and or output by the digital recording playback devices and . The identifying data may be inserted into the media content during production and or as the media content is transmitted by a television service provider or the like. Alternatively the metering devices and may generate or collect identifying data such as signatures e.g. data characteristics of a signal from the received media content. The identifying data typically contains information associated with programming contained in the audio and or video signals such as a title a source identifier SID length information owner information time and date information associated with the production transmission and or the encoding of the identifying data etc.

Each of the metering devices and is configured to detect and or extract the identifying data embedded in the media content using any known method to extract and or detect the identifying data. For example the metering devices and may analyze a vertical blanking interval VBI to detect identifying data that may be encoded and or embedded in the VBI analyze the video data and or audio data for watermark data generate or collect a signature or signatures associated with the audio data and or video data etc. The metering devices and may also store the identifying data and or transmit the identifying data to the data collection unit via the network .

The home network media server is coupled to and in communication with the home network media storage database . The home network media server is configured to receive media content from one or more of the content storage and viewing sites and via the network and store the received media content in the home network storage database . The media content received from the content storage and viewing sites and may be the media content consumed and or received from the broadcast information sources media content stored on the digital recording playback devices and or any other media that is available at the content storage and viewing sites and . Additionally the home network media server and the home network media storage database may function as a central repository for all of the media content consumed and or received via the network .

The home network media storage database may store media content in any format such as a compressed digital format e.g. an MPEG format and or an analog format e.g. an NTSC format . The home network media server may also distribute the stored media content to any of the content storage and viewing sites and e.g. to the digital recording playback devices and by streaming the media content pushing the media content allowing the media content to be downloaded or using any other suitable technique. For example media recorded by digital recording playback device may be transmitted to the home network media server so that the media is accessible to digital recording playback devices and . In this manner a household member can for example record media content using the digital recording playback device in content storage and viewing site e.g. a bedroom . The recorded media content may be conveyed via the network to the media server and stored in the database . The media content stored in the database may subsequently be retrieved via the network by the digital recording playback device to enable another household member or the same household member to view the media content previously recorded by the digital recording playback device via the media delivery device in the content storage and viewing site e.g. a family room .

The home network media server may also be configured to initiate or control communications on the network . For example the home network media server may request media content from any of the content storage and viewing sites and . Additionally the home network media server may direct or enable one of the digital recording playback devices and to transfer media to another of the digital recording playback devices and via the network .

The space shift detector is communicatively coupled to the network and configured to determine if media content received at one or more of the content storage and viewing sites and e.g. media content received by one or more of the media delivery devices and has been space shifted by one or more of the digital recording playback devices and and or the home network media server . The space shift detector may for example use software application programming interfaces APIs to query the digital recording playback devices and and or the home network media server to determine if the media content is space shifted. The software APIs allow the space shift detector to determine if a digital recording playback device e.g. the device is transferring media content to another digital recording playback device e.g. the device if one or more of the digital recording playback devices and is receiving media content from the home network media server etc. The space shift detector may additionally or alternatively analyze the raw data stored within the digital recording playback devices and . The space shift detector may compare the raw data stored on one of the digital recording playback devices and to the raw data stored on another one of the digital recording playback devices and . In this manner the space shift detector may determine if stored data has been transferred between two or more of the digital recording playback devices and .

The space shift detector may also be configured to determine if media content is space shifted by monitoring data accesses to storage devices e.g. hard drives flash memory etc. associated with each of the digital recording playback devices and and or the home network media server . The space shift detector may determine that media has been space shifted by recognizing when data read from one storage device is subsequently written to another storage device. For example if the space shift detector recognizes that data is read from the storage device within the digital recording playback device and that the same data is written to the storage device within the digital recording playback device the space shift detector may notify the data collection unit that the media was space shifted.

Additionally or alternatively the space shift detector may also be configured to determine if media content has been space shifted by monitoring and analyzing data e.g. traffic on the network . More specifically the space shift detector may function as a data sniffer or monitor and examine data packets transferred via the network .

Additionally or alternatively the space shift detector may be configured to monitor analog content on the network to determine if media content has been space shifted. For example the space shift detector may be configured to detect content distributed on one or more specific frequencies via analog television signals to thereby detect when media content is sent from one device to another. Such analog television signals may utilize a signal protocol such as for example QAM64 QAM256 NTSC etc. The space shift detector may also be configured to update the viewing data associated with the space shifted media content. In particular the space shift detector may update the viewing data stored in the data collection unit to include updated time and date information consumption location and or space shifting source information.

The data collection unit is configured to collect identifying data and or viewing data collected by the metering devices and and or by the space shift detector and to store the collected data. The data collection unit may also allow the viewing data to be read and or accessed by the space shift detector and or the metering devices and . The data collection unit may periodically or aperiodically transmit the collected data to the central processing facility via the network or via a different communication link. The data collection unit may use any network communication protocol such as FTP e mail etc. to transmit the collected data to the central processing facility . The central processing facility is configured to receive the data collected from the data collection unit and process the received data. The central processing facility may process or analyze the received data to determine audience demographic information program viewing statistics advertising viewing statistics etc.

In some cases media content and data associated with the media content that is transmitted between the content storage and viewing sites and may be encrypted. In this case the data may be decrypted before analyzing if sufficient licensing is available e.g. licensing from a digital recording playback device manufacturer . If licensing is not available any unencrypted data associated with the media content e.g. source address destination address etc. may be used to identify the media content and determine if the media content is space shifted.

The network connection may be any type of network connection suitable for use with the network . For example the network may be a wireless network in which case the network connection is a wireless interface e.g. Bluetooth wireless technology . A person of ordinary skill in the art will readily appreciate that there are many types of network connections and any of these network connections may be used if they are compatible with the network . The network connection also enables the space shift detector to communicate with other devices e.g. the digital recording playback devices and the metering devices and the home network media server the data collection unit etc. and or receive media content from other devices.

The software meter is configured to communicate with the digital recording playback devices and and or the home network media server and to determine if the received media content is space shifted. More specifically the software meter is configured to communicate with the digital recording playback devices and and or the home network media server using software APIs. The software APIs may be based on an open API e.g. an API that is documented and available for public use and or a closed API e.g. an API that is proprietary to the manufacturer and or designer of the digital recording playback devices and and or the home network media server . Regardless of the type of software API used the software meter is configured to use the software APIs to query the digital recording playback devices and and or the home network media server to determine if the media content received by the device s is space shifted to determine a destination and or a source of the space shifted media content etc. If the software meter determines the media content is space shifted the software meter may store a value in the memory device to indicate the media content is space shifted. The value may be of any type such as for example a Boolean value e.g. a bit set to 1 or true when media content is space shifted . The software meter may also store information associated with the source of the space shifted media content and or the destination of the space shifted media content in the memory device such as a network address a network identifier an identifier associated with the content viewing and storage site a serial number associated with the digital recording playback devices and etc.

Persons of ordinary skill in the art will readily appreciate that if the software meter is unable to determine whether or not the media content is space shifted viewing data will still be stored for the viewed media content. Any data that can be extracted from the media content e.g. embedded codes signatures etc. can be stored at the software meter. This data can be used to track viewing of media content when space shifting data is not available.

The digital information monitor analyzer is configured to monitor data accesses to storage devices e.g. reading data from a storage device and or writing data to a storage device associated with each of the digital recording playback devices and and or the home network media server . The digital information monitor analyzer may have access to a data bus used to connect the storage devices to other components within the digital recording playback devices and and or the home network media server . The digital information monitor analyzer is also configured to analyze data e.g. media content written to a first storage device associated with a first one of the digital recording playback devices and and data read from a second one of the second digital recording playback devices and and or the home network media server . In particular the data written to a first storage device may be compared to the data read from a second storage device to determine if the data is identical and or substantially identical. A bit wise comparison may be used by the digital information monitor analyzer to determine if the data accessed by the two digital recording playback devices are identical thereby indicating the data e.g. media content is space shifted.

If the digital information monitor analyzer determines media content is space shifted the digital information monitor analyzer may store a value in the memory device to indicate the media content is space shifted. The value stored by the digital information monitor analyzer may be similar to the value stored by the software meter . As with the software meter the digital information monitor analyzer may also store information associated with the source of the space shifted media content and or the destination of the space shifted media content.

The network analyzer is configured to monitor and analyze data associated with the network e.g. home network traffic . The network analyzer may monitor data transferred or conveyed via the network from one device to another device e.g. from the home network media server to one or more of the digital recording playback devices and from one of the digital recording playback devices and in a first content viewing and storage site to another one of the digital recording playback devices and in a second content viewing and storage site etc. For example the network analyzer may analyze all or substantially all of the data conveyed via the network to determine if the data is of interest to the network analyzer e.g. data such as video data audio data and or command data . If the data is of interest the network analyzer may also determine the source network address such as a source internet protocol IP address and or a destination address such as a destination IP address. If the network analyzer determines the source IP address and or the destination IP address are associated with different ones of the digital recording playback devices and located in different physical locations within the household the network analyzer may determine the media content is space shifted. If the network analyzer determines the media content is space shifted the network analyzer may store a value in the memory device to indicate the media content is space shifted. The value stored by the network analyzer may be similar to the value stored by the software meter . Similar to the software meter the network analyzer may also store information associated with the source of the space shifted media content and or the destination of the space shifted media content.

The time stamper may be configured to associate a time stamp e.g. time and or date information with the space shifted media content and or update the time and or date information contained in the viewing data associated with the space shifted media content. For example the viewing data associated with the space shifted media content may include time and date information e.g. one of the metering devices and associated with the source of the space shifted media content may insert time and date information related to the broadcast time and or the time at which the media content was received and the time stamper generates updated time and date information to reflect the time the space shifted media content is received at the destination digital recording playback device.

The communication module is configured to transmit and receive data via the network connection . The communication module may use any suitable network protocol to transmit and or receive data. The communication module is also configured to access the viewing data associated with the space shifted media content stored in the data collection unit and update the viewing data. The viewing data may be updated to include new date and time information from the time stamper and or an identifier associated with the one of the content viewing and storage sites and that received the space shifted media content.

The memory device is configured to store values indicating the results of the analyses performed by the software meter the digital information monitor analyzer and or the network analyzer . The memory device may be any type of memory such as a non volatile memory device e.g. flash memory or a hard drive or a volatile memory device e.g. random access memory RAM .

For the following discussion of and the content viewing and storage site and its components are referred to by way of example only as the destination for space shifted media content. Of course one of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that any of the example content storage and viewing sites and may be a destination for space shifted media content.

The example space shift detecting process begins when media content is received at a content storage and viewing site such as for example the content storage and viewing site via the network block . In that case the content storage and viewing site may be referred to as the destination site. The metering device detects and extracts identifying data from the received media content block . The metering device may detect and or extract identifying data using any desired method. For example the metering device may be configured to analyze the VBI to detect and or extract video and or audio codes embedded in the media content. The identifying data may contain information such as title information source identification SID time and date information associated with the encoding time the broadcast time and or creation time etc.

After the metering device detects and or extracts the identifying data block the space shift detector queries the digital recording playback device using software APIs block . If a software API is available the space shift detector may request details relating to the media stored on the digital recording playback device . Then the space shift detector analyzes the storage device associated with the digital recording playback device block . Next the space shift detector analyzes data transmitted on the network e.g. home network traffic block . Then the metering device may analyze the locally available media sources block . If the metering device determines that the source of the media content is not available at the local viewing site the media content can be marked as space shifted because it must have been received from another viewing site that can receive the media source. For example if the space shift detector determines that media content at viewing site is from satellite channel and the digital recording playback device at the viewing site does not have access to a satellite tuner the space shift detector can assume that the media content has been space shifted.

The space shift detector analyzes the results of blocks and to determine if the media content was space shifted media content block . If the space shift detector determines the media content is space shifted block the space shift detector updates viewing data associated with the space shifted media content stored in the data collection unit block . The viewing data is updated to include updated time and date information associated with the time and or date at which the space shifted media content is received at the digital recording playback device . The space shift detector may update the viewing time by retrieving the viewing data associated with the space shifted media content stored in the data collection unit and updating the time and date information included in the viewing data. The space shift detector then updates the viewing data to include the source information e.g. the device that provided the media content to the viewing site collected at blocks and and or information associated with the digital recording playback device . Control then returns to block .

Persons of ordinary skill in the art will readily appreciate that the metering device may store identifying data without performing analysis of the data. The identifying data may later be compared at the central processing facility with a list of available media sources to determine if the media source associated with the media content was available at the viewing site.

While illustrates that blocks and are preformed in consecutive order persons of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that these blocks may be performed in any order and some blocks may be performed at the same time. In addition not all of the blocks may be necessary and a subset of the blocks may be used. Logic may be implemented to determine if any of blocks or provide a definitive result as to whether the media content has been space shifted. If a block does definitively indicate that the media content has been space shifted control may proceed directly to block after the block. For example if the space shift detector queries the digital recording playback device and digital recording playback device indicates that the media content is space shifted no further analyses need to be performed and control can proceed to block .

An example process to query a digital recording playback device is illustrated in . Continuing with the above example in which the digital recording playback device is the destination device the example process begins when the space shift detector determines if the digital recording playback device supports software queries block . For example the space shift detector may send the digital recording playback device a message to determine if software queries are supported by the digital recording playback device . If the digital recording playback device does not acknowledge and or respond to the message in a predetermined amount of time the space shift detector may determine the digital recording playback device does not support software queries. Alternatively the space shift detector may search a database or list containing information such as manufacturer names and or model numbers associated with the digital recording playback device to determine if the digital recording playback device supports software queries. In any case if the digital recording playback device does not support software queries the example process ends and control returns to for example block .

If the space shift detector determines software queries are supported at block the space shift detector queries the digital recording playback device using software APIs block . For example the space shift detector may query the digital recording playback device to determine if media content received by the digital recording playback device is from another digital recording playback device e.g. one of the digital recording playback devices and and or a different content viewing and storage site e.g. one of the content viewing and storage sites and .

If the space shift detector determines the digital recording playback device is not receiving media content from another digital recording playback device or content viewing and storage site i.e. the media is not space shifted block then control advances to block . If the space shift detector determines the digital recording playback device is receiving space shifted media content block the space shift detector stores a value in its on board memory to indicate that the media content has been space shifted block and stores information associated with the digital recording playback device and or the digital recording playback device block . The source and or destination information may include an address or identifier associated with the content viewing and storage site and digital recording playback device acting as the source and or an address or identifier associated with the content viewing and storage site and digital recording playback device acting as the destination.

An example process to analyze a storage device associated with a content storage and viewing site is illustrated in . The example process begins when the space shift detector determines the location or areas of the destination storage device where media content is written e.g. a sector of a hard drive block . In particular the space shift detector may determine the area and or data address of the storage device at which received media content is stored. Again continuing with the above example the space shift detector may query the storage device associated with the digital recording playback device query the digital recording playback device analyze a data bus associated with the digital recording playback device etc. The space shift detector then analyzes the data written to the storage device e.g. write data block . The data may be analyzed to determine the type of media content written e.g. a comedy television show encoded in MPEG format for comparison at a later time e.g. at block .

The space shift detector then determines if there are other digital recording playback devices coupled to the network block . For example the space shift detector may determine if there are other digital recording playback devices coupled to the network by scanning the network for other digital recording playback devices. In another example the space shift detector may determine if there are other digital recording playback devices by broadcasting a message via the network and determining if devices acknowledge the message and provide a response.

If the space shift detector determines there are no other digital recording playback devices coupled to the network block control returns to block of . If the space shift detector determines there are other digital recording playback devices coupled to the network block the space shift detector creates a list of the discovered digital recording playback devices coupled to the network block and then identifies and accesses the next digital recording playback device in the list e.g. a source digital recording playback device block .

The space shift detector then determines if the source digital recording playback device in the list is performing a read operation associated with the storage device of e.g. a hard drive or other memory within the digital recording playback device e.g. a source storage device block . For example the space shift detector may query the source storage device query the digital recording playback device analyze a data bus associated with the digital recording playback device etc. to determine if the source storage device is performing a read operation. If the data is not being read from the source storage device block control returns to block .

If the data is being read from the source storage device block the space shift detector analyzes the data being read from the source storage device e.g. some media content block . The space shift detector compares the read data to the write data collected at block to determine if the read data is identical or substantially identical to the write data block . If the read data is not identical or substantially identical to the write data block control returns to block . On the other hand if the read data is identical or substantially identical to the write data block the space shift detector determines the received media content is space shifted from the digital recording playback device which in this example is the source to the digital recording playback device which in this example is the destination . The space shift detector then stores a value that indicates the received media content is space shifted media content block and stores the information associated with the source and or destination digital recording playback device and similar to block of block . Control then returns to block of .

An example process to analyze home network traffic is shown in . The example process begins when the space shift detector determines a network address associated with a destination digital recording playback device e.g. the digital recording playback device block . For purposes of clarity the destination address will be referred to as destination address IP1. The space shift detector may determine the destination address IP1 by analyzing data received by the destination digital recording playback device via the network . For example the space shift detector may analyze the received data and determine an IP address contained in the data and determine the IP address is associated with the destination digital recording playback device.

After the destination address IP1 has been determined block the space shift detector analyzes data packets conveyed via the network block . For example the space shift detector may analyze the data packets by examining the information contained in the data packets. In particular the space shift detector may analyze the data packet s and determine if a destination address associated with the data packet s is equal to the destination address IP1 block . If the destination address associated with the data packet s is not equal to the destination address IP1 block control returns to block of .

However if the destination address associated with the data packet is equal to the destination address IP1 block the space shift detector determines if the data packet contains video data and or audio data block . If the data packet contains video data and or audio data block the space shift detector analyzes the data packet to determine a source address associated with the data packet block . The space shift detector may determine the source digital recording playback device by determining the source address associated with the data packet.

If the data packet does not contain video data and or audio data block the space shift detector determines if the data packet contains command data associated with a digital recording playback device block . If the data packet does not contain command data associated with a digital recording playback device block control advances to block of . If the data packet does contain command data associated with a digital recording playback device control advances to block and the space shift detector determines the source address associated with the data packet.

After the space shift detector determines the source address associated with the data packet block the space shift detector stores a value that indicates the received media content associated with the data packet is space shifted media content block . The space shift detector also stores information associated with the source digital recording playback device and or the destination digital recording playback device similar to the information stored in block of block and then returns to block of .

A block diagram of an example computer system is illustrated in . The computer system may be a personal computer PC or any other computing device. In the example illustrated the computer system includes a main processing unit powered by a power supply . The main processing unit may include a processor electrically coupled by a system interconnect to a main memory device a flash memory device and one or more interface circuits . In an example the system interconnect is an address data bus. Of course a person of ordinary skill in the art will readily appreciate that interconnects other than busses may be used to connect the processor to the other devices . For example one or more dedicated lines and or a crossbar may be used to connect the processor to the other devices .

The processor may be any type of well known processor such as a processor from the Intel Pentium family of microprocessors the Intel Itanium family of microprocessors the Intel Centrino family of microprocessors and or the Intel XScale family of microprocessors. In addition the processor may include any type of well known cache memory such as static random access memory SRAM . The main memory device may include dynamic random access memory DRAM and or any other form of random access memory. For example the main memory device may include double data rate random access memory DDRAM . The main memory device may also include non volatile memory. In an example the main memory device stores a software program which is executed by the processor in a well known manner. The flash memory device may be any type of flash memory device. The flash memory device may store firmware used to boot the computer system .

The interface circuit s may be implemented using any type of well known interface standard such as an Ethernet interface and or a Universal Serial Bus USB interface. One or more input devices may be connected to the interface circuits for entering data and commands into the main processing unit . For example an input device may be a keyboard mouse touch screen track pad track ball isopoint and or a voice recognition system.

One or more displays printers speakers and or other output devices may also be connected to the main processing unit via one or more of the interface circuits . The display may be a cathode ray tube CRT a liquid crystal displays LCD or any other type of display. The display may generate visual indications of data generated during operation of the main processing unit . The visual indications may include prompts for human operator input calculated values detected data etc. As described in detail below these displays may be generated by firmware in a pre boot environment. In addition text strings used on these pre boot displays may be in a user selected language.

The computer system may also include one or more storage devices . For example the computer system may include one or more hard drives a compact disk CD drive a digital versatile disk drive DVD and or other computer media input output I O devices. In addition to the text strings stored in the flash memory device if any one or more storage devices e.g. a hard disk may store text strings in one or more languages.

The computer system may also exchange data with other devices via a connection to a network . The network connection may be any type of network connection such as an Ethernet connection digital subscriber line DSL telephone line coaxial cable etc. The network may be any type of network such as the Internet a telephone network a cable network and or a wireless network. The network devices may be any type of network devices . For example the network device may be a client a server a hard drive etc.

Although the following discloses example systems including software or firmware executed on hardware it should be noted that such systems are merely illustrative and should not be considered as limiting. For example it is contemplated that any or all of these hardware and software components could be embodied exclusively in hardware exclusively in software exclusively in firmware or in some combination of hardware firmware and or software. Accordingly while the following describes example systems persons of ordinary skill in the art will readily appreciate that the examples are not the only way to implement such systems.

Although certain methods apparatus and articles of manufacture have been described herein the scope of coverage of this patent is not limited thereto. On the contrary this patent covers all apparatus methods and articles of manufacture fairly falling within the scope of the appended claims either literally or under the doctrine of equivalents.

