---

title: Subscriber device and subscription management that supports real-time communication
abstract: Subscription management for resource content is disclosed. A subscriber device selects an event topic based on an event topic list. The subscriber device creates a topic path for the selected event topic to receiving a notification event related to the selected event topic. The subscriber device sends path information of the created topic path as part of identification information of the subscriber device, along with the selected event topic, to a resource content publishing device, and the topic path indicates a document. The subscriber device receives the notification event sent by the resource content publishing device to the subscriber device according to the identification information of the subscriber device, wherein at least one field of the document indicates the receipt of the notification event.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08938502&OS=08938502&RS=08938502
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 08938502
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130808
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 732 232 filed Mar. 26 2010 entitled SUBSCRIBER DEVICE AND SUBSCRIPTION MANAGEMENT THAT SUPPORTS REAL TIME COMMUNICATION now allowed which claims the benefit of Chinese Patent Application No. 200910129572.9 filed Mar. 31 2009 the disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference.

Embodiments of the present invention relate to eventing technologies for resource content and in particular to subscriber devices and subscription management thereof. Embodiments of the present invention further relate to real time communication for resource content.

Web 2.0 technologies are rapidly being adopted by industries and eventing has become an important mechanism for communication between applications using Web 2.0 technologies.

The Atom standard is a Web 2.0 eventing mechanism defined by the Internet Engineering Task Force IETF which defines both a feed format for representing Web resources and a protocol for editing Web resources. The feed format enables Web content syndication and the protocol enables agents to interact with Web sources. In this regard the Atom Publishing Format and Protocol Working Group of the IETF has developed two technologies relevant to content syndication. The Atom Syndication Format RFC 4287 referred to herein as Atom is an Atom format in IETF terminology. The Atom Publishing Protocol RFC 5023 referred to herein as AtomPub is an application level protocol for publishing and editing Web resources. However Atom and AtomPub are primarily defined for publishing the abstract and syndication of Web content for browser based clients. More particularly Atom feed providers only use the AtomPub protocol to create update delete feeds and Atom feed users retrieve feeds from an Atom feed server by implementing pulling functions to get the latest content. Therefore the efficiency of eventing fully depends on the frequency of retrieving operations by users and the Atom and AtomPub in the conventional art do not support real time eventing.

Bayeux is a protocol for transporting asynchronous messages over HTTP. The primary purpose of Bayeux is to implement responsive user interactions for Web clients using Asynchronous JavaScript and XML Ajax and Comet a server push technique . The Bayeux protocol supports two transport types of Comet Streaming transport and Long Polling transport both of which require long run HTTP sessions between a client and a server. Moreover the whole eventing session requires the client and the server to be available. Therefore resource consumption is high. Still further Bayeux is not a real time eventing mechanism.

According to an aspect of the present invention a subscriber device selects an event topic based on an event topic list. The subscriber device creates a topic path for the selected event topic to receiving a notification event related to the selected event topic. Further the subscriber device sends path information of the created topic path as part of identification information of the subscriber device along with the selected event topic to a resource content publishing device and the topic path indicates a document. Moreover the subscriber device receives the notification event sent by the resource content publishing device to the subscriber device according to the identification information of the subscriber device wherein at least one field of the document indicates the receipt of the notification event.

According to a further aspect of the present invention a subscriber device selects an event topic based on an event topic list. The subscriber device creates a default topic path for the selected event topic to receiving a notification event related to the selected event topic. Further the subscriber device sends default path information of the created topic path as part of identification information of the subscriber device along with the selected event topic to a resource content publishing device. Moreover the subscriber device receives the notification event sent by the resource content publishing device to the subscriber device at the default topic path.

Now referring to the figures in particular to a block diagram of a distributed data processing system i.e. a computer network is described in which various aspects of the present invention may be implemented. The distributed data processing system contains a network which is a medium providing communication links between different devices and computers connected within the distributed data processing system .

In the depicted example a server and a storage are connected to the network . In addition clients and such as workstations personal computers cell phones and PDAs are also connected to the network . In the depicted example the server provides data e.g. boot files operating system and applications for the clients and . The distributed data processing system may include additional servers clients or other devices not shown in the figure. In the depicted example the distributed data processing system is the Internet and the network represents a collection of networks and gateways that use the TCP IP protocol suite to communicate with one another. Alternatively the distributed data processing system may also be implemented as a number of different types of networks.

Aspects of the present invention may be implemented as a data processing system of the sever shown in . The data processing system may be a symmetric multiprocessor SMP system including a plurality of processors connected to a system bus. Alternatively a single processor system may be adopted. Various aspects of the present invention may also be implemented as a data processing system of the client computers in .

Various aspects of the present invention provide a subscriber device a subscription management method thereof and a real time communication method and system for resource content. illustrates a block diagram of a subscriber device and a real time communication system including the subscriber device. illustrates a flow chart of a resource content subscription management method of the subscriber device. Correspondingly illustrates a flow chart of a real time communication method for resource content.

As illustrated in the real time communication system for resource content includes a resource content publishing device and at least one subscriber device capable of communicating with one another via a network . The resource content publishing device may be connected with at least one external resource content generator so as to obtain event topics and resource content in a predetermined format generated by the resource content generator or event topics and resource content sent by the resource content generator to the resource content publishing device . Alternatively the resource content generator may be located inside the resource content publishing device so that the resource content publishing device may receive event topics and resource content in various formats generated by the resource content generator .

The subscriber device includes an event topic selection apparatus a topic path creating apparatus and a sending apparatus . The event topic selection apparatus is configured to select an event topic based on an event topic list. The topic path creating apparatus is configured to create for the selected event topic a topic path for receiving a notification event related to the selected event topic. The sending apparatus is configured to send path information of the created topic path as part of identification information of the subscriber device along with the selected event topic to the resource content publishing device . The subscriber device further includes a receiving apparatus configured to receive the notification event sent by the resource content publishing device according to the identification information of the subscriber device to the subscriber device.

The resource content publishing device includes a resource content server an event subscription manager an event sending manager and a reversed event processing apparatus . The resource content server is configured to receive the identification information of the subscriber device from the subscriber device and to receive the event topic selected by the subscriber device based on the event topic list. The event subscription manager is configured to add the received identification information of the subscriber device and the selected event topic to an event topic subscription search table.

When new resource content is available at the resource content generator based on the event topic subscription search table the resource content server obtains the identification information of the subscriber device s subscribing to an event topic related to the new resource content. The event sending manager is configured to send a notification event including the new resource content to each corresponding subscriber device according to the identification of that subscriber device.

Operations of the subscriber device and the real time communication system for resource content are described in details with reference to and

Particularly the resource content publishing device creates a topic and its resource content server obtains an event topic related to resource content from the resource content generator and adds the event topic to the event topic list managed by the event subscription manager .

The subscriber device initiates a subscription and obtains the event topic list by sending a subscription request to the resource content publishing device . Thereby the subscriber device selects an event topic and creates for the selected event topic a topic path for receiving a notification event related to the selected event topic. The subscriber device also sends to the resource content publishing device the selected event topic and identification information of the subscriber device including path information of the created topic path. Alternatively considering the fact that the subscriber device may subscribe to a topic from a third party information source the subscriber device may first obtain a topic list from the third party information source select an event topic and create a topic path and send to the resource content publishing device the selected event topic and subscriber device identification information including topic path information.

The path created by the subscriber device for receiving the notification event related to the selected event topic may be a newly created directory folder related to the event topic so as to receive each updated notification event related to an event topic as a corresponding new file in a corresponding topic path directory. Alternatively it is possible to use some fields in a document e.g. XML document or database under the topic path related to the event topic so that each notification event related to the event topic may be added to a corresponding part of the document.

In addition to the path information of the created topic path the identification information of the subscriber device may include at least a Web address e.g. URI IP address or MAC address of the subscriber device. Alternatively the identification information of the subscriber device may include at least an identifier that can be converted to a Web address of the subscriber device. In the case where the identification information of the subscriber device includes at least an identifier that can be converted to a Web address of the subscriber device the resource content server or event sending manager of the resource content publishing device has to convert the identification information of the subscriber device into a Web address of the subscriber device and the event sending manager sends the notification event according to the Web address.

The resource content publishing device receives the identification information of the subscriber device from the subscriber device and receives the event topic selected by the subscriber device based on the event topic list step S . Then the resource content publishing device adds the identification information of the subscriber device and the selected event topic to the event topic subscription search table step S . When new resource content is available the resource content publishing device obtains based on the event topic subscription search table the identification information of the subscriber device subscribing to an event topic related to the new resource content step S and the resource content publishing device sends a notification event including the event topic and the new resource content to the subscriber device according to the identification of the subscriber device step S .

For the selected event topic the subscriber device creates a topic path for receiving each notification event related to the selected event topic and has the resource content publishing device obtain the topic path so that the resource content publishing device may send the notification event directly to the topic path. Therefore the real time communication method and system according to aspects of the present invention fully realize real time eventing in push mode and avoid the drawbacks of eventing by polling or long live sessions in the conventional art.

Furthermore according to the first embodiment different topic paths receive notification events of different event topics. Therefore the subscriber device may manage the notification events of different event topics conveniently e.g. perform a corresponding process on a received event consumption news reading mp3 downloading etc. after receiving the updated notification event.

To cancel subscription to a topic the subscriber device sends to the resource server of the resource content publishing device a topic subscription cancelation request. The resource content server deletes the event topic and corresponding subscriber device identification information from the event topic subscription search table in the event subscription manager .

Further the subscriber device and the subscription management method and the real time communication method and system for resource content according to various aspects of the present invention may facilitate bidirectional real time eventing between the resource content publishing device and the subscriber device . The subscriber device may further include a reversed event generator configured to create a reversed event in response to a received notification event or create a reversed event independently. The reversed event includes reversed event content edited by the subscriber device or the reversed event includes the reversed event content and an event topic which is replicated by the subscriber device which is the same as that of the notification event concerned. In this regard the resource content publishing device may accordingly perform one or more actions based on the event topic in response to reception of the reversed event. In order for the subscriber device to create the reversed event independently the selected event topic may be included in attribute information of the topic path of the subscriber device.

The reversed event may include only the reversed event content edited by the subscriber device . Therefore for reversed events related to different event topics a topic path for receiving a reversed event of a corresponding event topic needs to be created at the resource content publishing device and the identification information of the resource content publishing device including the topic path may be added in e.g. the event topic list. While obtaining the event topic list and selecting an event topic of interest the subscriber device may obtain the topic path of the corresponding event topic therefore the subscriber device may send a reversed event directly to the topic path at the resource content publishing device according to the identification information of the resource content publishing device.

Topic paths at the resource content publishing device and the subscriber device for the same event topic may be the same or different. For example the resource content publishing device and the subscriber device may use the same topic path for receiving notification events of the same event topic and may also use a topic name as part of the path name. Therefore the subscriber device may send a reversed event which includes only the reversed event content to the topic path of the resource content publishing device according to a Web address of the resource content publishing device. The Web address used as the identification information of the resource content publishing device may be obtained by the subscriber device before initiating a subscription request similarly to how it is done in the conventional art.

Alternatively the reversed event may include the reversed event content and an event topic which is replicated by the subscriber device and is the same as that of the notification event concerned. Therefore the selected event topic and the identification information which may alternatively include only a Web address of the resource content publishing device for providing a notification event related to the event topic needs to be stored at the subscriber device . Thereby the subscriber device may send the reversed event to the resource content publishing device according to the identification information of the resource content publishing device. The resource content publishing device processes the reversed event according to the event topic contained in the reversed event.

For example as shown in accordingly the resource content publishing device may include a reversed event processing apparatus configured to process a reversed event according to an event topic. The resource content server may further be configured to receive a reversed event sent by the subscriber device and send the reversed event to the reversed event processing apparatus.

For the first embodiment alternatively the notification event may be sent to a path at the subscriber device defined according to a predefined rule. The path defined according to a predefined rule may be a default path such as a temporary directory or a root path. The default path may replace the topic path created in the first embodiment to receive notification events related to any selected event topic. Therefore the subscriber device only needs to send identification information which is constituted by a subscriber device Web address along with the selected event topic to the resource content publishing device.

When new resource content is available the resource content publishing device sends to the subscriber device a notification event consisting of the event topic and the new resource content according to the Web address of the subscriber device and the subscriber device distributes the notification event to a corresponding topic path according to the event topic and a search table of topic paths. In the case where notification events are distributed to respective topic paths inside the subscriber device the notification events arrived at the respective topic paths may include only the event content and include no event topics. Alternatively the subscriber device no longer creates a topic path but performs consumption directly in the default path according to the event topic.

Alternatively the path defined according to a predefined rule may be a predefined path having a path name which is the event topic. In that case the predefined path may also replace the topic path created in the first embodiment to receive notification events related to the selected event topic. And while sending the selected event topic the subscriber device does not need to send path information of the predefined path as part of its identification information to the resource content publishing device . The resource content publishing device just needs to obtain the predefined rule for defining paths then the resource content publishing device can send new resource content directly to a particular predefined path after obtaining the new resource content.

In the alternate embodiment the subscriber device may send the identification information of the subscriber device while sending the selected event topic to the resource content publishing device or send the identification information of the subscriber device while sending the subscription request to the resource content publishing device .

In the alternate embodiment in order to realize bidirectional eventing the subscriber device may create a mapping table search table between the selected event topic and the identification information including a Web address or including a Web address and a remote topic path of the resource content publishing device. In the case where a particular topic path is created by the subscriber device a mapping table among the selected event topic a local topic path and the identification information of the resource content publishing device may be created.

The subscriber device and the subscription management method thereof and the real time communication method and system for resource content according to various aspects of the present invention may process resource content in any forms especially resource content applied in Web 2.0. According to aspects of the present invention the event sending manager in the resource content publishing device may use a format convertor not shown in the figure to convert resource content in any forms or an event topic and the resource content into feed information in the RSS or Atom format and send the feed information to the subscriber device according to a protocol for the RSS or Atom feed format. Therefore the drawback of traditional XML transport protocols such as the AtomPub protocol that two protocols and eventing mechanisms need to be configured to realize resource content receiving and notification event publishing is avoided. While applied in Web 2.0 systems aspects of the present invention do not require other protocols used separately therefore simplicity is achieved.

When the resource content publishing device obtains new resource content in the RSS or Atom feed format from an external resource content generator the event sending manager may send the new resource content in the RSS or Atom feed format to a topic path of the subscriber device according to the corresponding RESTful or AtomPub protocol. Alternatively in the case where the topic path is not obtained the event sending manager may pack the event topic and the new resource content as feed information in the same format and send it to a default path of the subscriber device according to the RESTful or AtomPub protocol. In this regard the event sending manager does not need to convert the event topic into the feed information if it is sent to the topic path of the subscriber device directly.

Because notification events are sent in the real time using Web 2.0 formats and protocols HTTP operation methods may be simply mapped to operation methods for the events. For example the list of available topics may be obtained using the HTTP GET operation the HTTP DELETE operation may be mapped as subscription cancellation and the HTTP PUT operation may be mapped as the sending of event information.

In the second embodiment the resource content publishing device further includes an event history manager . The event history manager is connected with the resource content server and is configured to generate event change history information related to a predetermined event topic by recording the content of notification events related to the predetermined event topic e.g. all event topics and by recording the content of corresponding sending and receiving changes. The resource content server is further configured to send to the subscriber a link to the event change history information so that the subscriber device may obtain the event change history information via the link.

Event topics for selection by the subscriber device may be represented by a complex event topic set constituted by at least two separate event topics with a predetermined relation there between. The complex event topic set is generated by the resource content server or combing or composing according to a predefine rule at least two separate event topics provided by at least one resource content generator or .

After the subscriber device selects a complex event topic set to be the subscribed topic when new resource content is available the resource content server or determines whether the event topic of the new resource content belongs to the complex event topic set. If it is determined that the event topic of the new resource content belongs to the complex event topic set the resource content server or creates a complex event by applying a predefined rule to the new resource content where the predefined rule describes the relation between separate events related to the complex event topic set. For instance a complex event may be created by modifying or otherwise combining original events. Moreover the resource content server or sends the complex event to the subscriber device.

For example if the relation between at least two topics in the complex event topic set is simple combination then the resource content server generates a complex event by combining simple events related to the at least two topics. If the relation between at least two topics in the complex event topic set is a predetermined event mode e.g. multiple events need to be output in a predetermined order or multiple events have other mutual limitations then the resource content server or generates a complex event by processing simple events related to the at least two topics according to a rule describing the predetermined event mode e.g. nesting or composing the simple events in the predetermined order .

Similarly the real time communication system for resource content of the third embodiment may be combined with the first embodiment the second embodiment and other alternate embodiments e.g. with reversed event processing or using Web 2.0 formats .

The subscriber device is configured to select an event topic based on a event topic list create for the selected event topic a topic path for receiving a notification event related to the selected event topic and send path information of the created topic path as part of identification information of the subscriber device along with the selected event topic to the resource content publishing device .

The resource content publishing device may include a resource content server for publishing to the intermediate device resource content generated by the resource content generator . In the case where the resource content publishing device includes the resource content generator alternatively the resource content publishing device may include an event sending manager for sending resource content according to a predetermined format.

The intermediate device includes an intermediate server an event subscription manager and an event sending manager . The intermediate server is configured to receive the identification information of the subscriber device from the subscriber device via the network and receive the event topic selected by the subscriber device based on the event topic list. The event subscription manager is configured to add the identification information of the subscriber device and the selected event topic to an event topic subscription search table wherein when new resource content is available at the resource content server the intermediate server obtains based on the search table managed by the event subscription manager the identification information of the subscriber device subscribing to an event topic related to the new resource content. The event sending manager is configured to send a notification event including the event topic and the new resource content to the subscriber device .

The real time communication system for resource content of the fourth embodiment may be used in combination with the second embodiment event history management the third embodiment complex event management and other alternate embodiment e.g. with reversed event processing or using Web 2.0 formats .

For example as shown in the the resource content publishing device may include an event history manager for generating event change history information related to a predetermined event topic. The resource content server obtains the event change history information from the event history manager .

The intermediate server in the intermediate device is configured to obtain the event change history information e.g. by checking periodically in the form of podcasting whether the resource content server has new event change history information from the resource content server . The intermediate server may further store the event change history information in a storage e.g. a cache . The intermediate server may also send a link to the event change history information to the subscriber device subscribing to the predetermined event topic so that the subscriber device may obtain the event change history information via the link.

Similarly complex event management may be implemented in the real time communication system for resource content of the fourth embodiment. First the intermediate server in the intermediate device generates a complex event topic set by combining or composing according to a predefined rule at least two separate event topics provided by at least one resource content server and send it to e.g. the event subscription manager to manage the same.

After the subscriber device subscribes to the complex event topic set from the intermediate server the intermediate device determines whether the event topic of the new resource content obtained from the resource content server of the resource content publishing device belongs to the complex event topic set. If the event topic of the new resource content belongs to the complex event topic set a complex event processing apparatus of the intermediate device creates a complex event. A complex event is created for example by applying to the new resource content a predefined rule describing the relation between separate events related to the complex event topic set e.g. in a manner analogous to that set out in greater detail herein with reference to the third embodiment.

In the case where reversed event processing is included the subscriber device sends a generated reversed event to the intermediate server . The intermediate server or the event sending manager forwards the reversed event to the resource content server in order for the reversed event processing apparatus to perform accordingly. In this case preferably the event topic subscription search table managed by the event subscription manager includes the identification information of the subscriber device and the selected event topic as well as identification information of the resource content publishing device providing resource content related to the selected event topic.

If the subscriber device generates a reversed event for a complex event topic set the intermediate server send the reversed event to the complex event processing apparatus after receiving the same. The complex event processing device obtains each of separate original topics according to the complex event topic set and obtains identification information of a corresponding resource content publishing device providing each of the separate original topics so as to send to a corresponding resource content publishing device for processing.

Various aspects of the present invention provide a subscriber device and a subscription management method thereof and a real time communication method and system for resource content. The subscriber device and the subscription management method thereof are used to facilitate the receiving of resource content from resource content publishing devices by the subscriber device and the real time communication method and system are used to push information to interested users subscriber devices in real time.

According to aspects of the present invention a real time communication method for resource content is provided comprising selecting based on an event topic list by a subscriber device an event topic creating for the selected event topic a topic path for receiving a notification event related to the selected event topic and sending path information of the created topic path as part of identification information of the subscriber device along with the selected event topic to a resource content publishing device. The method further comprises receiving from the subscriber device by the resource content publishing device the identification information of the subscriber device and the selected event topic and adding the identification information of the subscriber device and the selected event topic to an event topic subscription search table. The method also comprises if new resource content is available obtaining based on the event topic subscription search table by the resource content publishing device identification information of a subscriber device subscribing to an event topic related to the new resource content and sending a notification event including the new resource content to the subscriber device.

According to still other aspects of the present invention a subscriber device is provided comprising an event topic selection apparatus configured to select an event topic based on an event topic list a topic path creating apparatus configured to create for the selected event topic a topic path for receiving a notification event related to the selected event topic a sending apparatus configured to send path information of the created topic path as part of identification information of the subscriber device along with the selected event topic to a resource content publishing device and a receiving apparatus configured to receive the notification event sent by the resource content publishing device according to the identification information of the subscriber device to the subscriber device.

According to yet further aspects of the invention a real time communication system for resource content is provided which comprises a subscriber device and a resource content publishing device. The subscriber device is configured to select an event topic based on an event topic list and create for the selected event topic a topic path for receiving a notification event related to the selected event topic. The subscriber device is also configured to send path information of the created topic path as part of identification information of the subscriber device along with the selected event topic to a resource content publishing device. The resource content publishing device comprises a resource content server configured to receive the identification information of the subscriber device from the subscriber device and to receive the event topic selected by the subscriber device based on the event topic list an event subscription manager configured to add the identification information of the subscriber device and the selected event topic to an event topic subscription search table wherein when new resource content is available the resource content server obtains based on the event topic subscription search table the identification information of the subscriber device subscribing to an event topic related to the new resource content and an event sending manager configured to send a notification event including the new resource content to the subscriber device according to the identification of the subscriber device.

According to further aspects of the present invention the subscriber device creates for the selected event topic a topic path for receiving a notification event related to the selected event topic and the resource content publishing device obtains the topic path so that the resource content publishing device sends the notification event directly to the topic path. Therefore the real time communication method and system for resource content fully realizes real time eventing in push mode and avoids the drawbacks of realizing eventing via pulling or long live session in the prior art.

Preferably the real time communication method and system for resource content according to aspects of the present invention may facilitate bidirectional real time eventing between the resource content publishing device and the subscriber device. The subscriber device may create a bidirectional event in response to a received notification event or independently according to a pre replicated subscribed event topic. The reversed event includes reversed event content edited by the subscriber device or includes the reversed event content and an event topic which is stored by the subscriber device and is the same as that of a notification event concerned. Therefore the resource content publishing device may process accordingly based on the event topic after receiving the reversed event.

In the case where the resource content publishing device receives reversed events preferably a topic path for receiving a reversed event of a corresponding event topic is created at the resource content device for reversed events of different event topics. The topic path at the resource content device and the subscriber device for the same event topic may be the same or not the same. Preferably the resource content publishing device and the subscriber device use the same topic path to receive notification events of the same event topic. More preferably the topic name is used as part of the path name. If the resource content publishing device and the subscriber device use different topic paths for the same event topic a mapping table between the subscribed event topic and the local and remote topic path has to be built.

Preferably the real time communication method and system for resource content according to aspects of the present invention may process resource content in any forms especially Web 2.0 resource content to meet the requirement of real time events based on Web 2.0 communications. According to aspects of the present invention the event sending manager in the resource content publishing device may convert resource content in any forms or the resource content together with an event topic into feed information in the RSS or Atom format and send the feed information to the subscriber device according to a protocol for the RSS or Atom feed format. While applied in Web 2.0 systems aspects of the invention do not require complex protocols therefore simplicity is achieved. Especially in the case where the resource content publishing device obtains new resource content from an external resource content generator the protocol used by the original resource content e.g. RESTful or Atompub may be used to convert the resource content in a predetermined format or the resource content together with the event topic may be converted into feed information in the same predetermine format which is sent according to a corresponding protocol.

According to another aspect of the present invention a real time communication system for resource content is provided including a resource content publishing device a subscriber device and an intermediate device connected between the resource content publishing device and the subscriber device. The subscriber device is configured to select an event topic based on a event topic list and create for the selected event topic a topic path for receiving a notification event related to the selected event topic and send path information of the created topic path as part of identification information of the subscriber device along with the selected event topic to the resource content publishing device. The intermediate device includes an intermediate server configured to receive the identification information of the subscriber device from the subscriber device and receive the event topic selected by the subscriber device based on the event topic list. The intermediate device also comprises an event subscription manager configured to add the identification information of the subscriber device and the selected event topic to an event topic subscription search table wherein when new resource content is available at the resource content server the intermediate server obtains based on the search table managed by the event subscription manager the identification information of the subscriber device subscribing to an event topic related to the new resource content. The intermediate device further comprises an event sending manager configured to send a notification event including the event topic and the new resource content to the subscriber device.

Various aspects of the present invention may be employed by terminal users in applications of the client server model and is important for the establishing of a corporate architecture allowing server to server communication. The intermediate device according to the invention is integrated with an event subscription manager and an event sending manager therefore the load on the Web side server i.e. the resource content publishing device may be reduced.

As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art aspects of the present invention may be embodied as a system method or computer program product. Accordingly aspects of the present invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module or system. Furthermore aspects of the present invention may take the form of a computer program product embodied in one or more computer readable medium s having computer readable program code embodied thereon.

Any combination of one or more computer readable medium s may be utilized. The computer readable medium may be a computer readable signal medium or a computer readable storage medium. A computer readable storage medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable storage medium would include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM an optical storage device a magnetic storage device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. In the context of this document a computer readable storage medium may be any tangible medium that can contain or store a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

A computer readable signal medium may include a propagated data signal with computer readable program code embodied therein for example in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. Such a propagated signal may take any of a variety of forms including but not limited to electro magnetic optical or any suitable combination thereof. A computer readable signal medium may be any computer readable medium that is not a computer readable storage medium and that can communicate propagate or transport a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

Program code embodied on a computer readable medium may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to wireless wireline optical fiber cable RF etc. or any suitable combination of the foregoing

Computer program code for carrying out operations for aspects of the present invention may be written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The program code may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

Aspects of the present invention are described below with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

It should be understood by those skilled in the art that the scope of the various embodiments of the present invention set out herein are not limited to the explicit disclosure in the specification and various variations and equivalents within the essential spirit of the embodiments of the present invention are also included.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable medium that can direct a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable medium produce an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer other programmable apparatus or other devices to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide processes for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The flowchart and block diagrams in the Figures illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems methods and computer program products according to various embodiments of the present invention. In this regard each block in the flowchart or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems that perform the specified functions or acts or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

The description of embodiments of the present invention have been presented for purposes of illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the embodiments of the present invention in the form disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the embodiments of the present invention.

Having thus described various embodiments of the present invention in detail herein it will be apparent that modifications and variations are possible without departing from the scope of the embodiments of the present invention defined in the claims.

