---

title: Parental control system using more restrictive setting for media clients based on occurrence of an event
abstract: A first media client may set a parental control feature of the first media client to a first setting. The first media client may determine an occurrence of an event associated with the parental control feature. The first media client may determine a second setting of a parental control feature of a second media client. The second media client may be different from the first media client. The first media client may determine that the second setting is a more restrictive setting relative to the first setting. The first media client may set the parental control feature of the first media client to the second setting based on the occurrence of the event and based on the second setting being the more restrictive setting.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09282368&OS=09282368&RS=09282368
owner: VERIZON PATENT AND LICENSING INC.
number: 09282368
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130530
---
A continually increasing number of multimedia options are being provided to customers. Unlimited access to these options may not be desirable for certain age groups. A parent may use a parental control feature to prevent a child from accessing individual devices or particular content that the parent deems inappropriate based on the age of the child.

The following detailed description refers to the accompanying drawings. The same reference numbers in different drawings may identify the same or similar elements.

Systems and or methods described herein may support implementing a parental control feature on devices included in a home network. The parental control feature may be customized by an administrator e.g. a parent for each user and or each device included in the home network.

Referring to to prevent the children from circumventing the parental feature by viewing age inappropriate content via the set top boxes located in the parent s bedroom when the parent is not around the parent may configure the parental control feature for the set top box located in the parent s bedroom to revert to a most restrictive setting if there is no activity at the set top box in the parent s bedroom for a particular period of time. As shown in the parental feature for the set top box in the parent s bedroom will automatically revert to the setting for the parental control feature for the set top box in the children s bedroom if there is no activity at the set top box in the parent s bedroom for a period of 3 hours.

Media client may include a device capable of receiving transmitting and or processing multimedia content and providing the multimedia content to a user e.g. via display device . Media client may allow a user to provide input for interactive menus e.g. to navigate menu displays or input data and to alter programming and or content provided by media client to display device based on a signal e.g. a channel up or channel down signal from for example a remote control not shown .

Media client may include a device capable of receiving transmitting and or processing information e.g. information regarding parental controls to and or from another media client within a customer premises. Media client may manage multiple user accounts and restrict permit user input based on the user accounts. Media client may also receive and or send data e.g. information regarding a setting of a parental control feature to another media client and or server device . Examples of media client may include a set top box a computer a cable card a gaming device a portable electronic device and or other types of devices capable of receiving transmitting and or processing multimedia content and providing the multimedia content to a user.

Display device may include any digital or analog display that is capable of presenting audio and or video content provided by media client . Display device may include technologies such as cathode ray tube CRT displays liquid crystal displays LCDs light emitting diode LED displays plasma displays etc. In some implementations media client may be incorporated into display device . Examples of display device may include a television a computer monitor and or other types of devices capable of presenting audio and or video content.

Server device may include one or more server devices that gather process search and or provide information in a manner described herein. Examples of server device may include a headend device that provides broadcast television programs and or pay per view PPV events a video on demand VOD device or another device that provides multimedia content upon request and or a program guide information server that provides information related to multimedia content available to media client .

Network may include one or more wired and or wireless networks. For example network may include a cellular network a public land mobile network PLMN a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN a telephone network e.g. the Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN an ad hoc network an intranet the Internet a fiber optic based network and or a combination of these or other types of networks.

Although shows example components of environment in some implementations environment may include fewer components different components differently arranged components or additional components than those depicted in . In some implementations one or more components of environment may perform one or more tasks described as being performed by one or more other components of environment .

As shown in device may include bus processor memory input device output device and communication interface . Bus may include a path that permits communication among the components of device . Processor may include a processor a microprocessor an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or another type of processor that interprets and executes instructions. Memory may include a random access memory RAM or another type of dynamic storage device that stores information or instructions for execution by processor a read only memory ROM or another type of static storage device that stores static information or instructions for processor and or a magnetic storage medium such as a hard disk drive or a removable memory such as a flash memory.

Input device may include a mechanism that permits an operator to input information to device such as a control button a keyboard a keypad a touch screen interface a microphone a camera a video recorder or another type of input device. Output device may include a mechanism that outputs information to the operator such as a light emitting diode LED a display a speaker or another type of output device. Communication interface may include any transceiver like mechanism that enables device to communicate with other devices or networks. In one implementation communication interface may include a wireless interface a wired interface or a combination of a wireless interface and a wired interface.

Device may perform certain operations as described in detail below. Device may perform these operations in response to processor executing software instructions contained in a computer readable medium such as memory . A computer readable medium may be defined as a non transitory memory device. A memory device may include space within a single physical memory device or spread across multiple physical memory devices.

The software instructions may be read into memory from another computer readable medium or from another device via communication interface . The software instructions contained in memory may cause processor to perform processes described herein. Alternatively hardwired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement processes described herein. Thus implementations described herein are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.

Although shows example components of device in some implementations device may include fewer components different components differently arranged components or additional components than depicted in . In some implementations one or more components of device may perform one or more tasks described as being performed by one or more other components of device .

As shown in data structure may include a device name field a network address field a parental control setting field and a time out event field . In some implementations data structure may be associated with a particular media client . For example media client may store a separate data structure for each media client included in a customer premises.

Device name field may store a device identifier and or other information identifying a media client and or display device . For example device name field may store a unique sequence of characters a name of a location e.g. a name of a particular room or area within a customer premises in which media client and or other information that can be used to uniquely identify a media client and or a display device within a customer premises.

Network address field may store information identifying a network address of media client . For example network address field may identify a media access control MAC address an IP address etc. associated with media client .

Parental control setting field may store information for determining whether media client is to provide particular content. For example parental control setting field may store information identifying content ratings e.g. ratings from the Motion Picture Association of America MPAA Television Parental Guidelines system etc. of content that is and or is not permitted to be provided by media client a pre defined parental control setting e.g. an unrestricted setting a restricted setting a conservative setting a moderate setting a liberal setting an age group setting e.g. ages 2 5 etc. associated with preventing particular content from being provided by media client information identifying one or more genres e.g. drama horror comedy educational programming children s programming etc. of content is and or is not to be provided by media client and or other types of information for determining whether media client is to provide particular content.

Time out event field may store information for determining an occurrence of a time out event. Upon occurrence of a time out event media client may modify a parental control setting as further described in connection with . For example time out event field may store information indicating that a time out event occurs when media client receives a particular input from a user when display device and or media client has been turned off when media client has been idle e.g. has not received any input from a user for a particular period of time after expiration of a particular period of time from authenticating a particular user and or other information for determining an occurrence of a time out event.

Although shows example fields of data structure in some implementations data structure may include additional fields different fields or fewer fields than those depicted in .

As shown in process may include initiating a configuration of a parental control feature block . For example the user may use a remote control to cause media client to provide a list of menu items for display on display device . The list of menu items may include an item for configuring a parental control feature of media client . The user may select the item to initiate a configuration of the parental control feature.

In some implementations media client may attempt to authenticate the user. For example in response to the user selecting the item media client may request that the user enter a personal identification number. The user may enter the personal identification number by for example pressing one or more keys on the remote control. Media client may compare the entered personal identification number to a stored personal identification number. Media client may authenticate the user and provide the user interface for configuring the parental control feature when the entered personal identification number matches the stored personal identification number. If the entered personal identification number does not match the stored personal identification number media client may cause a notification to be displayed on display device indicating that the entered personal identification number is incorrect and or that the user is prohibited from accessing the parental control feature.

In some implementations the user may initiate the parental control feature and may identify one or more media clients associated with the parental control feature and or one or more preferences relating to configuring the parental control feature for each of the one or more media clients . For example the user may have multiple media clients located in different areas of the customer s premises e.g. the customer s home . The user may initiate the parental control feature and identify one or more preferences relating to configuring the parental control feature for each media client . In some implementations the user may identify the same one or more preferences for each of the multiple media clients . In some implementations the user may identify one or more different preferences for one or more of the multiple media clients .

In some implementations the user may identify the one or more preferences using one or more elements of a user interface provided by media client . The one or more elements may include for example one or more text input elements one or more drop down menu elements one or more checkbox elements one or more radio button elements and or any other types of elements that may be used to receive information from the user.

In some implementations the one or more preferences may include a preference of the user with respect to a particular rating or group of ratings of content. For example the preference may identify ratings e.g. R PG 13 PG G TV MA TV Y TV G etc. of content that is and or is not to be provided by media client .

In some implementations the one or more preferences may include a preference of the user with respect a particular type of content. For example the preference may identify content labels e.g. fantasy violence FV violence V sexual situations S coarse or crude language L suggestive dialog D etc. keywords e.g. boxing MMA wrestling etc. and or types of content horror romance sports etc. that is and or is not to be provided by media client .

In some implementations the one or more preferences may include a preference of the user with respect to an occurrence of a time out event. The user may provide information for determining whether media client is to modify a setting of a parental control feature upon an occurrence of a time out event and or information for determining the occurrence of the time out event. For example the preference may include information indicating that media client is to enable a time out event feature and that media client is to determine an occurrence of a time out event based on media client being idle for a particular amount of time e.g. 3 hours media client and or display device being turned off receiving information identifying an occurrence of a time out event associated with another media client receiving information identifying a setting of the parental control feature that is more restrictive conservative than a current setting of the parental control feature receiving a signal associated with a user initiated time out event from another device e.g. a remote control another media client and or server device .

In some implementations the one or more preferences may include a preference of the user with respect to an action to be taken in response to an occurrence of a time out event. For example the preference may identify an action to be performed by media client when an occurrence of a time out event is detected. The action may include detecting other media clients determining a setting of the parental control feature for the other media clients determining a most restrictive setting of the parental control feature modifying a setting of the parental control feature and or changing the setting of the parental control feature to a most restrictive conservative setting.

In some implementations a type of the account of the user associated with the parental control feature may determine preferences that the user is able to identify. For example the parental control feature may enable the user to identify only a particular group of the above preferences and or identify additional preferences based on the type of the account with which the user is associated. For example a user having a premium level account may be able to initiate the configuration for multiple media clients via a single media client while a user having a non premium level account may have to initiate the configuration of each of the media clients at the particular media client .

In some implementations the parental control feature may analyze information relating to media client and or a user associated with media client to determine the one or more preferences of the user relating to media client providing content. For example the information relating to media client may include information identifying media client within a customer premises. Based on the information identifying media client media client may set one or more preferences of the user to a particular setting. As an example assume that the information relating to media client includes information indicating that media client is located in a child s bedroom. Media client may set one or more preferences of the user to a setting that prevents mature content from being provided via media client .

Process may include transmitting information identifying preferences block . In some implementations media client may transmit information identifying the one or more preferences to another media client and or server device . The other media client and or server device may receive the information identifying the one or more preferences and may store the information identifying the one or more preferences in a memory. For example the user may identify one or more preferences relating to configuring the parental control feature for media client and one or more preferences relating to configuring the parental control feature for the other media client . Media client may transmit information identifying the one or more preferences relating to configuring the parental control feature of media client and or the one or more preferences relating to configuring the parental control feature of the other medial client to the other media client and or server device . The other media client and or server device may store the information identifying the one or more preferences relating to configuring the parental control feature of media client and or the one or more preferences relating to configuring the parental control feature of the other medial client in a data structure such as for example data structure .

Process may include storing preferences and configuring the parental control feature block . For example a user of media client may cause media client to store all or a portion of the preferences. In some implementations media client may store all or a portion of the preferences in a memory associated with media client . In some implementations the parental control feature of media client may be configured based on media client storing all or a portion of the preferences. In some implementations media client may store all or a portion of the preferences in a data structure such as for example data structure .

While shows process as including a particular quantity and arrangement of blocks in some implementations process may include fewer blocks additional blocks or a different arrangement of blocks. Additionally or alternatively some of the blocks may be performed in parallel.

For assume that in response to the mom selecting the option YES media client provides the user interface for configuring the parental control feature and that the mom has used the remote control to configure the parental control feature for the media client located in her room. As shown in the mom has set the parental control feature to allow all content to be provided via the media client located in her room. Further the mom has set the parental control feature to revert to a most restrictive setting of the settings for the media clients located in her room Billy s room the living room and the guest room upon the television connected to the media client located in her room being turned off. The mom may select the option SAVE to configure the parental control feature for the media client located in her room. The mom may then use highlight another location to configure the parental control feature for the media client associated with that location.

As indicated above are provided merely as an example. Other examples are possible and may differ from what was described with regard to .

As shown in process may include determining a setting of a parental control feature block . For example media client may provide a list of programs to a user e.g. in response to a command from the user via display device and the user may select one of the listed programs using for example a remote control. Media client may access preference information e.g. information stored in data structure associated with a parental control feature of media client . Media client may determine a setting of the parental control feature based on the preference information.

Process may include enforcing the setting of the parental control feature block . For example in response to the user selecting one of the listed programs media client may determine whether to provide the selected program to the user based on the setting of the parental control feature. In some implementations the setting of the parental control feature may identify prohibited content. For example the setting of the parental control feature may identify a group of content ratings e.g. content rated R PG 13 TV M etc. of content that is not to be provided by media client . Media client may determine a content rating of the selected program. Media client may determine not to provide the selected content when the content rating of the selected program is included in the group of content ratings.

Process may include determining an occurrence of a time out event block . For example media client may access preference information e.g. information stored in data structure associated with configuring the parental control feature of media client . The preference information may include information for determining an occurrence of a time out event. Media client may determine that a time out event has occurred based on the information.

In some implementations the information for determining the occurrence of the time out event may include information identifying a particular event. The particular event may include media client being idle e.g. media client has not received an input from a user no activity has occurred at media client etc. for a particular amount of time a particular amount of time elapsing a particular amount of time elapsing since a user associated with an administrator account e.g. a parent has been authenticated e.g. entered a personal identification number password etc. a particular time of day e.g. 8 00 pm between 8 00 am and 5 00 pm etc. a particular day of week a user turning off media client and or display device media client tuning to a particular channel e.g. a channel for providing video on demand a movie channel e.g. HBO Showtime etc. etc. another media client modifying a setting of a parental control feature to a particular setting e.g. a most restrictive setting a user attempting to access the parental control feature entering an incorrect personal identification number and or an incorrect password a particular number of times and or information identifying other types of events. Media client may determine that a time out event has occurred based on an occurrence of the particular event.

Process may include determining a most restrictive setting of the parental control feature block . For example media client may access preference information associated with the user and or media client . Media client may determine a most restrictive setting based on information included in the preference information. In some implementations the preference information may identify multiple settings for parental control features associated with one or more media clients . Media client may determine a most restrictive setting of the multiple settings.

For example the multiple settings may include an unrestricted setting for allowing all content to be provided by media client a moderate setting for preventing a first group of content from being provided by media client and a restricted setting for preventing a second group of content from being provided by media client . Media client may determine that the second group of content e.g. content rated PG prevents media client from providing the second group of content and from providing the first group of content e.g. content rated R . Media client may determine that the restricted setting is the most restrictive setting based on the second group of content preventing media client from providing content included in the second group of content and from providing content included in the first group of content.

In some implementations media client may determine that a particular setting of the multiple settings prohibits a widest range of content from being provided and or is associated with a youngest age group of users. Media client may determine that the particular setting is the most restrictive setting based on the particular setting prohibiting the widest range of content from being provided and or being associated with the youngest age group of users.

In some implementations media client may determine that the preference information identifies a particular type of content e.g. graphic violence V explicit sexual activity S crude indecent language L suggestive dialog D etc. etc. Media client may determine the most restrictive setting for preventing the particular type of content from being provided.

In some implementations media client may determine a most restrictive setting of the parental control feature from a group of settings associated with multiple media clients . For example media client may be included in a home network that includes another media client . Media client may determine a setting of a parental control feature of the other media client . Media client may determine that the setting of the parental control feature of the other media client is more restrictive than the setting of the parental control feature of media client .

In some implementations media client may determine the setting of the parent control feature for the other media client based on information received from another device e.g. the other media client and or server device . For example each media client associated with a particular user and or a particular customer premises e.g. a particular home network may send parental control feature information to other media clients associated with the particular user and or the particular customer premises. The parent control feature information may include information identifying a setting of the parental control feature of the media client sending the parental control information. Each media client may send the parental control information periodically upon determining an occurrence of a time out event and or upon a user changing one or more portions of preference information related to the parental control feature of the media client sending the parental control information.

In some implementations media client may determine a most restrictive setting based on preference information of the user. For example media client may access preference information associated with the user. The preference information may include information for determining the most restrictive setting. In some implementations the information for determining the most restrictive setting may include information identifying a particular media client . Media client may determine the most restrictive setting based on a setting of the parental control feature of the particular media client .

In some implementations the information for determining the most restrictive setting may identify a particular setting of a group of predetermined settings of the parental control feature. For example the parental control feature may include a set of predetermined settings targeted to different groups of users e.g. a set of predetermined settings that restricts content based on an age of a user . The information for determining the most restrictive setting may identify a predetermined setting targeted to a particular group of users e.g. a predetermined setting targeted to a youngest age group of users .

Process may include setting the setting of the parental control feature to the most restrictive setting block and determining whether to provide content based on the most restrictive setting block . For example media client may set the setting of the parental control feature to the most restrictive setting based on the occurrence of the time out event. In some implementations when a user subsequently selects a program media client may determine whether to provide the selected program based on the most restrictive setting. In some implementations media client may determine the occurrence of an event while providing particular content for display via display device . Based on setting the parental control feature to the most restrictive setting media client may determine to stop providing the particular content.

In some implementations media client may provide a notification via for example display device that indicates that the user is prohibited from viewing a selected program information regarding the occurrence of the time out event and or information regarding the setting of the parental control feature to the most restrictive setting. In some implementations the notification may allow the user to enter a personal identification number and or password for viewing the selected program and or reverting the setting of the parental control feature to a previous setting.

In some implementations media client may cause a parental control feature of another media client to be set to the most restrictive setting based on setting the parental control feature to the most restrictive setting. For example a customer premises may include multiple media clients interconnected via a home network. In response to setting the parental control feature of media client to the most restrictive setting media client may determine that a parental control feature of one or more media clients of the multiple media clients are set to a less restrictive setting than the most restrictive setting. Media client may send a message to the one or more media clients . The message may include information identifying the occurrence of the time out event and or information identifying the most restrictive setting. The one or more media clients may receive the message and may set the parental control feature to the most restrictive setting.

While shows process as including a particular quantity and arrangement of blocks in some implementations process may include fewer blocks additional blocks or a different arrangement of blocks. Additionally or alternatively some of the blocks may be performed in parallel.

Referring now to the set top box may access data structure to determine an occurrence of a time out event. The set top box may identify information related to the parental control feature of the set top box based on the particular name associated with the set top box. Based on the identified information the set top box may determine that the parent turning the television off constituted an occurrence of a time out event and that the set top box should change the setting of the parental control feature to a most restricted setting e.g. from UNRESTRICTED to G RATING .

Referring now to assume that Mary has come into the parent s bedroom to watch a particular show that her parent does not believe is appropriate for her on her parent s television. Further assume that Mary has used the remote control to cause the set top box to tune to a particular channel on which the show is being broadcast. As shown in based on the parental control setting being set to the most restricted setting the set top box blocks Mary from watching the show and causes a notification to be displayed that informs Mary that the show is blocked and that Mary can unblock the show if she enters the correct password.

As indicated above are provided merely as an example. Other examples are possible and may differ from what was described with regard to .

The foregoing description provides illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the embodiments to the precise form disclosed. Modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teachings or may be acquired from practice of the implementations.

As used herein the term device is intended to be broadly interpreted to refer to hardware or a combination of hardware and software such as software executed by a processor.

To the extent the aforementioned embodiments collect store or employ personal information provided by individuals it should be understood that such information shall be used in accordance with all applicable laws concerning protection of personal information. Additionally the collection storage and use of such information may be subject to consent of the individual to such activity for example through well known opt in or opt out processes as may be appropriate for the situation and type of information. Storage and use of personal information may be in an appropriately secure manner reflective of the type of information for example through various encryption and anonymization techniques for particularly sensitive information.

It will be apparent that systems and methods as described above may be implemented in many different forms of software firmware and hardware in the implementations illustrated in the figures. The actual software code or specialized control hardware used to implement these systems and methods is not limiting of the implementations. Thus the operation and behavior of the systems and methods were described without reference to the specific software code it being understood that software and control hardware can be designed to implement the systems and methods based on the description herein.

Even though particular combinations of features are recited in the claims and or disclosed in the specification these combinations are not intended to limit the disclosure of the possible implementations. In fact many of these features may be combined in ways not specifically recited in the claims and or disclosed in the specification. Although each dependent claim listed below may directly depend on only one other claim the disclosure of the possible implementations includes each dependent claim in combination with every other claim in the claim set.

No element act or instruction used in the present application should be construed as critical or essential unless explicitly described as such. Also as used herein the article a is intended to include one or more items and may be used interchangeably with the phrase one or more. Where only one item is intended the term one or similar language is used. Further the phrase based on is intended to mean based at least in part on unless explicitly stated otherwise.

