---

title: Network resource management with prediction
abstract: An indicator for a device may provide an indication that a threshold associated with a budget for a network resource has or will be reached. When a user requests a network operation that will consume the network resource, an amount of the network resource to be consumed by the operation is predicted, if possible. If the prior use of the network resource and the amount to be used to complete the network operation exceeds a threshold the user may be warned and given an opportunity to cancel the operation or adjust the way in which the operation will be performed. If the amount of network resource a network operation will consume is unknown, a rate of use of the network resource is determined and a time until the budget is reached is estimated.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08892732&OS=08892732&RS=08892732
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08892732
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130401
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 492 854 filed Jun. 9 2012 entitled NETWORK RESOURCE MANAGEMENT WITH PREDICTION which is now U.S. Pat. No. 8 429 272 issued Apr. 23 2013 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 726 209 filed Mar. 17 2010 entitled NETWORK RESOURCE MANAGEMENT WITH PREDICTION which is now U.S. Pat. No. 8 230 061 issued Jul. 24 2012. The entirety of each of these afore mentioned applications is incorporated herein by reference.

Computing devices can provide network connectivity using a number of different wired and wireless technologies. The networks to which devices connect are sometimes provided as a subscription based service for which a consumer pays. Familiar examples of network services are wireline telephone services wireless phone voice and data services Internet services and television services. While the service plans that network service providers offer vary widely in terms and structure many service plans are based on providing a limited amount of access to a network resource at a fixed cost. If a user exceeds the usage limit the network service provider usually charges the customer for each additional increment of use. For example a wireless phone plan may permit a certain number of voice minutes and a certain amount of data be transferred for the customer during a month. When a customer exceeds the usage limit for voice minutes the network service provider may charge the customer for each minute over the limit. Similar overage charges may be imposed for data transfers once the data usage limit is exceeded.

The inventors have recognized and appreciated that the complexity associated with the manner in which network services are used makes it difficult for users of network services to anticipate when service limits will be reached or exceeded. Consequently users may be faced with unexpected costs incurred due to exceeding a usage limit of a network resource associated with a network service. Without feedback it can be difficult for the user to predict whether the usage limit has been exceeded particularly if the user shares the network resource with other users or if the network resource is accessed from multiple devices or by multiple applications.

A tool may be provided for managing network resources by budgeting use of the network resource across users devices and applications. As one example a user device may be configured to provide an indicator showing the user that usage of the network resource is approaching has reached or exceeded a budgeted limit. The user now knowing the usage of the network resource may be afforded the opportunity to adjust use of the network resource accordingly. Budgets may be set for one or more entities acting as network resource consumers that may share a network subscription. The entities for example may be users devices or applications.

In some embodiments an indicator is output from a user device when an amount of the network resource used approaches the usage limit. For example a threshold may be set as a percentage of the usage limit for example 90 of the usage limit. When the threshold is met or exceeded the indicator is output.

In some embodiments when a consumer of network resources initiates an operation that would consume a network resource a prediction is made of how much of the network resource the operation will consume. If the operation involves transfer over the network of content that is of a known size an indicator may be output on the user device if completing the operation results in exceeding a usage threshold. If the content is of unknown size an indicator may be output indicating how long the operation may continue before the usage limit is reached. The system may control whether use of the network resource is stopped or allowed to continue once the usage limit of the network resource has been reached.

Some aspects relate to managing a set of one or more network services for a group of one or more users. An administrative tool may allow an administrator of the group to view network resource usage and set policy related to resource usage for the group of user. For example the administrator may set a budget for each user of a shared network resource. A user s budget may guarantee the user access to a portion of the network resource or may simply limit the user s access provided the overall usage limit of the resource is not exceeded. In some embodiments a guaranteed budget and a shared budget is defined for each user in a group that shares a network resource.

In some embodiments the administrative tool allows the user to review each user in the group s use of the set of network services. The administrative tool may further permit review of network resources per device and or per application. Budgets may be set for devices and applications across user or per user.

The inventors have recognized and appreciated that the user experience of networked computers can be improved by allowing users of a network service to control and monitor their usage of a network resource. For example a user may monitor her use of the network resource to avoid exceeding a usage limit of the network resource. Once a user s consumption of the network resource exceeds the usage limit a service plan may deny access to the network service or require the user to pay for additional access. As current systems place a large burden on users to assess their usage of the network a user may be unaware that she is approaching or has exceeded the usage limit set by her service plan. The inventors have recognized and appreciated that use of network resources may be managed by setting resource use budgets for users devices and or applications. The budgets may be used to control an indicator that may be output on a user device if the user is approaching reached or has exceeded a budgeted limit. In this way users of a shared or unshared network resource are given the opportunity to make a decision regarding further usage of the network resource.

In conjunction with specifying budgets actions upon reaching or exceeding thresholds defined as part of the budget may also be defined. These actions may include warning a user of an approaching limit switching to a lower bandwidth connection or blocking access to a network service. These actions may be taken automatically by a component of a computer system that manages connections to networks or other suitable component within a networked computing device.

To facilitate setting of budgets an administrative tool is provided that allows an administrator of the group of users to review usage of network resources by the group of users and set budgets for users devices and applications as desired. The budgets may provide guaranteed and or maximum limits of a network resource that a user device or application may consume.

Network services may include any type of network service that may be provided over a wired and or wireless network. Network services may include for example and not limitation wireline telephone services wireless telephone services wireless data services wired and wireless Internet access services and wired and wireless television and radio services. Though network services may include any information service that may be delivered through wired or wireless communications. Each network service may be provided by a respective network service provider. A user or a group of users may have a relationship with the network service provider that allows the user or group to access the network service. The relationship may be defined by a service plan.

Each of users may be associated with certain user devices such that usage of network services by the device may be assigned to a particular user. Some computing devices may be exclusively or predominantly associated with a single user. For example cellular phone is used predominantly by user smart phone is used predominantly by user netbook and PDA are used predominantly by user and smart phone is used predominantly by user . Though different users have different individual devices multiple users may share a subscription such that network operations performed by any device that share the subscription may count towards any limits of the subscription.

Some devices may be shared by multiple users. If a network subscription is accessed through such a shared device usage bay any of the users may count towards any limits of the subscription. For example users and may share computer users and may share computer and the group of users may each use console . In some embodiments user accounts may be established on devices so that use of a network resource may be associated with a specific user. Users may also be associated implicitly with use of a network resource. For example use may be assigned to the predominant user of a device. Though network resource use may be associated with a user in any suitable way.

In addition to associating use of a network resource with a particular user network resource usage may also be associated with and individually limited for particular applications. In this way use of the network resource is effectively shared such that network usage by frivolous applications may be limited or prevented.

In some embodiments one or more of the users in the group of users is an administrator of the group. One or more of the user devices may provide an administrative tool for the administrator to monitor and control access to the network services. Though use of the network services may be monitored and controlled in any suitable way. In some embodiments for example the devices may report network resource usage to the administrative tool.

The users devices services and the interrelationships shown in usage scenario are purely exemplary. Any suitable number or users devices or services types of devices or services and interrelationships thereof may be used.

Processor may be a processor as known in the art or any suitable processing device. For example and not limitation processor may be a central processing unit CPU digital signal processor DSP controller addressable controller general or special purpose microprocessor microcontroller addressable microprocessor programmable processor programmable controller dedicated processor dedicated controller or any other suitable processing device.

Memory may store data and or software modules containing computer executable instructions that when executed by processor perform a desired function. Memory may be a computer readable storage medium as is known in the art or any suitable type of computer readable storage medium. For example and not limitation memory may be RAM a nanotechnology based memory one or more floppy discs compact discs optical discs volatile and non volatile memory devices magnetic tapes flash memories hard disk drive circuit configurations in Field Programmable Gate Arrays other semiconductor devices or other tangible computer storage medium or combination thereof.

UI devices may include any type of UI device for providing and or receiving information including user interface devices as known in the art. I O devices may include for example and not limitation a keypad such as a keyboard pointing device such as a mouse or trackball microphone joystick touch screen display display speaker removable storage drives or a combination thereof.

User device may include any suitable number of network interfaces . Each network interface may be an interface suitable for wired and or wireless communication and may be implemented through any suitable combination of hardware and software configured to communicate over a network. For example a network interface may be implemented as a network interface driver and a network interface card NIC . The driver may be configured to receive instructions from other components of user device to perform operations with the NIC.

A wired network interface may be any suitable type of interface for connecting to a network over a wire e.g. Ethernet fiber optic coaxial .

A wireless network interface may contain hardware components such as a transmitter and receiver to receive and transmit information wirelessly to and from user device . Each wireless network interface may be configured to support any suitable wireless communications protocol. For example a wireless interface may be configured to support any standard or proprietary communications protocol such as those for wireless personal area network WPAN wireless local area network WLAN wireless local area network WLAN wireless metropolitan area networks wireless MAN wireless wide area network WWAN or other types of networks. Network interfaces may for example and not limitation be configured for use with any of IEEE 802.11 Wi Fi ultra wide band UWB technologies Bluetooth Wireless USB WiMedia WiMax Wireless 1394 Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Time Division Multiple Access TDMA Global System for Mobilization GSM Cellular Digital Packet Data GPRS or General Packet Radio Service GPRS .

User device may also include modules configured to perform specific functions. In the illustrated embodiment user device includes an operating system OS and applications . Though user device may have any suitable modules. Modules may be implemented in hardware software or any suitable combination thereof. In some embodiments a module may comprise computer executable instructions. The instructions may be stored in memory and executed by processor .

OS may manage the activities and sharing of resources of user device . OS may provide various functions and manage user device through various components. These components may include for example and not limitation dynamically linked libraries e.g. a dynamic link library application programming interfaces APIs component object models COMs globally unique identifiers registry keys or any uniquely identifiable part of OS .

Applications may include any suitable computer applications. In the embodiment illustrated applications may consume network resources. For example applications may send and receive e mails download files or access web pages. Though user device may include any suitable applications.

Device may further include components to manage network usage. These components may include for example an administrative tool that allows an administrative user to set budget limits and specify actions upon reaching thresholds associated with these limits a usage monitor and a network service connector . These components may be part of the operating system or may be regarded as applications. However the implementation as an application or operating system component is not critical. For example in some embodiments administrative tool usage monitor and network service connector may be implemented as modules of operating system .

Network service connector is a module for establishing maintaining and terminating connectivity between network services and user device . Network service connector may control network interfaces to provide connectivity to the network services.

Administrative tool is a module for managing a consumer s or group of consumers use of one or more network resources. Administrative tool may provide an interface through UI devices through which a consumer or an administrator may manage subscriptions to network services. In some embodiments administrative tool is restricted for use to one or more administrators. Users that are not administrators may not be able to use administrative tool or may only be able to view information without the ability to make changes. Though access to administrative tool may be configured in any suitable way.

In some embodiments administrative tool provides an interface for reviewing how the network resources are being consumed. Administrative tool may detail which consumers have used a network resource when they used it how much they used what device or application they used to consume the resource and the like. Administrative tool may also provide an interface for establishing policy for how the network resources may be used. Administrative tool may provide an interface for setting budgets for resource consumers. For example resource consumers such as users devices and applications may each have a budget set through administrative tool . Administrative tool may also be used to set thresholds for warning a user that a budget or usage limit is being approached. The resource consumption by users or user groups devices and applications may be checked against the policy and presented through a user interface of administrative tool . Some examples of a user interface of administrative tool are subsequently discussed with reference to .

Usage monitor is a module for monitoring consumption of network resources on device and or other devices that share a subscription. Usage monitor may be configured to track usage and determine whether a budget for a network resource has been met or exceeded. In some embodiments usage monitor provides an indication that a threshold associated with a budget has been exceeded. Usage monitor may be used to predict if or when a budget or usage limit will be exceeded. In some embodiments usage monitor reports network resource usage to administrative tool . If administrate tool is on another device a network connection may be used to report usage to administrative tool .

In some embodiments usage monitor interacts with network service connector to issue commands that prevent or limit further access to a network resource once a budget or usage limit has been reached. Though in some embodiments usage monitor may not limit use of the network resource. In some embodiments usage monitor prompts a user regarding an approaching or reached budget and asks the user if she wishes to continue using the network resource potentially at additional cost. In some embodiments usage monitor may present an option to switch to a different network resource for example a resource provided by another network service provider.

Usage monitor may obtain information about thresholds budgets and usage limits from database . Use of a network resource may be recorded by usage monitor for example in database . In some embodiments use of the network resource may be obtained from a network service provider or measured using network interfaces . Though usage monitor may obtain information in any suitable way.

Usage monitor may obtain information on usage of a network resource from network service connector . In addition to obtaining information on usage of a network resource usage monitor may obtain information about the connection over which the network is accessed. The connection for example may identify the user controlling the process that formed the connection or the application accessing the connection. In some embodiments a web service is used to obtain network resource usage information. In this way information about usage by user and application may be collected.

Usage monitor may alternatively or additionally obtain usage information from other sources. For example usage monitor may obtain usage information from a network service provider. As another example in instances where a network subscription may be access from multiple devices monitor may obtain usage information from other devices from a central repository to which all of the devices provide information or any other suitable location.

Regardless of where usage information is obtained the details of network resource usage as well as policy settings used and generated by the administrative tool may be stored as management information. In some embodiments the management information is stored and indexed in database . As shown in the management information stored in database may include user information user device information network services information and applications information . Though the management information may include other types of information and other types of information may be included in database . User information may include information about one or more users such as budgets assigned to a user and network services devices and applications available to a user. User device information may include information such as a budget assigned to the user device. Network services information may include information about network services that may be accessed e.g. service plans the network resources available from each network service and usage limits associated with each network resource. Applications information may include information about budgets assigned to specific applications or groups of applications. Though it should be appreciated that management information may include any suitable information and may be organized in any suitable way.

In some embodiments database may only include information relevant to the users of the user device and the services and applications available on user device . In some embodiments database may be a comprehensive database of user device application and network service information. Though any suitable data may be stored in database .

Database may be stored in memory . In some embodiments database is a remote database accessible via a network service. Though database may be stored in any suitable location or multiple locations. In some embodiments only a portion of database may be stored locally. For example the management information related to user device its users and applications may be stored locally.

In some embodiments user device may be configured to control when time insensitive content is downloaded. In some embodiments time insensitive content is downloaded when usage of the corresponding network resource is below a corresponding threshold. For example user device may perform time insensitive downloads if less than 20 of the network resource has been consumed. In this way time insensitive content such as application updates may be queued for the beginning of a resource usage period avoiding interfering with users at the end of the resource usage period where the network resource may be scarce. In some embodiments user device may download time insensitive content late in the resource usage period to minimize or eliminate waste of the network resource. For example if use of a network resource is projected to be less than the usage limit the shortfall may be consumed with time insensitive downloads.

Having discussed an exemplary usage scenario and the details of a user device a method of managing a network resource of a network service is discussed with reference to . In some embodiments method is a computer implemented method. The steps of method may be performed on a single computer or performed by two or more computers. Though method may be implemented in any suitable way. In some embodiments method is implemented at least in part on a user device.

At step the usage limit for a network resource of a network service is determined. The usage limit represents an amount of the network resource the user or group of users may consume. The usage limit may be a hard limit that may not be exceeded or a soft limit that indicates to the user network resource consumption or makes the user aware of changing terms for using the network resource. For example the usage limit may indicate how much of the network resource the user or users sharing the network resource may consume before being charged at a different rate than a current rate.

In some embodiments the network resource is data transferred using a network service and the usage limit represents the amount of data transfer that may be performed for the user or group of users by the network service. For example a daily weekly or monthly usage limit may be set. Though the usage limit may apply to any suitable time period. In some embodiments transfer of data is limited by a single usage limit. For example the usage may be defined as the total upload and download of data. In some embodiments separate upload and download usage limits may be defined. Separate instances of method may be performed for managing upload data transfer and download transfer. Though method may be implemented in any suitable way.

Any suitable network resource may be monitored. For example in some embodiments the network resource is access time. That is the amount of time the network is accessed. Another example of a network resource is an upload and or download data transfer rate. That is the throughput of data to and or from a user device or group of user devices sharing the network resource. Though method may be applied for any suitable network resource.

The usage limit may be determined by accessing a database on a user device or on a remote server or from received user input. Though the usage limit may be determined in any suitable way. In some embodiments the usage limit is determined by querying a server over a network connection to the network service.

At step at least one usage threshold is determined. A usage threshold represents a level of consumption of the network resource at which a notification should be output to the user. In some embodiments a usage threshold is defined as a fraction of the usage limit. For example the usage threshold may be defined as a percentage of the usage limit such as 80 90 95 or 100 . In some embodiments the usage threshold is defined as a definite value. A usage threshold having a definite value may have the same base unit e.g. byte as the usage limit. For example if the network resource is data the usage limit may be 500 megabytes MB and the usage threshold may be defined as 400 MB. Though the threshold may be defined in any suitable way.

Unless indicated otherwise for simplicity the usage threshold is hereinafter taken to have a definite value. If the threshold is defined relative to the usage limit it may easily be converted into an absolute threshold. For example if the threshold is defined as a percentage e.g. 90 the absolute threshold is simply that percentage of the usage limit i.e. 90 of the usage limit . The threshold may be determined in ways similar to the usage limit. For example the threshold may be input through an administrative tool determined from a local or remote database or from user input. Though the threshold may be determined in any suitable way.

At step the total amount of the network resource currently consumed is determined. The amount consumed may be determined from a local record of usage determined from user input accessed over the network or determined in any suitable way.

At step a determination is made whether a network operation is in progress. A network operation could be any operation that results in any form of consumption of the network resource that is being managed. If the network resource is transferred data a network operation may include copying that data over a network service for example sending information uploading receiving information downloading or a combination of uploading and downloading.

Method waits at step until a network operation begins before continuing to step . At step a determination is made whether the network operation has caused or will cause consumption of a network resource to exceed the threshold. In some embodiments one or more thresholds may be checked at step . For example method may check resource usage against multiple thresholds at step e.g. at 80 90 95 and 100 . Though in some embodiments separate instances of method are performed to check each threshold.

If the network operation relates to a determinable quantity of content the total usage after completing the network operation may be predicted and compared to the threshold. The total usage may for example be predicted by adding the total usage determined at step to the quantity of content to be loaded. If the network operation relates to an indeterminate amount of content such as a live media stream or a telephone call method may compare the total amount of network resource consumed to the threshold.

In either case if the threshold is not exceeded the method returns to step . If however the threshold is exceeded method continues to step and an appropriate action is taken. For example further access to the network resource may be blocked or limited the user device may be switched to a different network service provider or a warning indication may be output to the user. For example an audible sound may be made a message may be displayed total consumption of the network resource displayed or a percent consumption of the resource relative to the usage limit displayed. discussed below illustrate some example embodiments of a warning indicator.

Method may more generally be used to managing any budget not just usage limits. A budget may include an amount of the network resource a user device or application may consume before some action is triggered whether that action is issuing a warning blocking further usage of the network resource or other suitable action. Though a budget may be set for any one or more users devices applications or other entities. The budget may be obtained in ways similar to obtaining the usage limit discussed above. If the budget has not been set by the user or a group administrator a suitable default value may be selected. For example the default value may be the usage limit or the usage limit divided by the number of users of the network resource sharing the usage limit.

In some embodiments multiple instances of method may be executed for managing the same or different network resources. Separate instances of method may be implemented for each budget that pertains to a network resource that is being consumed. Though a single instance of method may be used to track multiple budgets. For example budgets relating to a user a device and application may simultaneously be managed by a single instance of method or separate instances of method may be used to manage the budgets. Similarly the same or different instances of method may be used to check each of multiple thresholds. Single or multiple instances of method may be used to manage multiple budgets or thresholds in any suitable way.

Some embodiments of the warning indicator discussed above with reference to step are shown in . shows a user device . A flag indicates that the user device has exceeded a threshold associated with a network resource. If multiple thresholds are set the color of the indicator may be used to indicate the highest exceeded threshold. For example a yellow flag may indicate 80 of the network resource usage limit has been consumed. Similarly an orange flag and a red flag may be used to indicate 90 and 95 respectively of the network resource usage limit has been consumed.

It should be appreciated that indicators and shown in respectively are merely exemplary. Consumption of the network resource may be indicated in any suitable way.

At step a usage limit is determined. At step a threshold is determined. At step the total usage is determined. At step it is determined if a network operation is in progress. Steps and may be performed in ways similar to steps and of method respectively. It should be appreciated that method may be used to test one or more the thresholds related to the usage limit. Accordingly more than one threshold may be loaded at step . Though method is described with reference to a usage limit it should be appreciated method may be applied to managing a budget of a network resource.

Method continues to check for a network operation at step until a network operation is detected then proceeds to step . At step method determines if the content corresponding to the network operation has a known size. For example if a file is being downloaded metadata sent before or with the file may indicate the file size. Though content size may be determined in any suitable way. On the other hand if for example the user device is receiving streaming media of unknown length e.g. a live stream or is engaged in a telephone call the amount of network resource consumed to complete the loading may be unknown.

If the size is known method continues to step . At step the total network resource usage for when the network operation completes is predicted. The total resource usage may be predicted by adding the total usage determined at step to the amount of content to be loaded to complete the network operation.

At step it is predicted whether the total network resource usage after the network operation is complete will exceed the threshold. If it is determined the threshold will not be exceeded method may end. Though in some embodiments method may return to step to continue monitoring the threshold as shown by dashed line .

If it is predicted at step that the threshold will be exceeded method continues to step and outputs an indication of the total use of the network resource. Total use may be indicated in ways similar to those discussed above at step of method in the ways shown in or in any suitable way. After step method may end or return to step to load another threshold and continue not shown . In some embodiments the indication of total use may prompt the user asking whether they wish to continue the network operation or change how the network operation is performed. Method may then continue to step which is discussed below.

Returning to step if it is determined that the data does not have a known size method continues to step .

At step it is determined whether the network operation has exceeded the threshold. In some embodiments the determination is made by comparing the total usage of the network resource determined at step to the threshold determined at step . Though the determination may be made in any suitable way. If it is determined at step that the total usage of the network resource does not exceed the threshold method returns to step .

If however the threshold is exceeded method continues to step where the rate of use is estimated. Estimating the rate of use may be performed in ways known in the art. In some embodiments the rate of use may be estimated by dividing the total amount of the data transmitted and or received by the user device during a fixed time interval by the length of the time interval. For example the rate of use may be determined as an amount of data loaded per second. Though the rate of use may be determined in any suitable way.

At step the amount of time before exceeding the usage limit is predicted. In some embodiments the difference between the usage limit and the total use is divided by the rate of use to estimate the time. An indicator may be used to show the amount of time before exceeding the usage limit.

In some embodiments method may provide the option to change how the network operation is being performed at step . If changing how the network operation is performed is not available or not desired No step method may end or return to step to monitor for another threshold not shown .

If changing how the network operation is performed is available at step it is determined whether such a change is desired. Whether a change is desired may be determined by policy user input or in any suitable way. In some embodiments the user is prompted that the usage limit is being approached. The prompt may give the user the option to continue the network operation at the current quality to reduce the quality of the network operation to cancel the network operation to switch to another network or to perform any other suitable action. In some embodiments a policy may be evaluated to determine if and how performance of the network operation should be changed. In some embodiments a determination is made whether the content is available using another network service available to the device. A list of network services through which the network operation may be performed may be presented to a user for selection of a network service. Though a network service may be selected automatically for example if the user does not respond to the prompt.

If it is determined at step not to change how the network operation is performed method may end. If it is determined at step to change how the network operation is being performed method continues to step . At step how the network operation is being performed is changed. For example the network operation may be performed on a different network or at reduced quality using the current network. In some embodiments the quality is reduced by reducing the rate of use of the network resource. For example an audio stream encoded at 128 kilobits per second may be reduced to 64 kilobits per second. In some embodiments the quality may be reduced by switching to a lower priority connection. In some embodiments the network operation is cancelled.

If the file size of the content of the network operation is unknown after changing performance of the network operation method may recalculate at step the amount of time the network operation may continue before exceeding the usage limit. After recalculating at step or if the file size is known method may end.

Having discussed methods for managing and predicting usage of a network resource an administrative tool is described with reference to . As discussed above the administrative tool allows an administrator of the group of users to review usage of network resources by the group of users and set budgets for users devices and applications as desired. The administrative tool may be used for managing network services for example in a domestic professional or individual setting. Though the administrative tool may be used for any suitable group of one or more users.

For purpose of illustration of the administrative tool a group of four users and their devices and network services are described with reference to an embodiment of a user interface of the administrative tool. It should be appreciated that the administrative tool may be used for any suitable group of users devices and services.

User interface provides a summary for each network service . The summary may include for example information about cost of the network service the network resources provided by the network service a summary of usage of each network resource a usage limit for each network resource information about how use of the network resource is calculated peak or off peak times which users and devices access the network service and any other information related to the network service.

Each network resource may have a usage limit associated with it. The summary of usage shows the total use of each network resource. For example Wireless Carrier A has two network resources being managed voice and data. The voice network resource has a usage limited of 900 minutes and the data network resource has a data limit of 1 GB. While here for simplicity voice is shown as a single network resource it should be appreciated that different kinds of voice usage may be treated as different network resources. Wireless carriers may set separate usage limits for voice usage base on the day time call origin call destination or any other factor. For example daytime peak off peak regional national international preferred country and other kinds of voice usage may each be treated as separate network resources. A user may have for example an account where off peak national calling is unlimited daytime national has a usage limit of 900 minutes per month and international calling is billed at a per minute rate. Each could be treated as a distinct network resource.

An option may be used to control what time period the displayed usage data relates to. For simplicity user interface uses the same period for each network service. Though different periods may be used for each network service and or network resource.

In addition to displaying the total use of each network resource the usage may be broken down into further details. For example the total use may be broken into segments attributable to each user device or application. Though data use may be displayed in any suitable way. User interface shows an example where option has been selected to break down total use by user. In the example of user interface a progress bar type chart is shown with each user s use represented by a different pattern. A legend is used to interpret the patterns. In the example a first portion of the voice use of Wireless Carrier A was used by user Joey and a second portion was used by user Sally . The use of a progress bar type chart is illustrative and any suitable way of indicating usage may be provided. In some embodiments a network service provider may provide the network resource using one or more different technologies. For example wireless data transfer may be provided by a mobile carrier using 2G 3G or WiMAX. Option may be displayed such that resource usage may be presented to show how much of a network resource was used using each technology. In some embodiments communication using each technology is treated as a separate network resource. For example separate usage limits may be set for 2G 3G and WiMAX communications.

Note that cable service is shown to have an unlimited usage limit of data. The administrative tool may be useful even for unlimited resources to manage or limit usage of certain users devices or applications.

In some embodiments an indication of what behavior should occur if the usage limit is reached. A policy may require a warning be issued to users of the network service or that access to the service be stopped once the usage limit is reached. In some embodiments policy may be set globally for the service or for example on a per user per device or per application basis.

User interface may show a breakdown of the network resource usage on the WMAN. In this example the network resource is transmission of data and has a usage limit of 5 GB. In addition to providing total use details of use may be broken down for example by user device or application. In the example shown in option is selected to break down usage by device. A list of devices and the use of the network resource by each device may be shown. The time period for which usage information is displayed may be adjusted with option .

In some embodiments devices may have separate budgets from users and or devices. User interface as shown in for example shows where the budget for the console system XBox is set. For example when a user is playing a particular game application on the XBox console network usage may count toward budgeted amounts for each of the user application and the console. It may be possible that an administrator sets budgets that are conflicting. That is for one or more of the user budget the device budget and the application budget may permit continued usage while at the same time one or more of the same budgets may not permit further usage. If budgets are set that may be conflicting then a policy may resolve which budgets should be enforced. For example the policy may enforce each budget taking action when the any of the budgeted limits are reached or give certain budgets priority over other budgets.

A user interface similar to user interface may be provided in response to user selection of the option for managing by device is selected e.g. option . For example all devices may be listed and information may be displayed for total device usage usage per user use per network service and or use per application.

It should be appreciated that usage may be monitored and budgeted by an administrator in other suitable ways as well. For example usage limits may be set for a voice user based on the call recipient time of day or any other suitable parameter. As another example an administrator may limit the length of time for individual session a frequency of sessions or place a usage limit for a network resource during a period of time e.g. limit of 2 hours of games per day . Further usage limits may be set based on the type of usage for example multimedia downloads may be limited but general web browsing may be unlimited.

Having thus described several aspects of at least one embodiment of this invention it is to be appreciated that various alterations modifications and improvements will readily occur to those skilled in the art.

Such alterations modifications and improvements are intended to be part of this disclosure and are intended to be within the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the foregoing description and drawings are by way of example only.

The above described embodiments of the present invention can be implemented in any of numerous ways. For example the embodiments may be implemented using hardware software or a combination thereof. When implemented in software the software code can be executed on any suitable processor or collection of processors whether provided in a single computer or distributed among multiple computers.

Further it should be appreciated that a computer may be embodied in any of a number of forms such as a rack mounted computer a desktop computer a laptop computer or a tablet computer. Additionally a computer may be embedded in a device not generally regarded as a computer but with suitable processing capabilities including a Personal Digital Assistant PDA a smart phone a gaming console e.g. Xbox a digital video recorder DVR set top boxes or any other suitable portable or fixed electronic device.

Also a computer may have one or more input and output devices. These devices can be used among other things to present a user interface. Examples of output devices that can be used to provide a user interface include printers or display screens for visual presentation of output and speakers or other sound generating devices for audible presentation of output. Examples of input devices that can be used for a user interface include keyboards and pointing devices such as mice touch pads and digitizing tablets. As another example a computer may receive input information through speech recognition or in other audible format.

Such computers may be interconnected by one or more networks in any suitable form including as a local area network or a wide area network such as an enterprise network or the Internet. Such networks may be based on any suitable technology and may operate according to any suitable protocol and may include wireless networks wired networks or fiber optic networks.

Also the various methods or processes outlined herein may be coded as software that is executable on one or more processors that employ any one of a variety of operating systems or platforms. Additionally such software may be written using any of a number of suitable programming languages and or programming or scripting tools and also may be compiled as executable machine language code or intermediate code that is executed on a framework or virtual machine.

In this respect the invention may be embodied as a computer readable medium or multiple computer readable media e.g. a computer memory one or more floppy discs compact discs optical discs magnetic tapes flash memories circuit configurations in Field Programmable Gate Arrays or other semiconductor devices or other tangible computer storage medium encoded with one or more programs that when executed on one or more computers or other processors perform methods that implement the various embodiments of the invention discussed above. The computer readable medium or media can be transportable such that the program or programs stored thereon can be loaded onto one or more different computers or other processors to implement various aspects of the present invention as discussed above.

The terms program or software are used herein in a generic sense to refer to any type of computer code or set of computer executable instructions that can be employed to program a computer or other processor to implement various aspects of the present invention as discussed above. Additionally it should be appreciated that according to one aspect of this embodiment one or more computer programs that when executed perform methods of the present invention need not reside on a single computer or processor but may be distributed in a modular fashion amongst a number of different computers or processors to implement various aspects of the present invention.

Computer executable instructions may be in many forms such as program modules executed by one or more computers or other devices. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the program modules may be combined or distributed as desired in various embodiments.

Also data structures may be stored in computer readable media in any suitable form. For simplicity of illustration data structures may be shown to have fields that are related through location in the data structure. Such relationships may likewise be achieved by assigning storage for the fields with locations in a computer readable medium that conveys relationship between the fields. However any suitable mechanism may be used to establish a relationship between information in fields of a data structure including through the use of pointers tags or other mechanisms that establish relationship between data elements.

Various aspects of the present invention may be used alone in combination or in a variety of arrangements not specifically discussed in the embodiments described in the foregoing and is therefore not limited in its application to the details and arrangement of components set forth in the foregoing description or illustrated in the drawings. For example aspects described in one embodiment may be combined in any manner with aspects described in other embodiments.

Also the invention may be embodied as a method of which an example has been provided. The acts performed as part of the method may be ordered in any suitable way. Accordingly embodiments may be constructed in which acts are performed in an order different than illustrated which may include performing some acts simultaneously even though shown as sequential acts in illustrative embodiments.

Use of ordinal terms such as first second third etc. in the claims to modify a claim element does not by itself connote any priority precedence or order of one claim element over another or the temporal order in which acts of a method are performed but are used merely as labels to distinguish one claim element having a certain name from another element having a same name but for use of the ordinal term to distinguish the claim elements.

Also the phraseology and terminology used herein is for the purpose of description and should not be regarded as limiting. The use of including comprising or having containing involving and variations thereof herein is meant to encompass the items listed thereafter and equivalents thereof as well as additional items.

