---

title: Sending information at a band edge within an orthogonal frequency-division multiplexing (OFDM) symbol
abstract: Technology is discussed for increasing the spectral efficiency of an Orthogonal Frequency-Division Multiplexing (OFDM) symbol. Spectral efficiency can be increased by adding information to a band edge of the OFDM symbol in connection with measures taken to reduce OOB spectral leakage from the OFDM symbol. Spectral leakage reduction measures can include application of a tapering window to at least a portion of OFDM data in the time domain to reduce power in side-lobes in the frequency domain. In some examples, such measures can comprise reducing transmission power at certain frequencies for a set of adjacent sub-carriers within the OFDM symbol at or near the band edge of the OFDM symbol. The additional bandwidth at the OFDM symbol can be used for many different applications, such as, without limitation, Device-to-Device (D2D) communication and/or Machine-to-Machine (M2M) communication.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08873655&OS=08873655&RS=08873655
owner: Intel Corporation
number: 08873655
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130110
---
With respect to wireless communications the basic underlying physical resource is radio spectrum. Although small spans of additional radio spectrum have become available for wireless communication systems such as Wireless Wide Area Networks WWANs ultimately radio spectrum is a limited resource. Efficient use of the available radio spectrum therefore is one key to dealing with the continually increasing demands placed on WWANs.

Increasing spectral efficiency within the context of WWANs can involve special considerations. For example the mobile radio channels associated with WWANs can be highly time variant and dispersive. The time varying and dispersive nature of such channels can be addressed in part by multicarrier modulation. Multicarrier modulation can be inefficient due to the application of guard bands between carriers to avoid Inter Carrier Interference ICI .

Currently gains are being made with respect to spectral efficiency in WWANs through the use of Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing OFDM . By setting the various subcarriers of a multi carrier WWAN at harmonic frequencies they can be made orthogonal one to another. As a result guard bands between sub carriers can be omitted and sub carriers can even overlap with respect to frequency. Implementation of OFDM in WWANs such as those consistent with the Third Generation Partnership Project 3GPP Long Term Evolution LTE standards has allowed important gains to be made with respect to spectral efficiency. However important gains remain to be made with respect to spectral efficiency not only by means of additional technologies but by improving the spectral efficiency of OFDM implementations themselves.

Reference will now be made to the exemplary embodiments illustrated and specific language will be used herein to describe the same. It will nevertheless be understood that no limitation of the scope of the invention is thereby intended.

Before the present invention is disclosed and described it is to be understood that this invention is not limited to the particular structures process steps or materials disclosed herein but is extended to equivalents thereof as would be recognized by those ordinarily skilled in the relevant arts. It should also be understood that terminology employed herein is used for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting.

As an important statement of the generality of examples discussed in this disclosure while the terminology of the Third Generation Partnership Project 3GPP Long Term Evolution LTE standard is often used throughout this specification it is not intended to be limiting and there are exceptions in the use of more general terminology in portions of this specification to further communicate this point.

As used herein the term substantially refers to the complete or nearly complete extent or degree of an action characteristic property state structure item or result. For example an object that is substantially enclosed would mean that the object is either completely enclosed or nearly completely enclosed. The exact allowable degree of deviation from absolute completeness may in some cases depend on the specific context. However generally speaking the nearness of completion will be so as to have the same overall result as if absolute and total completion were obtained. The use of substantially is equally applicable when used in a negative connotation to refer to the complete or near complete lack of an action characteristic property state structure item or result.

An initial overview of technology embodiments is provided below and then specific technology embodiments are described in further detail later. This initial summary is intended to aid readers in understanding the technology more quickly but is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the technology nor is it intended to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

The application of Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing OFDM contributes to increased spectral efficiency by allowing guard bands to be removed between carriers such as sub carriers in a multi carrier Wireless Wide Area Network WWAN . However the composite OFDM symbol comprising symbols from the various sub carriers traditionally employs guard bands to prevent Out Of Band OOB radiation. In the time domain the composite OFDM symbol has typically been windowed by a substantially rectangular function. Where a Cyclic Prefix CP is added to the data within the OFDM symbol the window can be substantially rectangular so the transition duration in the ramp up and down period can be less than the CP time to avoid Inter Carrier Interference ICI .

As can be appreciated the substantially rectangular OFDM symbol in the time domain results substantially in a sin c function in the frequency domain with a main lobe and side lobes. Unfortunately the high side lobes of the rectangular window can be a key contributor to the out of band OOB leakage. With respect to such a sin c function as depicted in below the first main side lobe can be only around 13 decibels dB down compared to the main lobe. To prevent OOB leakage from side lobes with such high power levels guard bands are traditionally applied on each edge of the OFDM symbol band as is currently the case in Third Generation Partnership Project 3GPP Long Term Evolution LTE standard Rel. 8 9 and 10. Guard bands at the edges of OFDM symbol bands can result in a significant reduction to spectral efficiency. For example in the current 3GPP LTE standards guard bands result in about a 10 loss of bandwidth.

The bandwidths lost to guard bands could provide significant communication resources improving spectral efficiency as long as the OOB radiation can be properly controlled and other scheduled transmissions are not compromised. For example with the proper innovations portions of bandwidth at OFDM symbol band edges presently occupied by guard bands can be employed for Device to Device D2D and or Machine to Machine M2M communications. D2D and M2M communications typically involve the wireless communication of relatively small amounts of data. Therefore D2D and M2M communications may be transmitted with relatively small improvements made by reducing a width of the guard bands. To avoid compromising other scheduled transmissions a CP can be preserved.

Several examples are discussed below of innovations capable of sending information at band edges within an OFDM symbol. Generally examples can involve reducing spectral leakage from an inbound region of an OFDM signal into a guard band of the OFDM symbol. Additional information can be provisioned to at the edge of the OFDM symbol. In some examples this additional information can occupy portions of the OFDM symbol previously reserved for guard bands.

For example a device can be provided at a transmitter within a WWAN system with a windowing module that can be used to reduce OOB spectral leakage. The windowing module can be configured to apply any one of several different types of tapering windows in the time domain to an OFDM symbol other than a rectangular window. A tapering window throughout this application can refer to any window with rounded edges such as by way of example and not limitation a Hamming window a Hann window or a raised cosine window.

Such alternative tapering windows can reduce side lobes particularly the first main side lobes in the frequency domain to prevent OOB leakage and reduce the need for guard bands. The tapering window can be applied before the CP. Where the tapering window is applied before the CP a steep ramp time associated with a substantially rectangular function can be avoided. Where the tapering window is applied after the CP a more gradual slope of the ramp associated with a tapered window could truncate the CP preventing the CP from performing its function in avoiding ICI.

A data module can also be provided with the device to provision information to the OFDM symbol at one or more of its band edges. This information can occupy bandwidth previously unavailable due to the utilization of guard bands. A portion of such bandwidth can be made available due to the decreased power in the frequency domain side lobes as a result of the tapering window. A transmission module can further be provided with the device to prepare and or transmit the OFDM symbol with the additional information in the band edge after application of the tapering window.

In some examples application of a tapering window can result in a broadening of the main lobe in the frequency domain. The broadening of the main lobe in the frequency domain can result in a broadening of sub carriers. Although orthogonality between the sub carriers can be preserved between most sub carriers despite the broadening of the main lobe orthogonality can be lost between the adjacent sub carriers.

In such examples a small tradeoff can be made between complexity and bandwidth. Namely a relatively small amount of equalization complexity can be accepted in exchange for additional frequency bandwidth. The equalization process can be implemented at a transmitter and or a receiver. At transmitter the transmitter can select ICI coefficient information corresponding to a particular tapering window applied in the time domain by the transmitter. The ICI coefficient information can be known a priori for the particular tapering window applied. The ICI coefficient information can then be provisioned to a receiving device so that it can equalize an OFDM signal by removing ICI in adjacent sub carriers.

Some examples can comprise transmitting an OFDM symbol at different powers with respect to frequency to reduce OOB spectral leakage. For example data in a central span of the OFDM symbol can be transmitted at a first relatively high power range. Data at the edges of the OFDM symbol with respect to frequency can be transmitted at relatively lower powers. Multiple different power levels can be applied some pertaining to sub carriers within an inbound region of the OFDM symbol and some pertaining to portions of the bandwidth outside the inbound region and previously reserved for guard bands.

As can be appreciated the substantially rectangular OFDM symbol in the time domain results substantially in a sin c function in the frequency domain with a main lobe and side lobes. Unfortunately the high frequency domain side lobes of the rectangular time domain window can be a key contributor to the out of band OOB leakage. With respect to such a sin c function the first main side lobe can be just around 13 decibels dB down compared to the main lobe. In an effort to mitigate the OOB leakage in these side lobes a traditional time domain window filter can be applied after cyclically appending the CP . However the nature of this time domain window can be significantly constrained in ways that significantly mitigate reductions to side lobe power levels.

To preserve the benefits of the CP with respect to ISI the traditional time domain window filter quickly ramps to unity. Otherwise the CP could become too truncated to serve its purpose. For example if the ramp time is greater than the CP time ISI can result.

Therefore the lead tapering with respect to time of the traditional time domain window filter can be very steep. The symmetrical nature of such a filter can also result in a trailing tapering with respect to time that is also very steep. Therefore although the traditional time domain window filter can serve to round the edges of the resultant transmit symbol the reductions to side lobes in the frequency domain and hence the reduction to spectral leakage can be minimal. Therefore additional measures have been traditionally applied to avoid OOB spectral leakage. Such measures can involve reserving sub carriers at frequency edges of an OFDM symbol band on which data is not transmitted.

Sub carriers carrying data can be disposed within an inbound region of the span of sub carriers . At either edge of the span of sub carriers a guard band can be disposed between an inbound border and an OOB border . A guard band can comprise any number of sub carriers. However data can be omitted from sub carriers such as sub carrier outside of the inbound region and potentially in a guard band.

The reserved bandwidth in the guard bands can be used to provide a buffer zone that can be occupied by relatively high first side lobes of a sin c function in the frequency domain due to the substantially rectangular nature of the OFDM transmit symbol in the time domain. However to insure that power in the side lobes has been sufficiently reduced before an OOB boundary the guard bands must be sufficiently large occupying a sufficient number of sub carriers on which data cannot be transmitted. The size of such guard bands can significantly reduce the amount of bandwidth that can be used for data transmission and reduce spectral efficiency.

For example in the current 3GPP LTE standards guard bands can result in about a 10 loss of bandwidth. Since the maximum bandwidth for an OFDM symbol can be 20 MHz 2 MHz of bandwidth can be lost to guard bands. Considering that Release 8 of the 3GPP LTE standards defines transmission bandwidths for 1.4 MHZ bandwidth waste as great as 2 MHz is significant. The same is true of other guard band bandwidths.

As long as the OOB radiation is properly controlled and other scheduled transmissions are not compromised the bandwidths lost to guard bands could afford significant communication resources improving spectral efficiency. Control of OOB radiation can involve preventing spectral leakage of significant power levels without the use of guard bands or with reduced guard bands. With less bandwidth reserved for guard bands additional information can be communicated at the edges of OFDM symbols. New techniques for controlling spectral leakage however can avoid ISI by preserving CP structures. New approaches to controlling spectral leakage under these constraints can be discussed with respect to the following figure.

Certain sub carriers near the edges of a span of frequencies allocated for an OFDM symbol can be reserved for guard bands. Data can be mapped to the remaining sub carriers designated as inbound sub carriers . An inverse Fourier transform such as without limitation an IFFT can then be performed by a transform block . The output of the inverse Fourier transform places the data in the time domain.

In the time domain a new time domain window can be applied by a transmit window block . The new time domain window can be applied before the application of the CP by the application of the CP block . As can be appreciated the new time domain window which can be referred to herein as a tapering window is distinct from the traditional time domain window filter which is discussed above with respect to and which is applied before the CP. Throughout this application a tapering window can refer to any window with rounded edges. Examples provided by way of illustration and not limitation can include a Hamming window a Hann window or a raised cosine window. Many other windows known to those of ordinary skill in the art such as a Bartlett window can be used as a tapering window.

In some examples the tapering window can be applied to the sub carriers at the band edge of an OFDM symbol. Conversely the time domain signal of the center sub carriers can be weighted by a window that is closer to a rectangular window which has a flat top in the middle. Since the OFDM symbol consists of multiple sub carriers the tapering window can be said to be applied to at least a part of the OFDM symbol.

After application of the tapering window and then after application of the CP a Parallel to Single converter can be used to combine the various time domain data streams to a single transmit signal for transmission on one or more transmitter antennas . The transmitter can comprise any type of a WWAN transmitter such as a transmitter at an evolved Node B eNodeB or at a Uniform Equipment UE . Throughout this application the term eNodeB can be interchangeable with any other type of substantially stationary transmission point in a wireless communication system such as a Base Station. Additionally the term eNodeB can refer to a MaCro Node MCN eNode B or a Low Power Node LPN . An LPN can comprise one of one of a micro cell a pico cell a femto cell a home eNodeB cell HeNB a Remote Radio Head RRH a Remote Radio Equipment RRE a repeater or another type of transmission point having a lower power than is typically used at an MCN. Where the transmitter is located at an eNodeB the transmitter device can include additional functional blocks consistent with Orthogonal Frequency Domain Multiple Access OFDMA forms of OFDM. Where the transmitter is located at a UE the transmitter device can include additional functional blocks consistent with Single Carrier Frequency Domain Multiple Access SC FDMA .

Since the tapering window is applied by the transmit window block before application of the CP by the CP block the CP can fulfill its function of avoiding ISI. Also due to the significant rounding of the edges of the OFDM data the spectral leakage outside of the frequencies allocated for the inbound sub carriers can be reduced significantly. The reduction in the spectral leakage at the band edges of the OFDM can be sufficient to open sub carriers previously reserved as guard band sub carriers to carry data. Therefore a data module can provision information to the sub carriers previously reserved for one or more guard bands . The achievable reductions in spectral leakage can be explained with respect to .

The solid line graphs the frequency response of a rectangular or substantially rectangular window. The logarithmic nature of the graph can explain the variation from a traditional representation of a sin c function. As can be appreciated from the graph the first side lobe is only about 13 dBs lower than the main lobe. Additionally the additional orders of side lobes trail off at a relatively slow rate. Therefore the power in these side lobes can result in significant OOB leakage.

Conversely the side lobes for the other two windowing types have significantly reduced power with respect to their main lobes. For example with respect to the Hann window denoted by the dashed line a drop off of about 30 dB occurs between the main lobe and the first side lobe. As can be appreciated a signal with one thousandth of the power of the original signal power is not as much of a concern with respect to spectral leakage. Even more impressive is the close to 90 dB drop to the first major side lobe in relation to the main lobe with respect to the 4 term cosine window depicted by the dashed line. As can be appreciated additional types of tapered windows can be applied in the time domain with similar results in their frequency response.

In addition to the reduced side lobes for the two alternative windowing functions depicted in a second distinguishing characteristic with respect to the rectangular window can be appreciated. Although more dramatic with respect to the 4 term cosine window the main lobe of both the Hann window and the 4 term cosine window are broadened with respect to normalized frequency. More specifically the main lobe of the Hann window is increased by about a factor of two and that of the 4 term cosine window is increased by a factor of four. In a sense the reduction of the side lobes is purchased with a broadening of the main lobe.

The broadened main lobe can have implications for Inter Carrier Interference ICI . Although the broadened main lobes can leave the orthogonality of most sub carriers unaffected this is not true of all sub carriers. The broadened main lobes can mitigate the orthogonality of adjacent sub carriers. Consequently the larger main lobes of alternative tapered windowing functions can lead to ICI between adjacent sub carriers.

However the potential ICI that could result from the broadened main lobes would be introduced in a highly controlled manner. The ICI that would be introduced would be limited. Furthermore the ICI that would be introduced could be known beforehand as a function of the type of windowing function responsible for its introduction. Since the frequency responses of the various alternative tapering windows are known the ICI that they introduce can be removed by a simple equalization process.

Each of these alternative tapering windows has a known ICI coefficient. For example the ICI coefficient for a Hann window is 0.2. This ICI coefficient for a Hann window can be read from the graph for the Hann window dashed line in where the first null occurs at a normalized frequency value of 0.2. A similar ICI coefficient can be read for the 4 term cosine window resulting in a value of 0.4.

Since the channel responses can be almost identical across a sub carrier and an adjacent sub carrier on either side occupying similar frequencies this ICI coefficient can be used to almost completely remove any ICI introduced. For example the Hann window doubles the main lobe and so introduces ICI between one of its left right neighbors only. Because equalization can be performed at a receiver simply by applying an ICI coefficient as discussed in greater detail below the equalization process involves a small increase in complexity especially when compared to the much more complicated equalization process already involved with Code Division Multiple Access CDMA and Global System for Mobile Communications GSM standards.

Additionally or in the alternative the known frequency responses of various tapered windows that can be applied provide another approach for avoiding ICI. Because the factor by which a main beam is increased for an alternative tapered window relative to the main beam from a rectangular window the distance between data carrying sub carriers can be adjusted accordingly. Although the subcarrier spacing can remain the same data can be sent on alternating subcarriers where no data is sent on skipped subcarriers.

For example since the Hann window doubles the main lobe it can introduce ICI between its neighbor on the left and right with respect to spectrum values. Hence ICI can be illuminated by alternating between sub carriers when allocating data. A similar process can be applied with respect to every fourth sub carrier for the 4 term cosine window.

Therefore the known nature of the frequency response of various possible alternative tapered windows allows ICI to be introduced in controlled ways that can make the ICI removable. Removal of the ICI can be performed by a receiver through a relatively simple equalization process which introduces little complexity. Additionally ICI can be eliminated by alternating between sub carriers that carry data and those that do not but at a cost to throughput. By introducing the removable ICI additional bandwidth can be recovered from the edges of the OFDM symbol because of the accompanying reduced side lobes.

In accordance with one embodiment of the present invention depicts an architecture for a receiver design for the reception and or decoding of OFDM symbols. The design allows for the reception and decoding of additional information that has been transmitted at OFDM band edges. Although various functional blocks can be added or removed the receiver depicted in can be consistent with a receiver under the 3GPP LTE standards such as a UE or an eNodeB. Where the receiver is located at a UE the receiver can include additional functional blocks consistent with reception and or decoding of Orthogonal Frequency Domain Multiple Access OFDMA forms of OFDM received in a downlink from a Radio Access Network RAN . Where the receiver is located at an eNodeB or other type of low power node the receiver can include additional functional blocks consistent with Single Carrier Frequency Domain Multiple Access SC FDMA reception and or decoding of signals received in an uplink from a User Equipment UE . Throughout this application UE can refereed to any type of mobile device and or station and can be configured for transmission and or reception between itself any type of transmission point such as any type of eNodeB other UEs and or any other type of wireless communication device.

One or more antennas can receive an OFDM symbol . A Single to Parallel converter can break out several parallel time domain samples from the OFDM symbol. The CP remover can then remove several of these time domain samples corresponding to a CP. The remaining data bearing time domain samples can then be fed to a transform block . The transform block can perform a Fourier transform such as without limitation a Fast Fourier Transform FFT on the remaining time domain symbols. The output of the Fourier transform places the data in the frequency domain as recoverable sub carriers.

The recoverable sub carriers from the Fourier transform block can correspond to inbound sub carriers and to edge sub carriers . Due to OOB leakage prevention measures as described herein one or more of the sub carriers that would have previously been reserved for a guard band or that would simply have been located near an edge of the OFDM symbol with respect to frequency can carry additional data information. In the frequency domain equalization can be performed by the equalizer detector block to recover modulated sub carriers from the recoverable sub carriers.

In some examples both inbound sub carriers and edge sub carriers can be equalized by the equalizer detector module . In some examples the equalizer detector module can apply a common equalization process to the inbound sub carriers and to edge sub carriers . In certain examples the equalizer detector module can apply different equalization processes to the inbound sub carriers and edge sub carriers . In accordance with some examples the inbound sub carriers and edge sub carriers can be diverted to different equalizer detector modules not depicted . In certain examples an equalization process may not be applied to the inbound sub carriers the edge sub carriers or both of them such as examples where ICI is eliminated by restricting data to alternating sub carriers.

The equalizer detector block can apply ICI coefficient information to remove the controlled ICI that can be introduced through the application of a tapered window before addition of the CP by the transmitter. As described above with respect to although the application of a tapered window before the application of a CP can free up sub carriers at the edges of an OFDM symbol for data transmission such windows can also spread energy from the transmission in one sub carrier into adjacent sub carriers. Therefore a channel matrix in the frequency domain which would otherwise be diagonal takes on off diagonal elements.

Each off diagonal element in the channel matrix can account for energy from an adjacent sub carrier to the sub carrier to which the diagonal element corresponds. For example since the Hann window increases the width of the main lobe by a factor of two energy from a given sub carrier can bleed into a sub carrier immediately to the left and a sub carrier immediately to the right of the given sub carrier. Hence what substantially would have been a diagonal matrix before the application of the Hann window can become a tri diagonal matrix.

The OFDM signal as received at the receiver and in the frequency domain after performance of a Fourier transform can be represented by the product of this channel matrix and a vector of modulated sub carriers from the transmitter to which Gaussian white noise can be added. Therefore the object of the equalizer detector block can simply be to remove impacts on the modulated sub carriers from the off diagonal elements from the channel matrix. In some examples this can be achieved by simply multiplying a vector of multiple recoverable sub carriers from the Fourier transform block by the inverse of a reconstructed version of the channel matrix at the equalizer detector block .

The off diagonal elements for a reconstructed version of a channel matrix can be supplied by one or more units of ICI coefficient information. As explained this ICI coefficient information can be known a priori by the transmitter and indexed to the given tapered window type applied by the transmitter. Therefore the transmitter can communicate the ICI coefficient information to the receiver to allow the receiver to apply the ICI coefficient information during equalization.

In embodiments consistent with the 3GPP LTE standards the ICI coefficient information can be communicated from an eNodeB to a UE over one of Layer 1 L1 Layer 2 L2 and Layer 3 signaling. L3 signalling can include Radio Resource Control RRC signaling. In certain examples the receiver can be pre configured to apply certain ICI coefficient information. In some such examples the ICI coefficient information to be applied by the receiver can be communicated to the transmitter so that the transmitter can select the corresponding tapered window to apply to its transmissions.

In some examples diagonal elements of the reconstructed version of the channel matrix can simply have unitary values. In certain examples these diagonal elements can be filled in with values obtained from channel estimation techniques such as the use of Reference Signals. Alternative approaches to equalization can also be used. For example time domain equalization approaches can be applied.

Once the vector of multiple recoverable sub carriers is multiplied by the inverse of the reconstructed version of the channel matrix at the equalizer detector block the parallel modulated sub carriers can be combined into a single output at a Parallel to Single converter . Additional information provided in band edge sub carriers of an OFDM symbol can pertain to a common communication link to which information in the inbound sub carriers pertains. However additional information provided in band edge sub carriers can pertain to a different communication link. Therefore band edge sub carriers can be bundled in distinct output by a Parallel to Single converter.

One or more communication links for a Device to Device D2D communication application and or a Machine to Machine M2M communication application can provide illustrative non limiting examples of such additional communication links that can be established in band edge sub carriers. OOB leakage can be controlled to free up band edge sub carriers for such communication links and or to augment information in a common communication link by approaches alternative to or combined with the application of a tapered window. For example OOB leakage can be controlled with sub carrier specific reductions in power as discussed below.

For example the span of sub carriers pertaining to the OFDM symbol can include a span of inbound sub carriers . The span of inbound sub carriers can correspond to sub carriers on which data can be transmitted under traditional approaches that employ guard bands to avoid OOB leakage. A central span within the inbound sub carriers can define a first span.

One or more transition spans can be disposed within the inbound span of sub carriers but can abut an inbound border at either a low end or a high end frequency of the inbound span. Therefore a transition span can flank the central span at frequencies immediately above or below those in the central span. Also abutting in some examples such as the one depicted in one or both inbound borders but on a side opposite a transition span one or more edge spans can be disposed.

An edge span can be disposed within and or occupy any region near an edge of a span of sub carriers for an OFDM symbol whether the edge is near an OOB region at the high end or the low end of the spectrum. In some examples an edge span can span a region or a portion thereof that would pertain to a guard band in traditional approaches to controlling OOB leakage. In some examples such as the one depicted in a portion of this traditional guard band region can be reserved for sub carriers with substantially zero transmission power. As can be appreciated by the one or more representative sub carriers in each sub span any number of sub carriers can be found in each of these sub spans.

Sub carriers within the central span can be transmitted at maximum powers within a first power range. One or more sub carriers in one or more transition spans can be transmitted at maximum powers within a second power range. The second transition power range as depicted in can be defined for powers lower than the first transition span. Since the second power range is lower than the first power range spectral leakage from sub carriers in the transition span will also be lower.

Since spectral leakage from sub carriers within one or more transition spans can be lower especially at OOB frequencies additional sub carriers near one or more OFDM symbol edge can become available to transmit data within a defined third power range. As with the relationship between the first two power ranges the third transition power range as depicted in can be defined for powers lower than the second transition span. Therefore spectral leakage from sub carriers in an edge span will be even lower and can similarly drop off to acceptable levels for OOB frequencies even though those frequencies can be even closer with respect to OOB frequencies and can combine with reduced spectral leakage from one or more transition spans 

The number of sub carriers in one or more transition spans and or one or more edge spans and or the corresponding second and third power ranges can be set to assure that OOB leakage does not exceed a permissibility threshold. In some examples one or more transition spans and or one or more edge spans can comprise multiple sub spans. In such examples the second power range and or the third power range can comprise multiple different sub power levels wherein different sub power levels can correspond to different sub spans. Power levels in certain examples can be assigned within one or more transition spans and or one or more edge spans so that a total power arrived at by integrating over all frequencies pertaining to the OFDM symbol remains substantially unchanged from an amount of power applied in a traditional OFDMA symbol.

As stated information provided in sub carriers of an edge span can pertain to a communication link shared with other sub carriers for example DownLink and or UpLink communications carried by sub carriers in the inbound sub carriers or can pertain to different communication links such as those for D2D and or M2M communication applications. Where one or more power levels are reduced for transmission of the additional information on edge sub carriers a distance of transmission can be an important factor in determining the reliability of the corresponding transmission. Therefore a transmission distance can be predetermined for such a power level. The transmission distance can be set at a distance that can insure a reduced transmission power for the additional information can meet communication standards of a given receiver for various potential channel qualities. When a given receiver is determined to be within the transmission distance information specific to the given receiver can be provisioned for inclusion in an edge span.

The windowing module can be configured to apply a tapering window to at least a portion of an OFDM symbol. The tapering window can be selected to reduce OOB spectral leakage. Such spectral leakage can be reduced in order to enable placement of information at the band edge of the OFDM symbol. The data module can be configured to provision the information to the OFDM symbol at the band edge. The transmission module can be configured to transmit the OFDM symbol with the additional information in the band edge after application of the tapering window.

For some examples the data module can provision the information that pertains to one or more communication links. Such communication links can comprise a link between an eNodeB and a UE and or between a first and second UE. In addition the data module can provision information that pertains to a communication link for a D2D communication application and or an M2M communication application. Additionally in some examples the windowing module can apply the tapering window over a windowing interval substantially equal to the inverse of a sub carrier bandwidth for a sub carrier within the OFDM symbol to preserve orthogonality between sub carriers. Additionally the windowing module can apply the tapering window to the at least a portion of the OFDM symbol after an Inverse Discrete Fourier Transform IDFT has been applied to data within the OFDM symbol but before a CP is added to the OFDM symbol.

In some examples the device can further comprise an equalization module. The equalization module can be configured to select ICI coefficient information corresponding to the tapering window applied at the transmitter. The ICI coefficient information can be known a priori for the tapering window selected. Additionally the equalization module can provision the ICI coefficient to the transmission module for transmission to a receiving device. The ICI coefficient information can be transmitted to enable the receiving device to equalize a signal associated with the OFDM symbol by removing ICI in adjacent sub carriers within the OFDM symbol.

Certain embodiments can further comprise an allocation module . The allocation module can be configured to increase a distance between sub carriers carrying data within the OFDM symbol. The distance can be increased by the allocation module by an amount to offset an increase in a first main lobe size corresponding to a frequency response of the tapering window relative to the first main lobe size corresponding to a frequency response of a rectangular window. The distance can be created by the allocation module by including a number of sub carriers not carrying data between sub carriers that can be allocated for carrying data.

The method can comprise transmitting from a transmitter data in an inbound span of sub carriers of an OFDM symbol at a first power range. The transmitter can be located in one of an eNodeB and a UE. The OFDM symbol can comprise at least the inbound span of sub carriers and at least one edge span of sub carriers. The inbound span can occupy a range of frequencies with a low frequency boundary and a high frequency boundary. The at least one edge span can occupy a range of frequencies that is at least one of adjacent to and below the low frequency boundary and adjacent to and above the high frequency boundary. The method can further comprise transmitting data in a portion of the at least one edge span at a second power range that is lower than the first power range of the inbound span. In some examples a remaining portion of the at least one edge span can receive substantially no transmission power.

Transmitting the data in the inbound span of sub carriers can further comprise determining for a given power level in the second power range a number of sub carriers in the at least one edge span to reduce OOB spectral leakage to be below a permissibility threshold. In some examples transmitting data in the inbound span of sub carriers can further comprise determining for a given number of sub carriers a power level in the second power range for the at least one edge span to reduce OOB spectral leakage to be below a permissibility threshold. In certain examples transmitting data in the portion of the at least one edge span can further comprise transmitting data in multiple sub spans at multiple different sub power levels. In such examples the second power range can comprise the multiple different sub power levels. Also the at least one edge span can comprise the multiple sub spans.

Some examples can further comprise transmitting data in at least one transition span of sub carriers at a low sub power range within the first power range that is higher than the second power range and lower than a high power range within the first power range of the inbound span. In such examples the inbound span can comprise a central span of sub carriers transmitted at the high sub power range and the at least one transition span of sub carriers transmitted at the low sub power range. The at least one transition span can occupy a range of frequencies that is below frequencies occupied by the central span and above the low frequency boundary. Additionally or in the alternative the at least one transition span can occupy a range of frequencies that is above the frequencies occupied by the central span and below the high frequency boundary.

Such examples can further comprise determining a number of sub carriers in the at least one transition span for a given power level within the low sub power range within the first power range to reduce spectral leakage from the inbound span into an OOB region not designated for the OFDM symbol below an acceptability threshold. Similarly such examples can further comprise determining a power level within the low sub power range within the first power range for a given number of sub carriers in the at least one transition span to reduce spectral leakage from the inbound span into an OOB region not designated for the OFDM symbol below an acceptability threshold. Furthermore transmitting data in the at least one transition span can further comprises transmitting data in multiple sub transition spans at multiple different sub power levels. In such examples the low sub power range of the first power range can comprise the multiple different sub power levels. Also the at least one transition span can comprise the multiple sub transition spans.

The method can further comprise assigning power levels within the at least one transition span and the at least one edge span. These power levels can be assigned so that a total power arrived at by integrating over all frequencies pertaining to the OFDM symbol remains substantially unchanged relative to a traditional scenario. The traditional scenario can obtain where transmission power is constant across the inbound span and no power is allocated to the at least one edge span. An additional condition can be imposed on the traditional scenario that a value of the transmission power for the scenario is determined by an existing legacy 3GPP LTE implementation as set forth in at least one of Release 8 Release 9 and Release 10.

Also the method can further comprise determining a transmission distance. The transmission distance can be set to insure that a reduced transmission power for the second power range for the at least one edge span of the OFDM symbol can meet communication standards of a given receiver for a distance below the transmission distance. Such examples can further comprise determining that the given receiver is located at a distance below the transmission distance. Additionally such examples can comprise provisioning information specific to the given receiver for inclusion in the at least one edge span of the OFDM symbol.

The method can comprise reducing spectral leakage from an inbound region of an OFDM signal into an OOB region not designated for the OFDM symbol. Additionally the method can comprise provisioning additional information to the band edge of the OFDM for transmission. The OFDM symbol can also be transmitted with the additional information in the band edge.

In some examples reducing spectral leakage can further comprise applying a tapering window to the OFDM symbol. Also in some examples reducing spectral leakage can further comprise reducing transmission power for a set of adjacent sub carriers within the OFDM symbol at an edge region within an inbound region of the OFDM symbol. In such examples the edge region can occupy frequencies adjacent to those occupied by the band edge. Similarly reducing spectral leakage can further comprise reducing transmission power for a set of adjacent sub carriers within the OFDM symbol at an edge region within an inbound region of the OFDM symbol. The edge region can occupy frequencies adjacent to those occupied by the band edge.

In certain examples the method can further comprise transmitting ICI coefficient information corresponding to the tapering window. The tapering window can be transmitted to enable a receiving device to equalize a signal associated with the OFDM symbol by removing ICI in adjacent sub carriers within the OFDM symbol by applying the ICI coefficient information. Also some examples can further comprise screening additional information to be provisioned to the band edge. The screening can be based on a distance over which the additional information is determined to be transmitted. The additional information can be selected for the band edge if the distance is less than a distance threshold set to insure communication of information in the band edge.

It should be understood that many of the functional units described in this specification have been labeled as modules in order to more particularly emphasize their implementation independence. For example a module may be implemented as a hardware circuit comprising custom VLSI circuits or gate arrays off the shelf semiconductors such as logic chips transistors or other discrete components. A module may also be implemented in programmable hardware devices such as field programmable gate arrays programmable array logic programmable logic devices or the like.

Modules may also be implemented in software for execution by various types of processors. An identified module of executable code may for instance comprise one or more physical or logical blocks of computer instructions which may for instance be organized as an object procedure or function. Nevertheless the executables of an identified module need not be physically located together but may comprise disparate instructions stored in different locations which when joined logically together comprise the module and achieve the stated purpose for the module.

Indeed a module of executable code may be a single instruction or many instructions and may even be distributed over several different code segments among different programs and across several memory devices. Similarly operational data may be identified and illustrated herein within modules and may be embodied in any suitable form and organized within any suitable type of data structure. The operational data may be collected as a single data set or may be distributed over different locations including over different storage devices and may exist at least partially merely as electronic signals on a system or network. The modules may be passive or active including agents operable to perform desired functions.

Various techniques or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives Solid State Drives SSD flash RAM or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the various techniques. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device may include a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. One or more programs that may implement or utilize the various techniques described herein may use an application programming interface API reusable controls and the like. Such programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s may be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and combined with hardware implementations.

Reference throughout this specification to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus appearances of the phrases in one embodiment or in an embodiment in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

As used herein a plurality of items structural elements compositional elements and or materials may be presented in a common list for convenience. However these lists should be construed as though each member of the list is individually identified as a separate and unique member. Thus no individual member of such list should be construed as a de facto equivalent of any other member of the same list solely based on their presentation in a common group without indications to the contrary. In addition various embodiments and example of the present invention may be referred to herein along with alternatives for the various components thereof. It is understood that such embodiments examples and alternatives are not to be construed as defacto equivalents of one another but are to be considered as separate and autonomous representations of the present invention.

Furthermore the described features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments. In the following description numerous specific details are provided such as examples of materials fasteners sizes lengths widths shapes etc. to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the invention. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that the invention can be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods components materials etc. In other instances well known structures materials or operations are not shown or described in detail to avoid obscuring aspects of the invention.

While the forgoing examples are illustrative of the principles of the present invention in one or more particular applications it will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that numerous modifications in form usage and details of implementation can be made without the exercise of inventive faculty and without departing from the principles and concepts of the invention. Accordingly it is not intended that the invention be limited except as by the claims set forth below.

