---

title: Method and system for distributed control of user privacy preferences
abstract: A system and method for managing user data preferences across multiple online sites and applications. A privacy center can be configured to include a user interface and an application programming interface (API). The user interface can be employed to set preferences for specific data types in order to handle the data types with a different level of privacy than other similar data type by the user. The API permits a plurality of sites to discover user's preferences, field names, and categories of data recognized by the site. The API adds new data fields to accommodate future changes in both technology and in legal restrictions on data usage. An address with respect to the API and the user interface along with a token can be entered when installing an application and the application downloads the preferences and applies them based on requirement.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09053327&OS=09053327&RS=09053327
owner: Xerox Corporation
number: 09053327
owner_city: Norwalk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130219
---
Embodiments are generally related to data processing systems. Embodiments are also related to social network enabled marketing business to business services and business to consumer services such as managing. Embodiments are additionally related to the distributed control of user privacy preferences.

The World Wide Web the web has transformed from a passive medium to an active medium where users take part in shaping the content they receive. One popular form of active content on the web is personalized content wherein a provider employs certain characteristics of a particular user such as their demographic or previous behaviors to filter select or otherwise modify the content ultimately presented. This transition to active content raises serious concerns about privacy as arbitrary personal private information may be required to enable personalized content and a confluence of factors has made it difficult for users to control where this information ends up and how it is utilized.

One area of privacy concern is social media and increasingly related social media applications and web sites. Social media generally involves a large number of users who interact socially with one another via the Internet and allows users to freely express and share opinions with other users via social networking applications. Social networking sites and mobile communication applications collect demographic information such as for example address age and income identifiers such as name credit card number social security number email address and photographs via a facial recognition software. In addition to these discrete data points many applications collect information regarding user behavior user support or like and user communication details. Such information is bought sold traded aggregated and analyzed for marketing and other purposes and also frequently leaked to unintended people and organizations.

As organizations businesses and companies expand services offerings through services common issues of privacy are also gaining prominence. For example many applications create a data analysis platform that can work with client s customer data and utilize social media type connections and reputation computations to facilitate business to business operations. The majority of prior art approaches for controlling user data privacy are complicated and confusing and may even change with little or no warning. Such approaches do not monitor each site with respect to changes in their privacy policies and settings and do not make adjustments to each site and each setting on a case by case basis. Additionally manual methods of maintaining privacy are time consuming and error prone. Unintended leakage of personal data to potentially unfriendly applications and users is therefore extremely difficult to prevent.

Based on the foregoing it is believed that a need exists for an improved system and method for managing user privacy across multiple online sites and applications and sharing data smoothly while maintaining security as will be described in greater detail herein.

The following summary is provided to facilitate an understanding of some of the innovative features unique to the disclosed embodiments and is not intended to be a full description. A full appreciation of the various aspects of the embodiments disclosed herein can be gained by taking the entire specification claims drawings and abstract as a whole.

It is therefore one aspect of the disclosed embodiments to provide for an improved data processing method and system.

It is another aspect of the disclosed embodiments to provide for improved methods and systems for social network enabled marketing business to business services and business to consumer services.

It is further aspect of the disclosed embodiments to provide for an improved method and system for managing user data across multiple online sites and applications and smoothly and securely sharing the data.

The aforementioned aspects and other objectives and advantages can now be achieved as described herein. A system and method for managing user data across multiple online sites and applications is disclosed herein. A privacy center can be configured to include a user interface and an API Application Programming Interface . The user interface can be employed to set preferences for specific data types in order to handle the data types with a different level of privacy than other similar data type by the user. The API permits one or more sites to discover a user s preferences field names and categories of data recognized by the site. The API adds new data fields to accommodate future changes in both technology and in legal restrictions on data usage. An address with respect to the API and the user interface along with a token can be entered when installing an application e.g. social application mobile application service site and the application downloads the preferences and applies them based on a requirement. Such an approach can provide consistency while increasing privacy by reducing opportunities for leakage and enabling sites to determine an appropriate security control required to satisfy a customer requirement or requirements .

The user interface can be presented as an integral component of a website and or as part of a standalone system. The interface presents the user with a list of types of private data and possible privacy settings. The specific data types are not associated preferences. The data types can be connected to normalized data type names and a list of generic data type names can be maintained. The data types can be linked to specific implementations to permit communication with different types of sites and languages associated with the site. The user sets preferences for different categories of data usage such as for example personal data fields behavioral data user comments photos and videos uploaded and items shared with other users. Each category includes a screen or menu tab on the user interface for configuring requirements and different types of settings than another category.

The web based API e.g. REST or SOAP allows the privacy preferences to be discoverable by other sites and applications via a number of different approaches. An all preferences service approach can return a list of key value pairs with each key being a field type name and a value being a privacy level the user set for that field. The field preference approach returns the privacy preference for the name of a data field e.g. primary email . The public fields approach returns a list of key value pairs for the given user in which the key is the field type name and the value is the actual data the user has designated for public consumption. The category preferences approach returns a list of key value pairs for the given category in which the key is the data type name and the value is the privacy level with regard to elements within the category.

The field names approach returns a list of key value pairs with each key being the name of a data field and the value being an array of aliases for that field. Optionally a field name can be supplied and a single key value pair that matches can be returned. An optional category name can restrict results to that particular category. The add field approach expects the field name. Other data that may be supplied include an alias that is known to be in the database.

Each API approach can be supplied with a unique user identifier. A token can be provided to each user either as a parameter or as part of the URL. The optional platform identifier e.g. such as Wordpress Contineo etc. can be provided so that the field name can be associated with that data type category to adapt to changing technologies and to accommodate changing needs of both businesses and users. The field name approach and the add field approach does not require the unique user identifier.

The particular values and configurations discussed in these non limiting examples can be varied and are cited merely to illustrate at least one embodiment and are not intended to limit the scope thereof.

The embodiments will now be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which illustrative embodiments of the invention are shown. The embodiments disclosed herein can be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout. As used herein the term and or includes any and all combinations of one or more of the associated listed items.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art the present invention can be embodied as a method data processing system or computer program product. Accordingly the present invention may take the form of an entire hardware embodiment an entire software embodiment or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects all generally referred to herein as a circuit or module. Furthermore the present invention may take the form of a computer program product on a computer usable storage medium having computer usable program code embodied in the medium. Any suitable computer readable medium may be utilized including hard disks USB Flash Drives DVDs CD ROMs optical storage devices magnetic storage devices etc.

Computer program code for carrying out operations of the present invention may be written in an object oriented programming language e.g. Java C etc. . The computer program code however for carrying out operations of the present invention may also be written in conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or in a visually oriented programming environment such as for example Visual Basic.

The program code may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to a user s computer through a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN wireless data network e.g. WiFi Wimax 802.xx and cellular network or the connection may be made to an external computer via most third party supported networks for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

The embodiments are described at least in part herein with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods systems and computer program products and data structures according to embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the illustrations and combinations of blocks can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable memory that can direct a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable memory produce an article of manufacture including instruction means which implement the function act specified in the block or blocks.

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer or other programmable apparatus to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide steps for implementing the functions acts specified in the block or blocks.

As illustrated in the disclosed embodiments may be implemented in the context of a data processing system that includes for example a system bus a processor e.g. a microprocessor and or other processing components a main memory an input output controller an input device e.g. a keyboard pointing device touchscreen interface etc. a display device and mass storage e.g. a hard disk . In some embodiments for example a USB peripheral connection not shown in and or other hardward components may also be in electrical communication with the system bus and components thereof. As illustrated the various components of data processing system can communicate electronically through the system bus or a similar architecture. The system bus may be for example a subsystem that transfers data between for example computer components within data processing system or to and from other data processing devices components computers etc.

The following discussion is intended to provide a brief general description of suitable computing environments in which the system and method may be implemented. Although not required the disclosed embodiments will be described in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a single computer. In most instances a module constitutes a software application.

Generally program modules include but are not limited to routines subroutines software applications programs objects components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types and instructions. Moreover those skilled in the art will appreciate that the disclosed method and system may be practiced with other computer system configurations such as for example hand held devices multi processor systems data networks microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics networked PCs minicomputers mainframe computers servers and the like.

Note that the term module as utilized herein may refer to a collection of routines and data structures that perform a particular task or implements a particular abstract data type. Modules may be composed of two parts an interface which lists the constants data types variable and routines that can be accessed by other modules or routines and an implementation which is typically private accessible only to that module and which includes source code that actually implements the routines in the module. The term module may also simply refer to an application such as a computer program designed to assist in the performance of a specific task such as word processing accounting inventory management etc.

The interface which is preferably a graphical user interface GUI also serves to display results whereupon the user may supply additional inputs or terminate the session. In an embodiment operating system and interface can be implemented in the context of a Windows system. It can be appreciated of course that other types of systems are possible. For example rather than a traditional Windows system other operation systems such as for example Linux may also be employed with respect to operating system and interface . The software application can include a user data privacy management module for managing user data. Software application on the other hand can include instructions such as the various operations described herein with respect to the various components and modules described herein such as for example the method depicted in .

Other devices that may communicate with network and hence the server the privacy center and social network website include for example a laptop computer a pad computing device a Smartphone and so forth. Note that although a single application or site is depicted in it can be appreciated that multiple sites can communicate and interact with the privacy center via the network e.g. the Internet along with client devices such as devices etc.

Note that the network may employ any network topology transmission medium or network protocol. The network may include connections such as wire wireless communication links or fiber optic cables. Network can also be an Internet representing a worldwide collection of networks and gateways that use the Transmission Control Protocol Internet Protocol TCP IP suite of protocols to communicate with one another. At the heart of the Internet is a backbone of high speed data communication lines between major nodes or host computers consisting of thousands of commercial government educational and other computer systems that route data and messages.

The user interface can be configured to set preferences for specific data types for special handling with a different level of privacy than other data of similar type by the user . For example the user might enter their work email address and associate it with a generic email type and specify it as having public or open visibility while all other emails are set to private. In this case email fields in general can still retain the user specified default setting e.g. private while instances of the work email address can be automatically set to public. The data types includes personal data fields such as name address and phone number behavioral data such as pages viewed items bought and connections with other users friend links comments that people make photos and videos uploaded and items shared with other users.

The user interface can be presented as an integral component of a website or as a part of a standalone system. The interface presents the user with a list of types of private data and possible privacy settings . For example as shown in the user interface includes common data fields such as name city street address email sex and phone number . In addition specific choices can made available to restrict access to this type of data. Note that the example shown in is oriented towards the data related to a particular user . The user interface may include additional fields and categories related to company information and the customer data that can be uploaded to the site for analysis. The data can be set to open personal privileged and private .

The specific data is not associated with the preferences. For example when the user sets the visibility of email to privileged the setting applies to any and all email addresses with exceptions noted below not to any specific one. The data can be easily extended to types not shown such as newsfeed and connections or friends . The privacy configuration unit connects known data types to normalized data type names. For example if a site contains a field for primary email and another has a field named email 1 the user can set a visibility preference for email in order for the privacy center to apply it to both sites. The privacy configuration unit may maintain a list of generic data type names on a database and also link data types to specific implementations. For example Wordpress blogs might refer to a login and an email address while all MediaWiki wikis might instead use user email and user name. The privacy configuration unit permits communication with different types of sites to be implemented in the language those sites understand.

The user interface provides users options for setting the preferences for the way these other categories of data may be used just as easily as they can set the privacy preferences for the personal data. New categories can thus easily be created to accommodate future changes in technology in business needs and in legal restrictions on data usage. For example each category may have its own screen or menu tab on the privacy center for working with its requirements and even slightly different types of settings than another category. For example in the personal data category there can be settings for whether data is allowed to be shared with friends and friends of friends whereas in the behavioral category it can be more appropriate to set a preference for whether data can be sold to third parties.

The API can be configured to permit a number of sites to discover user s preferences field names and categories of data recognized by the site. The web based API e.g. REST or SOAP includes a number of approaches. An all preference approach returns a list of key value pairs with each key being a field type name and the value being the privacy level the user has set for that field. A field preference approach returns the privacy preference for the given name of a data field e.g. primary email . A public fields returns a list which may be empty of key value pairs for the given user in which the key is the field type name and the value is the actual data the user has designated for public consumption such as a work email address . A category preferences returns a list of key value pairs in which the key is the data type name and the value is the privacy level with regard to elements within the category for given category name for example one of behavioral or posts and uploads .

Each method can be supplied with a unique user identifier. Each user can be provided with the token that supplied either as a parameter or as a part of the URL. Each method also accepts an optional platform identifier such as Wordpress or Contineo . The site responds by using field names that the platform understands if known. A field names approach and an add field approach does not require a user identifier. The field names approach returns a list of key value pairs with each key being the name of a data field such as email and the value being an array of aliases for that field primary email email address email 1 etc. . Optionally a field name can be supplied and the system can return a single key value pair as described above that matches.

An optional category name can restrict results to that particular category. The add field approach expects a field name. Other data that may be supplied include an alias that is known to be in the database. A platform identifier such as Wordpress or Contineo may also be supplied which can permit the site to associate that field name with that platform. An optional category may also be supplied so the field name can be associated with that data type category.

Initially as indicated at block the user interface can be configured to set preferences for specific data types for special handling with a different level of privacy than other data of similar type by the user . The API can be configured to permit a number of sites to discover user s preferences field names and categories of data recognized by the site as shown at block . The API adds new data fields to accommodate future changes in both technology and in legal restrictions on data usage as illustrated at block .

The address with respect to the API and the user interface along with the token can be entered when installing the application e.g. social application mobile application service site and the application downloads the preferences and applies them based on a requirement or requirements as indicated at blocks and . Such an approach provides consistency and increases privacy by reducing opportunities for leakage while also enabling sites to determine the appropriate security controls needed to satisfy customer needs.

The interface and API combine to form a powerful platform for easing the burden on both users and businesses of sharing information safely and comfortably. Entering a single URL rather than configuring preferences for each of possibly dozens of applications provides consistency and improves ease of use. The personal data collected can expand to be more like the extensive collection and aggregation prevalent on the web. For example social applications such as Facebook applications can also make use of the interface to discover information users are willing to share rather than requiring them to make those decisions again every time they consider using some new game or other application.

The privacy preferences can be configured with the services site such as Contineo Crowd Sourcing Scale Insight or Social Media Analytics by entering the address of the privacy center . The system share and respect privacy settings increase customer ease and satisfaction across the board. A sample code can also model the user interface of the privacy center . This type of code is especially useful for sites built on highly configurable and widely used technologies such as Drupal Wordpress and Mediawiki. Fully developed plug ins can permit services or business partners using a wide variety of technologies to be fully integrated into for example a privacy centers ecosystem.

The system improves the interaction between people and the web sites and applications with which they interact. The system invites privacy settings on various fields without inviting for data itself. This increases privacy by reducing opportunities for leakage while also enabling sites to determine the appropriate security controls needed to satisfy customer needs. System also promotes the abstraction of private data types and the movement of categories away from platform specific naming conventions and even away from specific pieces of data.

The system can be created on an ad hoc basis by each site and application for its own specific needs. The ability to add new fields and new aliases for old fields reinforces the abstraction and permits it to adapt to changing platforms services and technologies. The use of a web API allows discovery of privacy preferences without leakage of the data itself. This permits a level of interaction between sites and applications such as services sites e.g. also referred to simply as services that ease both the burden on users of monitoring their privacy while increasing increases their confidence in the services they use. The system sets a level of protection for user private data and discovers those preferences thereby improving the ability of services to protect a customer s information. The system improves the ability of different sites to share users and provide such users with a seamless comfortable and secure experience for related services such as a services marketplace.

Based on the foregoing it can be appreciated that a number of embodiments preferred and alternative are disclosed herein. For example in one embodiment a method can be implemented for managing data preferences. Such a method can include for example the steps or logical operations of designating a preference for a number of data types in order to handle the data types with a different level of privacy than other similar data types assembling an application programming interface to permit one or more sites to discover for example a user preference a field name and a category of data recognizable by sites and adding a new data field and or data thereof to accommodate changes with respect to a technology and a legal restriction on data usage to provide consistency and increase privacy by reducing an opportunity for leakage of privacy data thereof.

In another embodiment steps or logical operations can be implemented for entering an address with respect to the application programming interface and a user interface in association with a token when installing an application and downloading and applying the preference with respect to the application based on a requirement or requirements . In another embodiment a step or logical operation can be implemented for configuring the user interface as an integral component of a website and or as a part of a standalone system.

In still other embodiments steps or logical operations can be implemented for presenting a list of private data types and possible privacy settings via the user interface to thereafter connect the types to a normalized data type name and maintaining a list of generic data type names and linking the data types to specific implementations to permit communication with different types of sites and languages associated with the site.

In other embodiments the aforementioned specific data type is not associated with the preference. In some embodiments the data types can be for example a personal data field a behavioral data a user comment an uploaded photograph and video or a shared item. In still other embodiments a step or logical operation can be implemented for establishing a privacy preference discoverable by one or more sites and or applications utilizing different approaches by the application programming interface.

In other embodiments the aforementioned approaches can be for example an all preference approach that returns a list of key value pairs with each key being a field type name and a value being a privacy level set for the field a field preference approach that returns a privacy preference for name of a data field or a public field approach that returns the list of key value pairs in which the key is the field type name and the value is an actual data that has been designated for a public consumption.

In yet another embodiment a system for managing data preferences can be implemented. Such a system can include for example a processor a data bus coupled to the processor and a computer usable medium embodying computer program code the computer usable medium being coupled to the data bus. Such computer program code can include instructions executable by the processor and configured for example for designating a preference for a number of data types in order to handle the data types with a different level of privacy than other similar data types assembling an application programming interface to permit one or more sites to discover at least a user preference a field name and a category of data recognizable by the sites and adding new data field to accommodate changes with respect to a technology and a legal restriction on data usage to provide consistency and increase privacy by reducing an opportunity for leakage of privacy data thereof.

In still another embodiment such instructions can be further configured for entering an address with respect to the application programming interface and a user interface in association with a token when installing an application and downloading and applying the preference with respect to the application based on a requirement or requirements . Note that the aforementioned user interface can be configured in some embodiments as an integral component of a website and or as a part of a standalone system.

In still other embodiments such instructions can be further configured for presenting a list of private data types and possible privacy settings via the user interface to thereafter connect the data types to a normalized data type name and maintaining a list of generic data type names and linking the data types to specific implementations to permit communication with different types of sites and languages associated with the site. In still other embodiments such instructions can be further configure for establishing a privacy preference discoverable by one or more sites and applications utilizing a variety of approaches by the application programming interface.

In still another embodiment a processor readable medium storing computer code representing instructions to cause a process for managing data preferences can be provided. Such computer code can include code to for example designate a preference for one or more data types in order to handle the data types with a different level of privacy than other similar data types assemble an application programming interface to permit one or more sites to discover at least a user preference a field name and a category of data recognizable by the sites and add new data field to accommodate changes with respect to a technology and a legal restriction on data usage to provide consistency and increase privacy by reducing an opportunity for leakage of privacy data thereof.

In other embodiments such code can include code to enter an address with respect to the application programming interface and a user interface in association with a token when installing an application and download and apply the preference with respect to the application based on a requirement or requirements .

In another embodiment such code can include code to present a list of private data types and possible privacy settings via the user interface to thereafter connect the data types to a normalized data type name and maintain a list of generic data type names and linking the data types to specific implementations to permit communication with different types of sites and languages associated with the site.

It will be appreciated that variations of the above disclosed and other features and functions or alternatives thereof may be desirably combined into many other different systems or applications. Also that various presently unforeseen or unanticipated alternatives modifications variations or improvements therein may be subsequently made by those skilled in the art which are also intended to be encompassed by the following claims.

