---

title: Mechanism for facilitating user-controlled features relating to media content in multiple online media communities and networks
abstract: In accordance with embodiments, there are provided mechanisms and methods for facilitating playlist assistance and sharing of media content over multiple media communities according to one embodiment. In one embodiment and by way of example, a method includes receiving, at a first computing device, a request relating to media content. The request may be placed by a user at a second computing device. The method may further include researching a plurality of media playlists at a plurality of media communities for the media content, selecting one or more of the plurality of media playlists at one or more of the media communities having the media content, and transmitting, from the first computing to the second computing device, the one or more media playlists having the media content.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09225580&OS=09225580&RS=09225580
owner: 
number: 09225580
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20130227
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 605 090 entitled Playlist Assist software that displays every playlist that includes any particular selected track from a song library according to song artist or genre by Bradly Freeman Rich filed Feb. 29 2012 the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference and priority is claimed thereof.

A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material which is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent file or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever.

One or more implementations relate generally to data management and more specifically to a mechanism for facilitating user controlled features relating to media content in multiple online media communities and networks.

With the increase in use of mobile computing and cloud networking more and more individuals are using online media e.g. audio video media communities for storing and accessing their audio video files however the conventional systems are limited with regard to the control and ease they offer to their users when comes to organizing e.g. accessing searching etc. their audio video files.

In the following description numerous specific details are set forth. However embodiments as described herein may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known circuits structures and techniques have not been shown in details in order not to obscure the understanding of this description.

Methods and systems are provided for facilitating playlist assistance and sharing of media content over multiple media communities according to one embodiment. In one embodiment and by way of example a method includes receiving at a first computing device a request relating to media content. The request may be placed by a user at a second computing device. The method may further include researching a plurality of media playlists at a plurality of media communities for the media content selecting one or more of the plurality of media playlists at one or more of the media communities having the media content and transmitting from the first computing to the second computing device the one or more media playlists having the media content.

Embodiments facilitate user controlled performance of features relating to media content and media content files e.g. audio video files such as audio files video files audio video files etc. in multiple online media communities e.g. music communities video communities etc. over one or more networks e.g. Internet cloud network etc. . Media content or media files refer to and may include audio content video content or a combination thereof such as audio video files collectively referred to as media files or simply files . For example media files may include music files e.g. songs music videos lectures sports commentaries etc. film files e.g. movies silent movies lectures sports video or ballgames home videos etc. etc. In one embodiment features include playlist organization sharing of files etc. Playlist simply refers to a list of files such as a list of songs a list of movies etc. that can be created organized accessed and used by a user via computing device e.g. a mobile computing device whereas such playlists may be provided and administered by various organizations e.g. companies such as social network companies through their online audio video communities. For example and in one embodiment a mechanism facilitates playlist assistance that displays every playlist that includes any particular or selected file or track e.g. song movie show etc. from a library e.g. a song library movie library etc. according to a selected criteria e.g. by song by artist by genre etc. For example when a user forgets which songs are on which playlists in the song library today s conventional systems do not provide any technique for the user to know find that playlist without having to individually go through every single playlist in the library. In one embodiment the mechanism facilitates displaying all playlists that are associated with each file by content e.g. song movie lecture home movie documentary concert meeting notes minutes etc. artist e.g. singer actor producer director etc. genre e.g. rock country jazz comedy adventure drama reality etc. title e.g. album song etc. rating or rating related content e.g. PG 13 R violence etc. year of release e.g. July 1967 1998 99 2013 etc. etc.

For the sake of brevity clarity and ease of understanding this document focuses on music such as songs songs playlists online music communities etc. however it is to be noted that embodiments are not limited to music and that they are applicable to and workable with all forms of aforementioned files content playlists music communities etc.

Computing device may include server computers e.g. cloud server computers etc. desktop computers cluster based computers set top boxes e.g. Internet based cable television set top boxes etc. and the like. Computing device may also include smaller computers such as mobile computing devices such as cellular phones including smartphones e.g. iPhone by Apple BlackBerry by Research in Motion etc. handheld computing devices personal digital assistants PDAs etc. tablet computers e.g. iPad by Apple Galaxy by Samsung etc. laptop computers e.g. notebooks netbooks Ultrabook etc. e readers e.g. Kindle by Amazon.com Nook by Barnes and Nobles etc. Global Positioning System GPS based navigation systems etc.

Computing device includes an operating system OS serving as an interface between any hardware or physical resources of the computing device and a user. Computing device further includes one or more processors memory devices network devices drivers or the like as well as input output I O sources such as touchscreens touch panels touch pads virtual or regular keyboards virtual or regular mice etc. It is to be noted that terms like node computing node client client device server server device cloud computer cloud server cloud server computer machine host machine device computing device computer computing system multi tenant on demand data system and the like may be used interchangeably throughout this document. It is to be further noted that terms like application software application program software program package and software package may be used interchangeably throughout this document. It is to be noted that the use of certain terms such as Sonafire Playlist Assist sound board soundboard or the like should not be read to limit embodiments to software or devices that carry that label in products or in literature external to this document.

In one embodiment media mechanism provides a media library playlist assistant for media playlists e.g. songs playlists to locate identify and provide access to any particular type of user to songs and other types of media content in one or more media playlists in one or more media communities over one or more networks eliminating the traditional laborious method of manually going through each and every playlist to find the media content such as a song. In one embodiment media mechanism also provides an efficient media sharing technique such that media content may be shared between any number of users using any number and type of media communities over one or more networks . Examples of media communities or organizations e.g. social media networks products that provide media communities include but are not limited to Sonafire HipSet HotFile MySpace RapidShare SoundCloud Spotify Viveo YouTube Facebook etc.

It is contemplated that any number and type of components may be added to and or removed from media mechanism to facilitate various embodiments including adding removing and or enhancing certain features. For brevity clarity and ease of understanding of media mechanism many of the standard and or known components such as those of a computing device are not shown or discussed here. It is contemplated that embodiments are not limited to any particular technology topology system architecture and or standard and are dynamic enough to adopt and adapt to any future changes.

In some embodiments media mechanism may be in communication with database to store any type and amount of content including data metadata tables reports etc. relating to messaging queues etc. Media mechanism may be further in communication with any number and type of client computing devices such as client computing device over a network such as . Throughout this document the term logic may be interchangeably referred to as framework or component or module and may include by way of example software hardware and or any combination of software and hardware such as firmware. This combination of components provided through media mechanism facilitates user based control and manipulation of media content via software applications e.g. social websites business websites word processing spreadsheets database products etc. to be organized manipulated shared communicated and displayed in any number and type of ways as desired or necessitated by the user and communicated with the user through user interface at client computing device and over network .

It is contemplated that a user may include an administrative user or an end user. An administrative user may include an authorized and or trained user such as a system administrator a software developer a computer programmer etc. In contrast an end user may be any user that can access client computing device such as via software application e.g. Internet browser . In one embodiment a user via user interface at client computing device may manipulate or request media content as well as view the data and any related metadata in a particular format e.g. table spreadsheet etc. as desired or necessitated by the user. In one embodiment the user may listen to and or view the media content e.g. songs movies etc. using media player e.g. Windows media player by Microsoft QuickTime by Apple open source MPlayer etc. .

In one embodiment media mechanism may be employed at a server computing system such as computing device of and may be in communication with one or more client computing devices such as client computing device over a network such as network e.g. a cloud based network the Internet etc. . Client computing device may be the same as or similar to computing device of and include a mobile computing device e.g. smartphones tablet computers laptops etc. or larger computers e.g. desktop computers server computers etc. .

In one embodiment authentication logic may be used to authenticate users e.g. computing device users user requests e.g. finding playlists that contain a particular song etc. devices e.g. computing device etc. For example a user may be authenticated using a user account that the user may have created at some point to be able to access the system to benefit from media mechanism such as the user may be asked to provide one or more of a userID a username a password a passcode etc. Similarly in one embodiment the user s computing device may be authenticated and in some embodiments each user request may also be authenticated. It is contemplated that in one embodiment the authentication process may be a one time process conducted when for example computing device is first allowed to access media mechanism or in another embodiment authentication may be a recurring process that is performed each time a user request is received at or detected by reception detection logic at media mechanism being hosted at a server computing device such as host machine of via network .

In one embodiment communication compatibility logic may be used to provide communication and compatibility with and between various computing devices such as a server computing system hosting media mechanism and any number and type of client computing systems such as computing device . Communication compatibility logic may further provide communication and compatibility with and between various media players media communities networks etc. In one embodiment reception detection logic may be used to receive or detect user requests. Once a request has been placed it may be evaluated for its content by evaluation logic . For example once the request is placed evaluation logic determines the content and the nature of the request such as whether the user is requested a song or an artist or a genre etc. The evaluation results may then be provided to research logic to perform a research of any number of media playlist and in some embodiments a number of user accounts on various media communities and or social media websites to determine which media playlists contain the song artist and or genre requested by the user. Any research results e.g. media playlists social media accounts etc. are then provided to sort preference logic .

In one embodiment upon receiving the research results sort preference logic sorts through the research results in accordance with user defined preferences or in the absence of the user defined preferences according to an already user defined or system defined default pattern. For example if the user selects a song all playlists having the requested song may be sorted by playlist names e.g. this may be the defined pattern . If however for example the user chooses another sort pattern such as by playlist creation date by playlist access date by relevance etc. sort preference logic sorts the results in accordance with the user preference sort pattern. The sorted results are forwarded on to presentation logic to present the results to the user. For example and in one embodiment presentation logic may provide the sorted results to media player where the user can and play the various media playlists. It is contemplated that media player may be seen using a display screen device couple that may part of computing device e.g. smartphone screen tablet computer screen etc. or a separate display screen device may be connected to computing device . The displayed or presented playlists may then be available to the user for choosing selecting playing moving deleting shuffling and the like. It is contemplated that although a song is used as an example for brevity and clarity embodiments are not limited to it and that the user may request an artist a genre etc. or a different sort of media content such as a movie a lecture a presentation a home movie etc.

Modification logic is provided to facilitate any changes the user may choose to make to the media content e.g. songs etc. once receiving the results through media player . For example using user interface or through a menu provided by media player the user may choose to simply select and play the song delete the song from one or more media playlists move the song from one media playlist to another media playlist adding the song to another media playlist shuffling one or more playlists etc. Modification logic may recognize and facilitate any number and type of such modification requests. Furthermore in one embodiment sharing logic may be employed by media mechanism to share the media content with other users e.g. friends family strangers etc. by posting the media content e.g. via a social media website such as Facebook etc. or sending the media content e.g. via email text etc. to others. Sharing logic may provide an efficient legal and progressive manner of sharing where the user and the media content are both full protected in sharing any number and type of media content over any number and type of media communities over any number and type of networks. Further database is provided to store any information including data and metadata relating to and including media playlists and any relevant metadata to be accessed and used as necessitated.

For example on the client side using client computing device a song is selected to play by a user using user interface be present on the screen. Upon selection of the song a list of user s playlists that include the selected song being listened to may be displayed to the user via media player . Now for example if artist is selected by the user then a list of the user s playlists that include all songs by the selected artist of the song being listened to is provided to the user via media player . Now if genre is selected then a list of the user s playlists including the genre of the particular song being listened to will appears for the user via media player . Now if the user chooses to modify the results by choosing to shuffle then all songs from the list of playlists may shuffle. If one of the individual playlists is selected then the songs from that particular playlist will be shown. Any of those songs can be selected to play or the shuffle playlist option can be selected which will shuffle only the songs from that playlist.

Each user request may bring about a new set of selections for the user. For example if any given song is being played by the user and the user wishes to see what playlists have been customized to include that song artist or genre etc. the user may access those lists using the software which is accessible directly through any given song. Once all of the playlists associated with that song appear it may then be the user s choice whether to access one of the playlists shuffle all of the songs from each of the playlists edit a specific playlist or go back to the original song etc. In one embodiment all of these processes or tasks may be accomplished without having to stop or pause the song such as even if the song was being played before accessing media mechanism . If a playlist is selected a link to that playlist may be generated and any song can be selected within that playlist for playing or even for determining which playlists that particular song is on. This technique provides full accessibility to all of the user s playlists through a song search. Further this includes but is not limited to any screenshot from which a song is played the entire library of songs or through a specific song search etc.

Reception detection logic may receive and recognize the media content such as song tracks in each playlist by for example track name artist and genre etc. and compile a list of playlists according to each particular song and where each track is included. If a song is selected then there may be a gateway to a list of all of those associated playlists. If any of the playlists are selected then there will be a gate or a link to that particular playlist s songs and if shuffle all playlists is selected then all of those songs may be accessed as one larger compiled temporary playlist.

In one embodiment each process may be reversible such as a may have the choice of going back after each and any decision by simply clicking for example a back button. Further various elements may be shuffled in such a way where new playlists may be created or accessed in a different method or displayed with the media content such as a song. Further any media content and the corresponding playlists may be cataloged to create a separate archive or access point.

In one embodiment media mechanism further provides audio recognition based sharing via research logic and or sharing logic to allow the user to activate for example software application via media player to recognize any particular media content file e.g. song movie etc. being listened to through an third party listening device e.g. external speaker etc. or any other form of device or the like that produces audible sound or vibrations. For example and in one embodiment without needing to permanently download that particular media content file research logic and or sharing logic facilitate the audio recognition based sharing feature of media mechanism that checks various libraries e.g. audio file library video file library etc. various cloud audio video media providers and any number and type of third party partner sites etc. for that particular song. Once the media content file e.g. song movie etc. is found identified and or realized presentation logic presents the user any number of options such as to play the media content file via media player share the media content file share the news of the user playing the media content file purchase the media content file from any number and type of music vendors e.g. iTunes etc. and or interface that particular file within the same home website e.g. Sonafire etc. or any number and type of third party websites e.g. Spotify Pandora YouTube etc. .

In some embodiments presentation logic may further facilitate a notification service e.g. a news feed via user interface e.g. a popup an email a text a sound message etc. that may dynamically indicate any amount of details e.g. name year of release when requested etc. regarding media content files e.g. songs audio files movies videos albums genres etc. that are being or have been accessed shared viewed played etc. the most or highest number of times high traffic or trending upward and or the least or lowest number of times low traffic or trending downward at the moment or time that particular aspect e.g. list such as playlist sub playlist to one or more playlists is being viewed. For example if a user takes an action and or there is an occurrence of an even in or relating to any or each category e.g. type of media content files etc. the corresponding list e.g. playlist sub playlist may automatically update change sort and or group to indicate which media content files are being accessed shared viewed and or played the most and or the least. This technique provides the user with an up to date current list e.g. playlist sub playlist to one or more playlists for viewing along with having the opportunity to know and access the high traffic files trending files low traffic files etc. in a separate list such as a sub playlist according to the number of times the users on the home or third party website media community have accessed shared viewed play etc. or used in anyway each individual file such as a song a movie any other audio video file an album a genre etc.

Communication configuration logic may facilitate the ability to dynamically communicate and stay configured with various media content files media players media communities etc. Communication configuration logic further facilitates the ability to dynamically communicate and stay configured with various computing devices e.g. mobile computing devices such as various types of smartphones tablet computers laptops etc. networks e.g. Internet cloud computing network etc. websites such as media community and or social networking websites e.g. Facebook LinkedIn Google etc. etc. while ensuring compatibility with changing technologies parameters protocols standards etc.

It is contemplated that any number and type of components may be added to and or removed from media mechanism to facilitate various embodiments including adding removing and or enhancing certain features. For brevity clarity and ease of understanding of the media mechanism many of the standard and or known components such as those of a computing device are not shown or discussed here. It is contemplated that embodiments as described herein are not limited to any particular technology topology system architecture and or standard and are dynamic enough to adopt and adapt to any future changes.

Method begins at block with receiving a user request from a user for media content e.g. song artist genre etc. that the user may review or play e.g. play a song at a client computing device via a display screen of a media player. Further in one embodiment a software application may be part of or associated with the media player providing a user interface for the user to place the request cancel an already placed request modify results etc. At block the user request is processed or evaluated for its content such as which media content is being played or requested by user a result format or preference requested by the user etc. For example the user may prefer to have the results provided in an alphabetical order of the names of the playlists containing the requested media content such as a song.

At block a research of various media communities user accounts databases etc. is performed to seek for example media playlists containing the requested song. At block results e.g. media playlists of the user request are obtained e.g. all media playlists including the requested media are obtained and sorted according to the preference e.g. user defined preference set forth in the user request. At block the results are transmitted and presented to the user at the client computing device in accordance with the user preference based sorting e.g. all media playlists having the requested song are provided by alphabetical order etc. where the results may be displayed using the media player and a display screen associated with the client computing device. Further the results may be shared e.g. by posting emailing messaging etc. by the user with other users.

Moreover in one embodiment any number of requests may be received from the user and these request may request modification to the results such as reverse the alphabetical order switch from alphabetical order to another format e.g. by user account by date by relevance etc. delete any media content from the playlists add media content to the playlists make other miscellaneous changes to the playlists etc. In response to such a request necessary and appropriate modifications may be made to the results and the modified results may be retransmitted to the client computing device for the user to review view share and make any other modifications.

Transaction sequence begins with a user request received at a server computing device hosting media mechanism of where the user request is received from a user via client computing device having a media player associated with a software application offering a user interface of . The user request may for media content e.g. song artist genre etc. that the user may wish to review or play e.g. play a song at a client computing device via a display screen of a media player. Further in one embodiment a software application may be part of or associated with the media player providing a user interface for the user to place the request cancel an already placed request modify results etc. The user request is then processed or evaluated for its content such as which media content is being played or requested by user a result format or preference requested by the user etc. For example the user may prefer to have the results provided in an alphabetical order of the names of the playlists containing the requested media content such as a song.

Upon completing the evaluation a research of various media communities user accounts databases etc. is performed to seek for example media playlists containing the requested song. The results of the user request are obtained e.g. all media playlists including the requested media are obtained and sorted according to the preference set forth in the user request. The sorted results are then transmitted and presented to the user at the client computing device in accordance with the user preference based sorting e.g. all media playlists having the requested song are provided by alphabetical order etc. where the results may be displayed using the media player and a display screen associated with the client computing device. Further the results may be shared e.g. by posting emailing etc. by the user with other users.

Moreover in one embodiment any number of requests may be received from the user and these request may request modification to the results such as reverse the alphabetical order switch from alphabetical order to another format e.g. by user account by date by relevance etc. delete any media content from the playlists add media content to the playlists make other miscellaneous changes to the playlists etc. In response to such a request necessary and appropriate modifications may be made to the results and the modified results may be retransmitted to the client computing device for the user to review view share and make any other modifications .

Referring now to it illustrates an embodiment of a registration page for a user to register for the product to fully take advantage of the various features e.g. playlist assistance sharing of media content etc. provided by media mechanism of . In one embodiment a user may register by providing certain basic information by filling out a form seeking that information such as first name last name username email address password confirmation of password etc. and then simply clicking register . In another embodiment the user may choose to register through an existing online account such as connection with Twitter connect with Facebook etc. In yet another embodiment the user may choose to register via telephone or email or simply to seek help by clicking contact us . Once the user is registered through the registration page the user is then taken to or anytime thereafter when the user wishes to access the services an embodiment of a welcome page of . Welcome page provides a user login window for the user to login using the previously created username and password. For help the user may choose click contact us to call and or email for help.

Now referring to it illustrates an embodiment of a soundboard page to provide the user specific soundboard such as my soundboard or my sound board . My sound board may list user activities with regard to media content such as sharing or posting a song etc. My sound board may further list the names of one or more media communities that may be used by the user for various activities such as sharing media content posting media content requesting media content etc.

Referring now to it illustrates an embodiment of a toolbar page to provide an embodiment of a toolbar partitioned into various segments such as messages e.g. email etc. music e.g. songs requested songs shared etc. media e.g. media player media community etc. etc. for the user to choose and perform any number of tasks facilitated by media mechanism of . illustrates another embodiment of a toolbar providing a media section a browse section which the user can use to browse various activities relating to other users the user s friends artists favorite artists etc. and other sections such as user preferences information about the company about us link to friends on various online accounts e.g. link to Facebook friends link to Twitter friends etc. an option of logging out etc.

Now referring to it illustrates an embodiment of a top portion of a webpage or website of a service provider e.g. Sonafire the owner of media mechanism of to allow the user various types of information and any number of options such the user may obtain information by simply clicking menu including friends media new share etc. home to go to home page share songs to share songs my account to access the user account logout to logout of the account request song to request a song send message to send a message e.g. email recently played songs to open a list of recently played songs recently shared songs to open a list of recently shared songs etc. illustrates an embodiment of a bottom portion of a service provider website webpage providing additional options such as a list friends a list of all time favorite media content new songs newly released or added songs etc. and a sound wall etc. to have an open forum for other users friends and to the user to post comments etc.

It is contemplated that the aforementioned screenshots are merely provided as examples and that embodiments are not limited to any particular format color design options etc. Further in some embodiments users may be provided various tools and options to customize their account webpages such as a user may limit those who can view the comments posted via the sound wall .

Referring now to it illustrates a transaction sequence for facilitating playlist assistance and sharing of media content over multiple media communities using media mechanism of according to one embodiment. Transaction sequence includes a transaction relating to joining a music community according to one embodiment where server computer hosts media mechanism of . In one embodiment a user joins a music community at client computer e.g. mobile computing device such as a smartphone tablet computer etc. and subsequently places a request such as for a song a movie an artist a genre etc. with server computer is in communication with client computer . The request is received at server computer and further at server the request is reviewed and fulfilled . Upon login or placing the request the user may be provided a particular response page such as a welcome page. The user may use the welcome page to sign in and if necessary register or join through other forms such as Google store etc. Further the user may fill out the form provided through the welcome page with the user s basic personal information such as name age sex location etc. The user may further choose to download a software application on their client computer .

Further the user inputted information is transmitted over to server computer for validation and if the user information is validated and determined to be correct the user may be presented with a user profile page the user s client computer . The user may choose to provide or enter any one or more of user identification userID a user email a password and a passcode etc. and the user may then be presented with additional information such as basic categories social networks synchronization information etc. With the downloaded mobile software application at client computer the user may place and send the request using the mobile software application while server computer allows the user to connect to a chosen website using the downloaded application. At server computer the user information is read and validated and acknowledged as well as the user request is acknowledged . It is contemplated that the downloaded mobile software application may be obtained or downloaded via any one or more manners such as a website an email a pop up window etc. It is further contemplated that there may not be a need for a software application or that the software application may not have to be downloaded and that its various features and tools e.g. user interface e.g. user interface of menus tool bars etc. may be accessed and used over a cloud network such as network of .

In one embodiment using the available tool bars and their options via the user interface the user may place a request that is then sent to server computer . As further illustrated one or more tool bars as facilitated by server computer having media mechanism of may be displayed at client computer and further on the server side the user s request is acknowledged . The user may be provided any number and type of selections at client computer where the user makes a selection using these features and sends the relevant information to server computer . Some of these selections and the relevant information include but are not limited to profile page soundboard audio video library message inbox outbox etc. On the server side the user selections are acknowledged such as the user s profile page is identified etc.

In one embodiment user changes are communicated from client computer to server computer which then reflects the changes on through the user profile . For example the user uploads media content using a media library etc. along with any other requested changes and further the user accesses and play the requested media content e.g. listen to a song etc. where the display may automatically change to the most recently played media contents and or playlists . Further the user may continue to send receive share request message or the like while in response server computer updates the relevant information such as update the user s my activities . Some of these tasks include but are not limited to message or share appears on a list activity sheet message or share or sent an updated activity list and the like . The user may select a media content file e.g. select a song that is communicated to server computer and the selected media content file is then shared with selected friends . On the server side the receipt of the selected media content file is realized and identified . The user adds friends and makes the share or conducts a request and any activity amount is adjusted accordingly . On the server side such occurrences are realized recognized and any relevant information is processed .

Further at sever computer any changes proposed by the user to the user profile via client computer are acknowledged and these requested changes are processes uploaded and shown in showcase playlists such as a song an artist and or a genre relating to the selected media content file e.g. song may be identified and listed .

Continuing with transaction sequence a share a request or a public message may take place which is then modified by the user s soundboard . Transaction sequence continues with various processes such as selection of a media content file e.g. selecting a song for listening etc. and in turn the requested or selected media content file e.g. song is provided to the user to play etc. as listed in . On the server side media mechanism of at server computer receives the information from the user via client computer over a network e.g. network of and determines what users are friends and which is simply following for example an artist . Further on server side additional operations are performed such as the requested media content file e.g. song is recognized and identified from one or more media libraries which may be available through a local database or over a cloud network the identified media content file is synchronized with the user s various online accounts e.g. Facebook etc. and such and the user request is received the requested media content is identified and filtered into a selected service website etc.

In one embodiment any file sharing information is accessed and sent to server computer where the individual user s virtual auto dynamic playlists are updated and any trending levels for played and or shared the requested media content files such as songs artists etc. are updated . Server computer receives the information and sorts it based on various factors such as by popularity to determine the level of use or importance etc. such as most least shared most least played etc. for all media content files such as songs movies lectures artists genres and the like .

In one embodiment a user selects using a user interface provided by a software application at client computer a type of media content e.g. a song for play and that request is communicated to server computer where the request is received and the requested media content is identified selected and provided to and then played for the user using a media player at client computer . The user may attempt or login to access media playlists profile page and any other menus and tools via a website or user interface provided through the media player at client computer . The user attempt or login may be communicated as a request to server computer where the request is processed and the resulting access is provided to the user .

At client computer the user may choose to access manipulate and use the various menus options etc. provided through the software application and user interface built into the media player to perform various operations or selection options such as play songs etc. Further the user may have an option to access and play or shuffle or show any of the displayed playlists and perform any other operations relating to the media content such as listen play pause forward rewind etc. the media content e.g. song . The selections of options as set forth in is sent to server computer where the selection is acknowledged and any relevant playlists are found and sorted according to the request and then communicated back client computer where they are displayed in accordance with the user selection. The user may choose to perform various operations with the content media such as play pause forward etc. a song or other media content . A corresponding request is generated and sent to server computer where the appropriate playlists are received acknowledged and processed and once the request is met an appropriate action is triggered such as playing the song at client computer .

Referring now to illustrates a diagrammatic representation of a machine in the exemplary form of a computer system in accordance with one embodiment within which a set of instructions for causing the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies discussed herein may be executed. Machine is the same as or similar to computing device and computing device of and respectively. In alternative embodiments the machine may be connected e.g. networked to other machines in a network such as host machine of connected with client machine over network of such as a cloud based network a Local Area Network LAN a Wide Area Network WAN a Metropolitan Area Network MAN a Personal Area Network PAN an intranet an extranet or the Internet. The machine may operate in the capacity of a server or a client machine in a client server network environment or as a peer machine in a peer to peer or distributed network environment or as a server or series of servers within an on demand service environment including an on demand environment providing multi tenant database storage services. Certain embodiments of the machine may be in the form of a personal computer PC a tablet PC a set top box STB a Personal Digital Assistant PDA a cellular telephone a web appliance a server a network router switch or bridge computing system or any machine capable of executing a set of instructions sequential or otherwise that specify actions to be taken by that machine. Further while only a single machine is illustrated the term machine shall also be taken to include any collection of machines e.g. computers that individually or jointly execute a set or multiple sets of instructions to perform any one or more of the methodologies discussed herein.

The exemplary computer system includes one or more processors a main memory e.g. read only memory ROM flash memory dynamic random access memory DRAM such as synchronous DRAM SDRAM or Rambus DRAM RDRAM etc. static memory such as flash memory static random access memory SRAM volatile but high data rate RAM etc. and a secondary memory e.g. a persistent storage device including hard disk drives and persistent multi tenant data base implementations which communicate with each other via a bus . Main memory includes instructions such as software on which is stored one or more sets of instructions embodying any one or more of the methodologies or functions of mechanism as described with reference to and other figures described herein which operate in conjunction with processing logic and processor to perform the methodologies discussed herein.

Processor represents one or more general purpose processing devices such as a microprocessor central processing unit or the like. More particularly the processor may be a complex instruction set computing CISC microprocessor reduced instruction set computing RISC microprocessor very long instruction word VLIW microprocessor processor implementing other instruction sets or processors implementing a combination of instruction sets. Processor may also be one or more special purpose processing devices such as an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA a digital signal processor DSP network processor or the like. Processor is configured to execute the processing logic for performing the operations and functionality of mechanism as described with reference to and other figures discussed herein.

The computer system may further include a network interface device such as a network interface card NIC . The computer system also may include a user interface such as a video display unit a liquid crystal display LCD or a cathode ray tube CRT an alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard a cursor control device e.g. a mouse a signal generation device e.g. an integrated speaker and other devices like cameras microphones integrated speakers etc. The computer system may further include peripheral device e.g. wireless or wired communication devices memory devices storage devices audio processing devices video processing devices display devices etc. . The computer system may further include a hardware based application programming interface logging framework capable of executing incoming requests for services and emitting execution data responsive to the fulfillment of such incoming requests.

Network interface device may also include for example a wired network interface to communicate with remote devices via network cable which may be for example an Ethernet cable a coaxial cable a fiber optic cable a serial cable a parallel cable etc. Network interface device may provide access to a LAN for example by conforming to IEEE 802.11b and or IEEE 802.11g standards and or the wireless network interface may provide access to a personal area network for example by conforming to Bluetooth standards. Other wireless network interfaces and or protocols including previous and subsequent versions of the standards may also be supported. In addition to or instead of communication via the wireless LAN standards network interface device may provide wireless communication using for example Time Division Multiple Access TDMA protocols Global Systems for Mobile Communications GSM protocols Code Division Multiple Access CDMA protocols and or any other type of wireless communications protocols.

The secondary memory may include a machine readable storage medium or more specifically a machine accessible storage medium on which is stored one or more sets of instructions e.g. software embodying any one or more of the methodologies or functions of mechanism as described with reference to and other figures described herein. The software may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory such as instructions and or within the processor during execution thereof by the computer system the main memory and the processor also constituting machine readable storage media. The software may further be transmitted or received over a network via the network interface card . Network may be the same as network of . The machine readable storage medium may include transitory or non transitory machine readable storage media.

Portions of various embodiments may be provided as a computer program product which may include a computer readable medium having stored thereon computer program instructions which may be used to program a computer or other electronic devices to perform a process according to the embodiments. The machine readable medium may include but is not limited to floppy diskettes optical disks compact disk read only memory CD ROM and magneto optical disks ROM RAM erasable programmable read only memory EPROM electrically EPROM EEPROM magnet or optical cards flash memory or other type of media machine readable medium suitable for storing electronic instructions.

Modules relating to and or include components and other features described herein for example in relation to media mechanism of can be implemented as discrete hardware components or integrated in the functionality of hardware components such as ASICS FPGAs DSPs or similar devices. In addition modules can be implemented as firmware or functional circuitry within hardware devices. Further modules can be implemented in any combination hardware devices and software components.

The techniques shown in the figures can be implemented using code and data stored and executed on one or more electronic devices e.g. an end station a network element . Such electronic devices store and communicate internally and or with other electronic devices over a network code and data using computer readable media such as non transitory computer readable storage media e.g. magnetic disks optical disks random access memory read only memory flash memory devices phase change memory and transitory computer readable transmission media e.g. electrical optical acoustical or other form of propagated signals such as carrier waves infrared signals digital signals . In addition such electronic devices typically include a set of one or more processors coupled to one or more other components such as one or more storage devices non transitory machine readable storage media user input output devices e.g. a keyboard a touchscreen and or a display and network connections. The coupling of the set of processors and other components is typically through one or more busses and bridges also termed as bus controllers . Thus the storage device of a given electronic device typically stores code and or data for execution on the set of one or more processors of that electronic device. Of course one or more parts of an embodiment may be implemented using different combinations of software firmware and or hardware.

Any of the above embodiments may be used alone or together with one another in any combination. Embodiments encompassed within this specification may also include embodiments that are only partially mentioned or alluded to or are not mentioned or alluded to at all in this brief summary or in the abstract. Although various embodiments may have been motivated by various deficiencies with the prior art which may be discussed or alluded to in one or more places in the specification the embodiments do not necessarily address any of these deficiencies. In other words different embodiments may address different deficiencies that may be discussed in the specification. Some embodiments may only partially address some deficiencies or just one deficiency that may be discussed in the specification and some embodiments may not address any of these deficiencies.

The following clauses and or examples pertain to further embodiments or examples. Specifics in the examples may be used anywhere in one or more embodiments. The various features of the different embodiments or examples may be variously combined with some features included and others excluded to suit a variety of different applications. Some embodiments pertain to a method comprising receiving at a first computing device a request relating to media content wherein the request is placed by a user at a second computing device researching a plurality of media playlists at a plurality of media communities for the media content selecting one or more of the plurality of media playlists at one or more of the media communities having the media content and transmitting from the first computing to the second computing device the one or more media playlists having the media content.

Embodiments or examples include any of the above methods further comprising evaluating the request to determine its content including the media content or user preference relating to sorting the selected one or more media playlists.

Embodiments or examples include any of the above methods further comprising sorting the selected one or more media playlists according to the user preference.

Embodiments or examples include any of the above methods further comprising sharing the media content and other media content of the one or more media playlists with one or more users using one or more of the plurality of media communities over a network wherein sharing is performed using one or more of emailing texting and posting at one or more of a website a network website and a music community website.

Embodiments or examples include any of the above methods further comprising displaying the one or more media playlist using a display device coupled to the second computing device and playing the media content and other media content of the one or more media playlists using a media player of the second computing device.

Embodiments or examples include any of the above methods wherein the request is placed via a user interface that is provided by a software application at the second computing device the software application comprising one or more of the media player a media community website and a social networking website wherein the second computing device includes a client computing device coupled to the first computing device over the network.

Embodiments or examples include any of the above methods wherein the network comprises one or more of a cloud based network a Local Area Network LAN a Wide Area Network WAN a Metropolitan Area Network MAN a Personal Area Network PAN an intranet an extranet or the Internet.

In another embodiment or example an apparatus comprises means for performing any of the methods mentioned above.

In yet another embodiment or example at least one machine readable storage medium comprising a plurality of instructions that in response to being executed on a computing device causes the computing device to carry out a method according to any of the methods mentioned above.

In yet another embodiment or example at least one non transitory or tangible machine readable storage medium comprising a plurality of instructions that in response to being executed on a computing device causes the computing device to carry out a method according to any of the methods mentioned above.

In yet another embodiment or example a computing device arranged to perform a method according to any of the methods mentioned above.

Some embodiments pertain to a system comprising a computing device having a memory to store instructions and a processing device to execute the instructions the computing device further having a mechanism to receive at a first computing device a request relating to media content wherein the request is placed by a user at a second computing device research a plurality of media playlists at a plurality of media communities for the media content select one or more of the plurality of media playlists at one or more of the media communities having the media content and transmit from the first computing to the second computing device the one or more media playlists having the media content.

Embodiments or examples include any of the above system wherein the mechanism is further to evaluate the request to determine its content including the media content or user preference relating to sorting the selected one or more media playlists.

Embodiments or examples include any of the above system wherein the mechanism is further to sort the selected one or more media playlists according to the user preference.

Embodiments or examples include any of the above system wherein the mechanism is further to share the media content and other media content of the one or more media playlists with one or more users using one or more of the plurality of media communities over a network wherein sharing is performed using one or more of emailing texting and posting at one or more of a website a network website and a music community website.

Embodiments or examples include any of the above system wherein the mechanism is further to display the one or more media playlist using a display device coupled to the second computing device and playing the media content and other media content of the one or more media playlists using a media player of the second computing device.

Embodiments or examples include any of the above system wherein the request is placed via a user interface that is provided by a software application at the second computing device the software application comprising one or more of the media player a media community website and a social networking website wherein the second computing device includes a client computing device coupled to the first computing device over the network.

Another embodiment or example of the functionality included is audio recognition based sharing. This allows the user to activate software that will recognize any particular song file movie being listened to through a third party external speaker listening device anything that produces audible sound or vibrations. Without needing to permanently download that particular file the audio recognition based mechanism checks the audio video file Library various cloud audio video media providers and assorted third party partner websites etc. for that particular song. Once the media content file e.g. song etc. is realized the user is presented with options to play the media content file e.g. listen to the song via the media player on the device share that particular file share the news of the user listening to it purchase the file from any particular vendor iTunes etc. and or interface that particular file with third party websites Spotify Pandora etc. .

An embodiment of the service is to provide an interface function and or news feed that dynamically indicates what files such as songs other audios movies other videos albums genres etc. are being accessed shared viewed played etc. the most and the least at the moment that particular aspect e.g. list such as a sub playlist is being viewed. If a user makes an action and or an occurrence of an event happens in any category the list may automatically update change sort group etc. to indicate which content media files are being accessed shared viewed played etc. the most number of times and the least number of times. This provides the user with an up to date and current list for viewing while accessing the high traffic trending and or low traffic files in a separate list according to the amount of times the users on a particular website media community or any website media community have accessed shared viewed played etc. each individual media content file such as song other audio movies other video album genre etc.

Embodiments or examples include any of the above system wherein the network comprises one or more of a cloud based network a Local Area Network LAN a Wide Area Network WAN a Metropolitan Area Network MAN a Personal Area Network PAN an intranet an extranet or the Internet.

While one or more implementations have been described by way of example and in terms of the specific embodiments it is to be understood that one or more implementations are not limited to the disclosed embodiments. To the contrary it is intended to cover various modifications and similar arrangements as would be apparent to those skilled in the art. Therefore the scope of the appended claims should be accorded the broadest interpretation so as to encompass all such modifications and similar arrangements. It is to be understood that the above description is intended to be illustrative and not restrictive.

