---

title: Droplet actuators that include molecular barrier coatings
abstract: Droplet actuators that include molecular barrier coatings are provided. The molecular barrier coating may be provided atop the conductive layer of the top substrate, atop the droplet operations electrodes of the bottom substrate, or both. Where the conductive layer of the top substrate and/or the droplet operations electrodes of the bottom substrate are formed of an electrically conductive organic polymer, such as poly(3,4-ethylenedioxythiophene) poly(styrenesulfonate) (PEDOT:PSS), the molecular barrier coating helps to immobilize the contents of the PEDOT:PSS layer. Further, the molecular barrier coating reduces, preferably entirely eliminates, moisture from seeping into the electrically conducting organic polymer. Methods of conducting droplet operations using the disclosed droplet actuators are also provided.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09223317&OS=09223317&RS=09223317
owner: ADVANCED LIQUID LOGIC, INC.
number: 09223317
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130612
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Patent Application No. 61 659 527 filed on Jun. 14 2012 entitled Droplet Actuators that include Molecular Barrier Coatings the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was made with government support under HD062316 awarded by National Institutes of Health. The United States Government has certain rights in the invention.

A droplet actuator typically includes one or more substrates configured to form a surface or gap for conducting droplet operations. The one or more substrates establish a droplet operations surface or gap for conducting droplet operations and may also include electrodes arranged to conduct the droplet operations. The droplet operations substrate or the gap between the substrates may be coated or filled with a filler fluid that is immiscible with the liquid that forms the droplets. Moisture inside a droplet actuator can have adverse effects on the operation thereof. Consequently there is a need for new approaches to overcoming moisture related problems in droplet actuators.

In one embodiment the invention provides a droplet actuator. The droplet actuator may include a bottom substrate including a droplet operations electrodes a top substrate separated from the bottom substrate to form a gap the top substrate may further include a conductive layer and a molecular barrier layer atop the conductive layer of the top substrate and or a molecular barrier layer atop the droplet operations electrodes of the bottom substrate. In one aspect the droplet actuator may further include a hydrophobic layer atop the molecular barrier layer. In another aspect the droplet operations electrodes may be on the side of bottom substrate that is facing droplet operations gap. In a further aspect the conductive layer of the top substrate includes a ground or reference electrode with respect to droplet operations electrodes of the bottom substrate.

In another embodiment the invention provides a droplet actuator including a bottom substrate including droplet operations electrodes a top substrate separated from the bottom substrate to form a gap the top substrate including a conductive layer and a molecular barrier layer atop the conductive layer of the top substrate and or a molecular barrier layer atop the droplet operations electrodes of the bottom substrate further wherein the conductive layer of the top substrate and or the droplet operations electrodes of the bottom substrate are formed of an electrically conductive organic polymer. In one aspect the electrically conductive organic polymer may be poly 3 4 ethylenedioxythiophene poly styrenesulfonate PEDOT PSS . In another aspect the molecular barrier layer immobilizes the contents of the conductive layer of the top substrate and or the contents of the droplet operations electrodes of the bottom substrate. In some aspects the molecular barrier layer may be a moisture barrier. In other aspects the molecular barrier layer may be a sieve that allows water to pass through the molecular barrier layer while larger molecules are blocked from passing through the molecular barrier layer.

In yet another embodiment the invention provides a droplet actuator including a bottom substrate including droplet operations electrodes a top substrate separated from the bottom substrate to form a gap the top substrate including a conductive layer and a molecular barrier layer atop the conductive layer of the top substrate and or a molecular barrier layer atop the droplet operations electrodes of the bottom substrate further wherein the molecular barrier layer is a molecular barrier coating. In one aspect the molecular barrier coating may include a stretchable gel or a hard coating. Stretchable gels may be selected from the group consisting of silicones hydrogels and polyethylene glycol derivatives. In another aspect hard coatings may include a ceramic selected from the group consisting of silicon oxides silicon nitrides barium strontium titanate bismuth zinc niobiate and tantalum oxides. In one aspect the thickness of the molecular barrier layer may be from about 1 nm to about 100 m.

In still yet another embodiment the invention provides a droplet actuator including a bottom substrate including droplet operations electrodes a top substrate separated from the bottom substrate to form a gap the top substrate comprising a conductive layer and a molecular barrier layer atop the conductive layer of the top substrate and or a molecular barrier layer atop the droplet operations electrodes of the bottom substrate further wherein the molecular barrier layer atop the conductive layer of the top substrate is excluded when the conductive layer of the top substrate is formed of an electrically conductive material that is less affected by moisture such as indium tin oxide.

In still yet another embodiment the invention provides a droplet actuator including a bottom substrate including droplet operations electrodes a top substrate separated from the bottom substrate to form a gap the top substrate including a conductive layer and a molecular barrier layer atop the conductive layer of the top substrate and or a molecular barrier layer atop the droplet operations electrodes of the bottom substrate further wherein the molecular barrier layer atop the droplet operations electrodes of the bottom substrate is excluded when the droplet operations electrodes of the bottom substrate are formed of an electrically conductive material that is less affected by moisture such as copper aluminum gold or silver.

In still yet another embodiment the invention provides a method of performing droplet operations on one or more droplets in a droplet actuator including providing a droplet actuator as disclosed herein wherein the conductive layer of the top substrate and or the droplet operations electrodes of the bottom substrate are formed of an electrically conductive organic polymer such as poly 3 4 ethylenedioxythiophene poly styrenesulfonate PEDOT PSS and wherein the molecular barrier layer is a moisture barrier filling the droplet operations gap the of droplet actuator with a filler fluid and transporting the one or more droplets in the droplet operations gap via droplet operations along the droplet operations electrodes and through the filler fluid wherein the one or more droplets are aqueous or are emulsions that include aqueous components and the molecular barrier layer is a moisture barrier to water passing from the droplet operations gap to the droplet operations electrodes of the bottom substrate and or to the conductive layer of the top substrate.

In still yet another embodiment the invention provides a method of performing droplet operations on one or more droplets in a droplet actuator including providing a droplet actuator as disclosed herein wherein the conductive layer of the top substrate and or the droplet operations electrodes of the bottom substrate are formed of an electrically conductive organic polymer such as poly 3 4 ethylenedioxythiophene poly styrenesulfonate PEDOT PSS and wherein the molecular barrier layer is a sieve that allows water to pass through the molecular barrier layer while larger molecules are blocked from passing through the molecular barrier layer filling the droplet operations gap of the droplet actuator with a filler fluid transporting the one or more droplets in the droplet operations gap via droplet operations along the droplet operations electrodes and through the filler fluid wherein high temperature electrowetting on dielectric EWOD methods are performed on the one or more droplets and wherein only water expelled from the PEDOT PSS may pass through the molecular barrier layer while larger molecules that may negatively affect the performance of the high temperature EWOD methods are blocked from passing through the molecular barrier layer. In one aspect the high temperature EWOD methods include thermocycling in a polymerase chain reaction PCR .

 Activate with reference to one or more electrodes means affecting a change in the electrical state of the one or more electrodes which in the presence of a droplet results in a droplet operation. Activation of an electrode can be accomplished using alternating or direct current. Any suitable voltage may be used. For example an electrode may be activated using a voltage which is greater than about 150 V or greater than about 200 V or greater than about 250 V or from about 275 V to about 375 V or about 300 V. Where alternating current is used any suitable frequency may be employed. For example an electrode may be activated using alternating current having a frequency from about 1 Hz to about 100 Hz or from about 10 Hz to about 60 Hz or from about 20 Hz to about 40 Hz or about 30 Hz.

 Bead with respect to beads on a droplet actuator means any bead or particle that is capable of interacting with a droplet on or in proximity with a droplet actuator. Beads may be any of a wide variety of shapes such as spherical generally spherical egg shaped disc shaped cubical amorphous and other three dimensional shapes. The bead may for example be capable of being subjected to a droplet operation in a droplet on a droplet actuator or otherwise configured with respect to a droplet actuator in a manner which permits a droplet on the droplet actuator to be brought into contact with the bead on the droplet actuator and or off the droplet actuator. Beads may be provided in a droplet in a droplet operations gap or on a droplet operations surface. Beads may be provided in a reservoir that is external to a droplet operations gap or situated apart from a droplet operations surface and the reservoir may be associated with a flow path that permits a droplet including the beads to be brought into a droplet operations gap or into contact with a droplet operations surface. Beads may be manufactured using a wide variety of materials including for example resins and polymers. The beads may be any suitable size including for example microbeads microparticles nanobeads and nanoparticles. In some cases beads are magnetically responsive in other cases beads are not significantly magnetically responsive. For magnetically responsive beads the magnetically responsive material may constitute substantially all of a bead a portion of a bead or only one component of a bead. The remainder of the bead may include among other things polymeric material coatings and moieties which permit attachment of an assay reagent. Examples of suitable beads include flow cytometry microbeads polystyrene microparticles and nanoparticles functionalized polystyrene microparticles and nanoparticles coated polystyrene microparticles and nanoparticles silica microbeads fluorescent microspheres and nanospheres functionalized fluorescent microspheres and nanospheres coated fluorescent microspheres and nanospheres color dyed microparticles and nanoparticles magnetic microparticles and nanoparticles superparamagnetic microparticles and nanoparticles e.g. DYNABEADS particles available from Invitrogen Group Carlsbad Calif. fluorescent microparticles and nanoparticles coated magnetic microparticles and nanoparticles ferromagnetic microparticles and nanoparticles coated ferromagnetic microparticles and nanoparticles and those described in U.S. Patent Publication Nos. 20050260686 entitled Multiplex flow assays preferably with magnetic particles as solid phase published on Nov. 24 2005 20030132538 entitled Encapsulation of discrete quanta of fluorescent particles published on Jul. 17 2003 20050118574 entitled Multiplexed Analysis of Clinical Specimens Apparatus and Method published on Jun. 2 2005 20050277197. Entitled Microparticles with Multiple Fluorescent Signals and Methods of Using Same published on Dec. 15 2005 20060159962 entitled Magnetic Microspheres for use in Fluorescence based Applications published on Jul. 20 2006 the entire disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference for their teaching concerning beads and magnetically responsive materials and beads. Beads may be pre coupled with a biomolecule or other substance that is able to bind to and form a complex with a biomolecule. Beads may be pre coupled with an antibody protein or antigen DNA RNA probe or any other molecule with an affinity for a desired target. Examples of droplet actuator techniques for immobilizing magnetically responsive beads and or non magnetically responsive beads and or conducting droplet operations protocols using beads are described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 639 566 entitled Droplet Based Particle Sorting filed on Dec. 15 2006 U.S. Patent Application No. 61 039 183 entitled Multiplexing Bead Detection in a Single Droplet filed on Mar. 25 2008 U.S. Patent Application No. 61 047 789 entitled Droplet Actuator Devices and Droplet Operations Using Beads filed on Apr. 25 2008 U.S. Patent Application No. 61 086 183 entitled Droplet Actuator Devices and Methods for Manipulating Beads filed on Aug. 5 2008 International Patent Application No. PCT US2008 053545 entitled Droplet Actuator Devices and Methods Employing Magnetic Beads filed on Feb. 11 2008 International Patent Application No. PCT US2008 058018 entitled Bead based Multiplexed Analytical Methods and Instrumentation filed on Mar. 24 2008 International Patent Application No. PCT US2008 058047 Bead Sorting on a Droplet Actuator filed on Mar. 23 2008 and International Patent Application No. PCT US2006 047486 entitled Droplet based Biochemistry filed on Dec. 11 2006 the entire disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference. Bead characteristics may be employed in the multiplexing aspects of the invention. Examples of beads having characteristics suitable for multiplexing as well as methods of detecting and analyzing signals emitted from such beads may be found in U.S. Patent Publication No. 20080305481 entitled Systems and Methods for Multiplex Analysis of PCR in Real Time published on Dec. 11 2008 U.S. Patent Publication No. 20080151240 Methods and Systems for Dynamic Range Expansion published on Jun. 26 2008 U.S. Patent Publication No. 20070207513 entitled Methods Products and Kits for Identifying an Analyte in a Sample published on Sep. 6 2007 U.S. Patent Publication No. 20070064990 entitled Methods and Systems for Image Data Processing published on Mar. 22 2007 U.S. Patent Publication No. 20060159962 entitled Magnetic Microspheres for use in Fluorescence based Applications published on Jul. 20 2006 U.S. Patent Publication No. 20050277197 entitled Microparticles with Multiple Fluorescent Signals and Methods of Using Same published on Dec. 15 2005 and U.S. Patent Publication No. 20050118574 entitled Multiplexed Analysis of Clinical Specimens Apparatus and Method published on Jun. 2 2005.

 Droplet means a volume of liquid on a droplet actuator. Typically a droplet is at least partially bounded by a filler fluid. For example a droplet may be completely surrounded by a filler fluid or may be bounded by filler fluid and one or more surfaces of the droplet actuator. As another example a droplet may be bounded by filler fluid one or more surfaces of the droplet actuator and or the atmosphere. As yet another example a droplet may be bounded by filler fluid and the atmosphere. Droplets may for example be aqueous or non aqueous or may be mixtures or emulsions including aqueous and non aqueous components. Droplets may take a wide variety of shapes nonlimiting examples include generally disc shaped slug shaped truncated sphere ellipsoid spherical partially compressed sphere hemispherical ovoid cylindrical combinations of such shapes and various shapes formed during droplet operations such as merging or splitting or formed as a result of contact of such shapes with one or more surfaces of a droplet actuator. For examples of droplet fluids that may be subjected to droplet operations using the approach of the invention see International Patent Application No. PCT US 06 47486 entitled Droplet Based Biochemistry filed on Dec. 11 2006. In various embodiments a droplet may include a biological sample such as whole blood lymphatic fluid serum plasma sweat tear saliva sputum cerebrospinal fluid amniotic fluid seminal fluid vaginal excretion serous fluid synovial fluid pericardial fluid peritoneal fluid pleural fluid transudates exudates cystic fluid bile urine gastric fluid intestinal fluid fecal samples liquids containing single or multiple cells liquids containing organelles fluidized tissues fluidized organisms liquids containing multi celled organisms biological swabs and biological washes. Moreover a droplet may include a reagent such as water deionized water saline solutions acidic solutions basic solutions detergent solutions and or buffers. Other examples of droplet contents include reagents such as a reagent for a biochemical protocol such as a nucleic acid amplification protocol an affinity based assay protocol an enzymatic assay protocol a sequencing protocol and or a protocol for analyses of biological fluids. A droplet may include one or more beads.

 Droplet Actuator means a device for manipulating droplets. For examples of droplet actuators see Pamula et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 911 132 entitled Apparatus for Manipulating Droplets by Electrowetting Based Techniques issued on Jun. 28 2005 Pamula et al. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 343 284 entitled Apparatuses and Methods for Manipulating Droplets on a Printed Circuit Board filed on filed on Jan. 30 2006 Pollack et al. International Patent Application No. PCT US2006 047486 entitled Droplet Based Biochemistry filed on Dec. 11 2006 Shenderov U.S. Pat. No. 6 773 566 entitled Electrostatic Actuators for Microfluidics and Methods for Using Same issued on Aug. 10 2004 and U.S. Pat. No. 6 565 727 entitled Actuators for Microfluidics Without Moving Parts issued on Jan. 24 2000 Kim and or Shah et al. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 343 261 entitled Electrowetting driven Micropumping filed on Jan. 27 2003 Ser. No. 11 275 668 entitled Method and Apparatus for Promoting the Complete Transfer of Liquid Drops from a Nozzle filed on Jan. 23 2006 Ser. No. 11 460 188 entitled Small Object Moving on Printed Circuit Board filed on Jan. 23 2006 Ser. No. 12 465 935 entitled Method for Using Magnetic Particles in Droplet Microfluidics filed on May 14 2009 and Ser. No. 12 513 157 entitled Method and Apparatus for Real time Feedback Control of Electrical Manipulation of Droplets on Chip filed on Apr. 30 2009 Velev U.S. Pat. No. 7 547 380 entitled Droplet Transportation Devices and Methods Having a Fluid Surface issued on Jun. 16 2009 Sterling et al. U.S. Pat. No. 7 163 612 entitled Method Apparatus and Article for Microfluidic Control via Electrowetting for Chemical Biochemical and Biological Assays and the Like issued on Jan. 16 2007 Becker and Gascoyne et al. U.S. Pat. No. 7 641 779 entitled Method and Apparatus for Programmable fluidic Processing issued on Jan. 5 2010 and U.S. Pat. No. 6 977 033 entitled Method and Apparatus for Programmable fluidic Processing issued on Dec. 20 2005 Decre et al. U.S. Pat. No. 7 328 979 entitled System for Manipulation of a Body of Fluid issued on Feb. 12 2008 Yamakawa et al. U.S. Patent Pub. No. 20060039823 entitled Chemical Analysis Apparatus published on Feb. 23 2006 Wu International Patent Pub. No. WO 2009 003184 entitled Digital Microfluidics Based Apparatus for Heat exchanging Chemical Processes published on Dec. 31 2008 Fouillet et al. U.S. Patent Pub. No. 20090192044 entitled Electrode Addressing Method published on Jul. 30 2009 Fouillet et al. U.S. Pat. No. 7 052 244 entitled Device for Displacement of Small Liquid Volumes Along a Micro catenary Line by Electrostatic Forces issued on May 30 2006 Marchand et al. U.S. Patent Pub. No. 20080124252 entitled Droplet Microreactor published on May 29 2008 Adachi et al. U.S. Patent Pub. No. 20090321262 entitled Liquid Transfer Device published on Dec. 31 2009 Roux et al. U.S. Patent Pub. No. 20050179746 entitled Device for Controlling the Displacement of a Drop Between two or Several Solid Substrates published on Aug. 18 2005 Dhindsa et al. Virtual Electrowetting Channels Electronic Liquid Transport with Continuous Channel Functionality Lab Chip 10 832 836 2010 the entire disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference along with their priority documents. Certain droplet actuators will include one or more substrates arranged with a droplet operations gap therebetween and electrodes associated with e.g. layered on attached to and or embedded in the one or more substrates and arranged to conduct one or more droplet operations. For example certain droplet actuators will include a base or bottom substrate droplet operations electrodes associated with the substrate one or more dielectric layers atop the substrate and or electrodes and optionally one or more hydrophobic layers atop the substrate dielectric layers and or the electrodes forming a droplet operations surface. A top substrate may also be provided which is separated from the droplet operations surface by a gap commonly referred to as a droplet operations gap. Various electrode arrangements on the top and or bottom substrates are discussed in the above referenced patents and applications and certain novel electrode arrangements are discussed in the description of the invention. During droplet operations it is preferred that droplets remain in continuous contact or frequent contact with a ground or reference electrode. A ground or reference electrode may be associated with the top substrate facing the gap the bottom substrate facing the gap in the gap. Where electrodes are provided on both substrates electrical contacts for coupling the electrodes to a droplet actuator instrument for controlling or monitoring the electrodes may be associated with one or both plates. In some cases electrodes on one substrate are electrically coupled to the other substrate so that only one substrate is in contact with the droplet actuator. In one embodiment a conductive material e.g. an epoxy such as MASTER BOND Polymer System EP79 available from Master Bond Inc. Hackensack N.J. provides the electrical connection between electrodes on one substrate and electrical paths on the other substrates e.g. a ground electrode on a top substrate may be coupled to an electrical path on a bottom substrate by such a conductive material. Where multiple substrates are used a spacer may be provided between the substrates to determine the height of the gap therebetween and define dispensing reservoirs. The spacer height may for example be from about 5 m to about 600 m or about 100 m to about 400 m or about 200 m to about 350 m or about 250 m to about 300 m or about 275 m. The spacer may for example be formed of a layer of projections form the top or bottom substrates and or a material inserted between the top and bottom substrates. One or more openings may be provided in the one or more substrates for forming a fluid path through which liquid may be delivered into the droplet operations gap. The one or more openings may in some cases be aligned for interaction with one or more electrodes e.g. aligned such that liquid flowed through the opening will come into sufficient proximity with one or more droplet operations electrodes to permit a droplet operation to be effected by the droplet operations electrodes using the liquid. The base or bottom and top substrates may in some cases be formed as one integral component. One or more reference electrodes may be provided on the base or bottom and or top substrates and or in the gap. Examples of reference electrode arrangements are provided in the above referenced patents and patent applications. In various embodiments the manipulation of droplets by a droplet actuator may be electrode mediated e.g. electrowetting mediated or dielectrophoresis mediated or Coulombic force mediated. Examples of other techniques for controlling droplet operations that may be used in the droplet actuators of the invention include using devices that induce hydrodynamic fluidic pressure such as those that operate on the basis of mechanical principles e.g. external syringe pumps pneumatic membrane pumps vibrating membrane pumps vacuum devices centrifugal forces piezoelectric ultrasonic pumps and acoustic forces electrical or magnetic principles e.g. electroosmotic flow electrokinetic pumps ferrofluidic plugs electrohydrodynamic pumps attraction or repulsion using magnetic forces and magnetohydrodynamic pumps thermodynamic principles e.g. gas bubble generation phase change induced volume expansion other kinds of surface wetting principles e.g. electrowetting and optoelectrowetting as well as chemically thermally structurally and radioactively induced surface tension gradients gravity surface tension e.g. capillary action electrostatic forces e.g. electroosmotic flow centrifugal flow substrate disposed on a compact disc and rotated magnetic forces e.g. oscillating ions causes flow magnetohydrodynamic forces and vacuum or pressure differential. In certain embodiments combinations of two or more of the foregoing techniques may be employed to conduct a droplet operation in a droplet actuator of the invention. Similarly one or more of the foregoing may be used to deliver liquid into a droplet operations gap e.g. from a reservoir in another device or from an external reservoir of the droplet actuator e.g. a reservoir associated with a droplet actuator substrate and a flow path from the reservoir into the droplet operations gap . Droplet operations surfaces of certain droplet actuators of the invention may be made from hydrophobic materials or may be coated or treated to make them hydrophobic. For example in some cases some portion or all of the droplet operations surfaces may be derivatized with low surface energy materials or chemistries e.g. by deposition or using in situ synthesis using compounds such as poly or per fluorinated compounds in solution or polymerizable monomers. Examples include TEFLON AF available from DuPont Wilmington Del. members of the cytop family of materials coatings in the FLUOROPEL family of hydrophobic and superhydrophobic coatings available from Cytonix Corporation Beltsville Md. silane coatings fluorosilane coatings hydrophobic phosphonate derivatives e.g. those sold by Aculon Inc and NOVEC electronic coatings available from 3M Company St. Paul Minn. and other fluorinated monomers for plasma enhanced chemical vapor deposition PECVD . In some cases the droplet operations surface may include a hydrophobic coating having a thickness ranging from about 10 nm to about 1 000 nm. Moreover in some embodiments the top substrate of the droplet actuator includes an electrically conducting organic polymer which is then coated with a hydrophobic coating or otherwise treated to make the droplet operations surface hydrophobic. For example the electrically conducting organic polymer that is deposited onto a plastic substrate may be poly 3 4 ethylenedioxythiophene poly styrenesulfonate PEDOT PSS . Other examples of electrically conducting organic polymers and alternative conductive layers are described in Pollack et al. International Patent Application No. PCT US2010 040705 entitled Droplet Actuator Devices and Methods the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference. One or both substrates may be fabricated using a printed circuit board PCB glass indium tin oxide ITO coated glass and or semiconductor materials as the substrate. When the substrate is ITO coated glass the ITO coating is preferably a thickness in the range of about 20 to about 200 nm preferably about 50 to about 150 nm or about 75 to about 125 nm or about 100 nm. In some cases the top and or bottom substrate includes a PCB substrate that is coated with a dielectric such as a polyimide dielectric which may in some cases also be coated or otherwise treated to make the droplet operations surface hydrophobic. When the substrate includes a PCB the following materials are examples of suitable materials MITSUI BN 300 available from MITSUI Chemicals America Inc. San Jose Calif. ARLON 11N available from Arlon Inc Santa Ana Calif. . NELCO N4000 6 and N5000 30 32 available from Park Electrochemical Corp. Melville N.Y. ISOLA FR406 available from Isola Group Chandler Ariz. especially IS620 fluoropolymer family suitable for fluorescence detection since it has low background fluorescence polyimide family polyester polyethylene naphthalate polycarbonate polyetheretherketone liquid crystal polymer cyclo olefin copolymer COC cyclo olefin polymer COP aramid THERMOUNT nonwoven aramid reinforcement available from DuPont Wilmington Del. NOMEX brand fiber available from DuPont Wilmington Del. and paper. Various materials are also suitable for use as the dielectric component of the substrate. Examples include vapor deposited dielectric such as PARYLENE C especially on glass and PARYLENE N available from Parylene Coating Services Inc. Katy Tex. TEFLON AF coatings cytop soldermasks such as liquid photoimageable soldermasks e.g. on PCB like TAIYO PSR4000 series TAIYO PSR and AUS series available from Taiyo America Inc. Carson City Nev. good thermal characteristics for applications involving thermal control and PROBIMER 8165 good thermal characteristics for applications involving thermal control available from Huntsman Advanced Materials Americas Inc. Los Angeles Calif. dry film soldermask such as those in the VACREL dry film soldermask line available from DuPont Wilmington Del. film dielectrics such as polyimide film e.g. KAPTON polyimide film available from DuPont Wilmington Del. polyethylene and fluoropolymers e.g. FEP polytetrafluoroethylene polyester polyethylene naphthalate cyclo olefin copolymer COC cyclo olefin polymer COP any other PCB substrate material listed above black matrix resin and polypropylene. Droplet transport voltage and frequency may be selected for performance with reagents used in specific assay protocols. Design parameters may be varied e.g. number and placement of on actuator reservoirs number of independent electrode connections size volume of different reservoirs placement of magnets bead washing zones electrode size inter electrode pitch and gap height between top and bottom substrates may be varied for use with specific reagents protocols droplet volumes etc. In some cases a substrate of the invention may derivatized with low surface energy materials or chemistries e.g. using deposition or in situ synthesis using poly or per fluorinated compounds in solution or polymerizable monomers. Examples include TEFLON AF coatings and FLUOROPEL coatings for dip or spray coating and other fluorinated monomers for plasma enhanced chemical vapor deposition PECVD . Additionally in some cases some portion or all of the droplet operations surface may be coated with a substance for reducing background noise such as background fluorescence from a PCB substrate. For example the noise reducing coating may include a black matrix resin such as the black matrix resins available from Toray industries Inc. Japan. Electrodes of a droplet actuator are typically controlled by a controller or a processor which is itself provided as part of a system which may include processing functions as well as data and software storage and input and output capabilities. Reagents may be provided on the droplet actuator in the droplet operations gap or in a reservoir fluidly coupled to the droplet operations gap. The reagents may be in liquid form e.g. droplets or they may be provided in a reconstitutable form in the droplet operations gap or in a reservoir fluidly coupled to the droplet operations gap. Reconstitutable reagents may typically be combined with liquids for reconstitution. An example of reconstitutable reagents suitable for use with the invention includes those described in Meathrel et al. U.S. Pat. No. 7 727 466 entitled Disintegratable films for diagnostic devices granted on Jun. 1 2010.

 Droplet operation means any manipulation of a droplet on a droplet actuator. A droplet operation may for example include loading a droplet into the droplet actuator dispensing one or more droplets from a source droplet splitting separating or dividing a droplet into two or more droplets transporting a droplet from one location to another in any direction merging or combining two or more droplets into a single droplet diluting a droplet mixing a droplet agitating a droplet deforming a droplet retaining a droplet in position incubating a droplet heating a droplet vaporizing a droplet cooling a droplet disposing of a droplet transporting a droplet out of a droplet actuator other droplet operations described herein and or any combination of the foregoing. The terms merge merging combine combining and the like are used to describe the creation of one droplet from two or more droplets. It should be understood that when such a term is used in reference to two or more droplets any combination of droplet operations that are sufficient to result in the combination of the two or more droplets into one droplet may be used. For example merging droplet A with droplet B can be achieved by transporting droplet A into contact with a stationary droplet B transporting droplet B into contact with a stationary droplet A or transporting droplets A and B into contact with each other. The terms splitting separating and dividing are not intended to imply any particular outcome with respect to volume of the resulting droplets i.e. the volume of the resulting droplets can be the same or different or number of resulting droplets the number of resulting droplets may be 2 3 4 5 or more . The term mixing refers to droplet operations which result in more homogenous distribution of one or more components within a droplet. Examples of loading droplet operations include microdialysis loading pressure assisted loading robotic loading passive loading and pipette loading. Droplet operations may be electrode mediated. In some cases droplet operations are further facilitated by the use of hydrophilic and or hydrophobic regions on surfaces and or by physical obstacles. For examples of droplet operations see the patents and patent applications cited above under the definition of droplet actuator. Impedance or capacitance sensing or imaging techniques may sometimes be used to determine or confirm the outcome of a droplet operation. Examples of such techniques are described in Sturmer et al. International Patent Pub. No. WO 2008 101194 entitled Capacitance Detection in a Droplet Actuator published on Aug. 21 2008 the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference. Generally speaking the sensing or imaging techniques may be used to confirm the presence or absence of a droplet at a specific electrode. For example the presence of a dispensed droplet at the destination electrode following a droplet dispensing operation confirms that the droplet dispensing operation was effective. Similarly the presence of a droplet at a detection spot at an appropriate step in an assay protocol may confirm that a previous set of droplet operations has successfully produced a droplet for detection. Droplet transport time can be quite fast. For example in various embodiments transport of a droplet from one electrode to the next may exceed about 1 sec or about 0.1 sec or about 0.01 sec or about 0.001 sec. In one embodiment the electrode is operated in AC mode but is switched to DC mode for imaging. It is helpful for conducting droplet operations for the footprint area of droplet to be similar to electrowetting area in other words 1x 2x 3x droplets are usefully controlled operated using 1 2 and 3 electrodes respectively. If the droplet footprint is greater than the number of electrodes available for conducting a droplet operation at a given time the difference between the droplet size and the number of electrodes should typically not be greater than 1 in other words a 2x droplet is usefully controlled using 1 electrode and a 3x droplet is usefully controlled using 2 electrodes. When droplets include beads it is useful for droplet size to be equal to the number of electrodes controlling the droplet e.g. transporting the droplet.

 Filler fluid means a fluid associated with a droplet operations substrate of a droplet actuator which fluid is sufficiently immiscible with a droplet phase to render the droplet phase subject to electrode mediated droplet operations. For example the droplet operations gap of a droplet actuator is typically filled with a filler fluid. The filler fluid may for example be a low viscosity oil such as silicone oil or hexadecane filler fluid. The filler fluid may fill the entire gap of the droplet actuator or may coat one or more surfaces of the droplet actuator. Filler fluids may be conductive or non conductive. Filler fluids may for example be doped with surfactants or other additives. For example additives may be selected to improve droplet operations and or reduce loss of reagent or target substances from droplets formation of microdroplets cross contamination between droplets contamination of droplet actuator surfaces degradation of droplet actuator materials etc. Composition of the filler fluid including surfactant doping may be selected for performance with reagents used in the specific assay protocols and effective interaction or non interaction with droplet actuator materials. Examples of filler fluids and filler fluid formulations suitable for use with the invention are provided in Srinivasan et al International Patent Pub. Nos. WO 2010 027894 entitled Droplet Actuators Modified Fluids and Methods published on Mar. 11 2010 and WO 2009 021173 entitled Use of Additives for Enhancing Droplet Operations published on Feb. 12 2009 Sista et al. International Patent Pub. No. WO 2008 098236 entitled Droplet Actuator Devices and Methods Employing Magnetic Beads published on Aug. 14 2008 and Monroe et al. U.S. Patent Publication No. 20080283414 entitled Electrowetting Devices filed on May 17 2007 the entire disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference as well as the other patents and patent applications cited herein.

 Immobilize with respect to magnetically responsive beads means that the beads are substantially restrained in position in a droplet or in filler fluid on a droplet actuator. For example in one embodiment immobilized beads are sufficiently restrained in position in a droplet to permit execution of a droplet splitting operation yielding one droplet with substantially all of the beads and one droplet substantially lacking in the beads.

 Magnetically responsive means responsive to a magnetic field. Magnetically responsive beads include or are composed of magnetically responsive materials. Examples of magnetically responsive materials include paramagnetic materials ferromagnetic materials ferrimagnetic materials and metamagnetic materials. Examples of suitable paramagnetic materials include iron nickel and cobalt as well as metal oxides such as Fe3O4 BaFe12O19 CoO NiO Mn2O3 Cr2O3 and CoMnP.

 Reservoir means an enclosure or partial enclosure configured for holding storing or supplying liquid. A droplet actuator system of the invention may include on cartridge reservoirs and or off cartridge reservoirs. On cartridge reservoirs may be 1 on actuator reservoirs which are reservoirs in the droplet operations gap or on the droplet operations surface 2 off actuator reservoirs which are reservoirs on the droplet actuator cartridge but outside the droplet operations gap and not in contact with the droplet operations surface or 3 hybrid reservoirs which have on actuator regions and off actuator regions. An example of an off actuator reservoir is a reservoir in the top substrate. An off actuator reservoir is typically in fluid communication with an opening or flow path arranged for flowing liquid from the off actuator reservoir into the droplet operations gap such as into an on actuator reservoir. An off cartridge reservoir may be a reservoir that is not part of the droplet actuator cartridge at all but which flows liquid to some portion of the droplet actuator cartridge. For example an off cartridge reservoir may be part of a system or docking station to which the droplet actuator cartridge is coupled during operation. Similarly an off cartridge reservoir may be a reagent storage container or syringe which is used to force fluid into an on cartridge reservoir or into a droplet operations gap. A system using an off cartridge reservoir will typically include a fluid passage means whereby liquid may be transferred from the off cartridge reservoir into an on cartridge reservoir or into a droplet operations gap.

 Transporting into the magnetic field of a magnet transporting towards a magnet and the like as used herein to refer to droplets and or magnetically responsive beads within droplets is intended to refer to transporting into a region of a magnetic field capable of substantially attracting magnetically responsive beads in the droplet. Similarly transporting away from a magnet or magnetic field transporting out of the magnetic field of a magnet and the like as used herein to refer to droplets and or magnetically responsive beads within droplets is intended to refer to transporting away from a region of a magnetic field capable of substantially attracting magnetically responsive beads in the droplet whether or not the droplet or magnetically responsive beads is completely removed from the magnetic field. It will be appreciated that in any of such cases described herein the droplet may be transported towards or away from the desired region of the magnetic field and or the desired region of the magnetic field may be moved towards or away from the droplet. Reference to an electrode a droplet or magnetically responsive beads being within or in a magnetic field or the like is intended to describe a situation in which the electrode is situated in a manner which permits the electrode to transport a droplet into and or away from a desired region of a magnetic field or the droplet or magnetically responsive beads is are situated in a desired region of the magnetic field in each case where the magnetic field in the desired region is capable of substantially attracting any magnetically responsive beads in the droplet. Similarly reference to an electrode a droplet or magnetically responsive beads being outside of or away from a magnetic field and the like is intended to describe a situation in which the electrode is situated in a manner which permits the electrode to transport a droplet away from a certain region of a magnetic field or the droplet or magnetically responsive beads is are situated away from a certain region of the magnetic field in each case where the magnetic field in such region is not capable of substantially attracting any magnetically responsive beads in the droplet or in which any remaining attraction does not eliminate the effectiveness of droplet operations conducted in the region. In various aspects of the invention a system a droplet actuator or another component of a system may include a magnet such as one or more permanent magnets e.g. a single cylindrical or bar magnet or an array of such magnets such as a Halbach array or an electromagnet or array of electromagnets to form a magnetic field for interacting with magnetically responsive beads or other components on chip. Such interactions may for example include substantially immobilizing or restraining movement or flow of magnetically responsive beads during storage or in a droplet during a droplet operation or pulling magnetically responsive beads out of a droplet.

 Washing with respect to washing a bead means reducing the amount and or concentration of one or more substances in contact with the bead or exposed to the bead from a droplet in contact with the bead. The reduction in the amount and or concentration of the substance may be partial substantially complete or even complete. The substance may be any of a wide variety of substances examples include target substances for further analysis and unwanted substances such as components of a sample contaminants and or excess reagent. In some embodiments a washing operation begins with a starting droplet in contact with a magnetically responsive bead where the droplet includes an initial amount and initial concentration of a substance. The washing operation may proceed using a variety of droplet operations. The washing operation may yield a droplet including the magnetically responsive bead where the droplet has a total amount and or concentration of the substance which is less than the initial amount and or concentration of the substance. Examples of suitable washing techniques are described in Pamula et al. U.S. Pat. No. 7 439 014 entitled Droplet Based Surface Modification and Washing granted on Oct. 21 2008 the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.

The terms top bottom over under and on are used throughout the description with reference to the relative positions of components of the droplet actuator such as relative positions of top and bottom substrates of the droplet actuator. It will be appreciated that the droplet actuator is functional regardless of its orientation in space.

When a liquid in any form e.g. a droplet or a continuous body whether moving or stationary is described as being on at or over an electrode array matrix or surface such liquid could be either in direct contact with the electrode array matrix surface or could be in contact with one or more layers or films that are interposed between the liquid and the electrode array matrix surface.

When a droplet is described as being on or loaded on a droplet actuator it should be understood that the droplet is arranged on the droplet actuator in a manner which facilitates using the droplet actuator to conduct one or more droplet operations on the droplet the droplet is arranged on the droplet actuator in a manner which facilitates sensing of a property of or a signal from the droplet and or the droplet has been subjected to a droplet operation on the droplet actuator.

The present invention is directed to droplet actuators that include molecular barrier coatings. For example a molecular barrier coating is provided atop the conductive layer of the top substrate a molecular barrier coating is provided atop the droplet operations electrodes of the bottom substrate or both. In the case in which the conductive layer of the top substrate and or the droplet operations electrodes of the bottom substrate are formed of an electrically conductive organic polymer such as poly 3 4 ethylenedioxythiophene poly styrenesulfonate PEDOT PSS the molecular barrier coating helps to immobilize the contents of the PEDOT PSS layer. Further the molecular barrier coating reduces preferably entirely eliminates moisture from seeping into the electrically conducting organic polymer.

Bottom substrate includes an arrangement of droplet operations electrodes e.g. electrowetting electrodes . Droplet operations electrodes are on the side of bottom substrate that is facing droplet operations gap . Atop droplet operations electrodes of bottom substrate is a molecular barrier layer . Then atop molecular barrier layer of bottom substrate is a hydrophobic layer .

Top substrate includes a conductive layer which provides a ground or reference electrode with respect to droplet operations electrodes of bottom substrate . Conductive layer is on the side of top substrate that is facing droplet operations gap . Atop conductive layer of top substrate is a molecular barrier layer . Then atop molecular barrier layer of top substrate is a hydrophobic layer .

In one example the droplet operations electrodes of bottom substrate the conductive layer of top substrate or both are formed of an electrically conductive organic polymer such as poly 3 4 ethylenedioxythiophene poly styrenesulfonate PEDOT PSS which is an organic material that is electrically conductive and substantially transparent to light. Other examples of electrically conductive organic polymers and alternative conductive layers are described in Pollack et al. International Patent Application No. PCT US2010 040705 entitled Droplet Actuator Devices and Methods. Droplet operations are conducted between droplet operations electrodes of bottom substrate and conductive layer of top substrate . Therefore hydrophobic layers and are provided to facilitate a droplet operations surface on each substrate.

Molecular barrier layer of bottom substrate and molecular barrier layer of top substrate are molecular barrier coatings. The thickness of molecular barrier layer and of molecular barrier layer is for example from about 1 nm to about 100 m. Some materials used to form molecular barrier layer and molecular barrier layer may act as moisture barriers while other materials may act as sieves for larger molecules meaning that water is allowed to pass through the molecular barrier coating while larger molecules are blocked from passing therethrough.

With respect to molecular barrier coatings acting as a sieve PEDOT PSS which may be used to form the droplet operations electrodes of bottom substrate and or the conductive layer of top substrate is naturally hygroscopic and thus contains a significant amount of moisture. Consequently it may be beneficial to use molecular barrier coatings as a means to allow PEDOT PSS to breathe during high temperature electrowetting on dielectric EWOD applications such as when thermocycling in polymerase chain reaction PCR . PEDOT PSS or any other similarly hygroscopic functional layer is a selective sealant that allows only water to be expelled while retaining any leachables that can negatively affect the performance of the chemical biochemical or physical phenomena that are designed to happen in the EWOD droplet.

Molecular barrier layer and molecular barrier layer are formed for example of stretchable gels or of hard coatings which are preferably suited for process temperatures of less than about 120 C. Examples of stretchable gels include but are not limited to gels such as silicones PDMS fluorinated or not hydrogels acrylates methacrylates polyvinylalcohol PVA and polyethylene glycol derivatives PEG . Examples of hard coatings include but are not limited to ceramics including sol gels such as SiOx silicon oxides of unknown stoichiometry e.g. SiO2 SixNy silicon nitrides barium strontium titanate BST bismuth zinc niobiate BZN and tantalum oxides e.g. Ta2O5 . Commercial sealants of interest also include curable silicones eg. Zipcone UE and HardSil AM available from Gelest Inc. Morrisville Pa. .

In operation droplet operations gap of droplet actuator is filled with a filler fluid . Filler fluid is for example low viscosity oil such as silicone oil or hexadecane filler fluid. One or more droplets in droplet operations gap are transported via droplet operations along droplet operations electrodes and through the filler fluid . The one or more droplets may for example be aqueous or non aqueous or may be mixtures or emulsions including aqueous and non aqueous components. When the one or more droplets are aqueous or are emulsions that include aqueous components molecular barrier layer of bottom substrate and molecular barrier layer of top substrate provide a barrier to water passing from the droplet operations gap to droplet operations electrodes of bottom substrate and to conductive layer of top substrate . Additionally molecular barrier layer of bottom substrate immobilizes the contents e.g. PEDOT PSS of the conductive layer . Likewise molecular barrier layer of top substrate immobilizes the contents e.g. PEDOT PSS of the droplet operations electrodes . Immobilizing the contents of for example PEDOT PSS means to retain the contents of the PEDOT PSS layer. In other words prevent leachables from the PEDOT PSS from entering into the EWOD liquid space including the EWOD droplets or the filler fluid or any other useable liquids designed into the EWOD space.

In another embodiment only the top substrate of droplet actuator includes a molecular barrier coating. Namely droplet operations electrodes of bottom substrate may be formed of electrically conductive metal e.g. copper aluminum gold silver that is less affected by moisture and therefore the molecular barrier layer is excluded from bottom substrate .

In yet another embodiment only the bottom substrate of droplet actuator includes a molecular barrier coating. Namely conductive layer of top substrate may be formed of an electrically conductive material e.g. indium tin oxide ITO that is less affected by moisture and therefore the molecular barrier layer is excluded from top substrate .

Droplet actuator may be designed to fit onto an instrument deck not shown of microfluidics system . The instrument deck may hold droplet actuator and house other droplet actuator features such as but not limited to one or more magnets and one or more heating devices. For example the instrument deck may house one or more magnets which may be permanent magnets. Optionally the instrument deck may house one or more electromagnets . Magnets and or electromagnets are positioned in relation to droplet actuator for immobilization of magnetically responsive beads. Optionally the positions of magnets and or electromagnets may be controlled by a motor . Additionally the instrument deck may house one or more heating devices for controlling the temperature within for example certain reaction and or washing zones of droplet actuator . In one example heating devices may be heater bars that are positioned in relation to droplet actuator for providing thermal control thereof.

A controller of microfluidics system is electrically coupled to various hardware components of the invention such as droplet actuator electromagnets motor and heating devices as well as to a detector an impedance sensing system and any other input and or output devices not shown . Controller controls the overall operation of microfluidics system . Controller may for example be a general purpose computer special purpose computer personal computer or other programmable data processing apparatus. Controller serves to provide processing capabilities such as storing interpreting and or executing software instructions as well as controlling the overall operation of the system. Controller may be configured and programmed to control data and or power aspects of these devices. For example in one aspect with respect to droplet actuator controller controls droplet manipulation by activating deactivating electrodes.

Detector may be an imaging system that is positioned in relation to droplet actuator . In one example the imaging system may include one or more light emitting diodes LEDs i.e. an illumination source and a digital image capture device such as a charge coupled device CCD camera.

Impedance sensing system may be any circuitry for detecting impedance at a specific electrode of droplet actuator . In one example impedance sensing system may be an impedance spectrometer. Impedance sensing system may be used to monitor the capacitive loading of any electrode such as any droplet operations electrode with or without a droplet thereon. For examples of suitable capacitance detection techniques see Sturmer et al. International Patent Publication No. WO 2008 101194 entitled Capacitance Detection in a Droplet Actuator published on Aug. 21 2008 and Kale et al. International Patent Publication No. WO 2002 080822 entitled System and Method for Dispensing Liquids published on Oct. 17 2002 the entire disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference.

Droplet actuator may include disruption device . Disruption device may include any device that promotes disruption lysis of materials such as tissues cells and spores in a droplet actuator. Disruption device may for example be a sonication mechanism a heating mechanism a mechanical shearing mechanism a bead beating mechanism physical features incorporated into the droplet actuator an electric field generating mechanism a thermal cycling mechanism and any combinations thereof. Disruption device may be controlled by controller .

It will be appreciated that various aspects of the invention may be embodied as a method system computer readable medium and or computer program product. Aspects of the invention may take the form of hardware embodiments software embodiments including firmware resident software micro code etc. or embodiments combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module or system. Furthermore the methods of the invention may take the form of a computer program product on a computer usable storage medium having computer usable program code embodied in the medium.

Any suitable computer useable medium may be utilized for software aspects of the invention. The computer usable or computer readable medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus device or propagation medium. The computer readable medium may include transitory and or non transitory embodiments. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable medium would include some or all of the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM an optical storage device a transmission medium such as those supporting the Internet or an intranet or a magnetic storage device. Note that the computer usable or computer readable medium could even be paper or another suitable medium upon which the program is printed as the program can be electronically captured via for instance optical scanning of the paper or other medium then compiled interpreted or otherwise processed in a suitable manner if necessary and then stored in a computer memory. In the context of this document a computer usable or computer readable medium may be any medium that can contain store communicate propagate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device.

Program code for carrying out operations of the invention may be written in an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C or the like. However the program code for carrying out operations of the invention may also be written in conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The program code may be executed by a processor application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other component that executes the program code. The program code may be simply referred to as a software application that is stored in memory such as the computer readable medium discussed above . The program code may cause the processor or any processor controlled device to produce a graphical user interface GUI . The graphical user interface may be visually produced on a display device yet the graphical user interface may also have audible features. The program code however may operate in any processor controlled device such as a computer server personal digital assistant phone television or any processor controlled device utilizing the processor and or a digital signal processor.

The program code may locally and or remotely execute. The program code for example may be entirely or partially stored in local memory of the processor controlled device. The program code however may also be at least partially remotely stored accessed and downloaded to the processor controlled device. A user s computer for example may entirely execute the program code or only partly execute the program code. The program code may be a stand alone software package that is at least partly on the user s computer and or partly executed on a remote computer or entirely on a remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through a communications network.

The invention may be applied regardless of networking environment. The communications network may be a cable network operating in the radio frequency domain and or the Internet Protocol IP domain. The communications network however may also include a distributed computing network such as the Internet sometimes alternatively known as the World Wide Web an intranet a local area network LAN and or a wide area network WAN . The communications network may include coaxial cables copper wires fiber optic lines and or hybrid coaxial lines. The communications network may even include wireless portions utilizing any portion of the electromagnetic spectrum and any signaling standard such as the IEEE 802 family of standards GSM CDMA TDMA or any cellular standard and or the ISM band . The communications network may even include powerline portions in which signals are communicated via electrical wiring. The invention may be applied to any wireless wireline communications network regardless of physical componentry physical configuration or communications standard s .

Certain aspects of invention are described with reference to various methods and method steps. It will be understood that each method step can be implemented by the program code and or by machine instructions. The program code and or the machine instructions may create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the methods.

The program code may also be stored in a computer readable memory that can direct the processor computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to function in a particular manner such that the program code stored in the computer readable memory produce or transform an article of manufacture including instruction means which implement various aspects of the method steps.

The program code may also be loaded onto a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to cause a series of operational steps to be performed to produce a processor computer implemented process such that the program code provides steps for implementing various functions acts specified in the methods of the invention.

The foregoing detailed description of embodiments refers to the accompanying drawings which illustrate specific embodiments of the invention. Other embodiments having different structures and operations do not depart from the scope of the present invention. The term the invention or the like is used with reference to certain specific examples of the many alternative aspects or embodiments of the applicants invention set forth in this specification and neither its use nor its absence is intended to limit the scope of the applicants invention or the scope of the claims. This specification is divided into sections for the convenience of the reader only. Headings should not be construed as limiting of the scope of the invention. The definitions are intended as a part of the description of the invention. It will be understood that various details of the present invention may be changed without departing from the scope of the present invention. Furthermore the foregoing description is for the purpose of illustration only and not for the purpose of limitation.

