---

title: Universal ground adapter for marine cables
abstract: An adapter is provided for electrically connecting an interior surface of a conduit and an external surface of a cable. The adapter includes a flat strip extending longitudinally from first to second ends with first and second transverse edges and composed of an electrically conductive and mechanically flexible material. The strip includes a longitudinal ribbon that forms a ring for wrapping around the cable by curling the first and second ends together in a direction transverse to the sheet, and a plurality of first and second incisions from the transverse edges towards the ribbon, the incisions being disposed at respective intervals that correspond to a longitudinally regular pattern. The first incisions form tapering tabs for bending in the direction transverse to the sheet to produce petals that extend radially inward from the ring to engage the cable. The second incisions form peripheral tabs for bending in an opposite direction transverse to the sheet to produce flanges that extend radially outward from the ring to engage the conduit.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08747126&OS=08747126&RS=08747126
owner: The United States of America as Represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 08747126
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131010
---
The invention is a Continuation in Part claims priority to and incorporates by reference in its entirety U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 385 470 filed Jan. 26 2012 published as U.S. Patent Application Publication 2013 0090004 and assigned Navy Case 101421 which claims the benefit of priority pursuant to 35 U.S.C. 119 the benefit of priority from provisional application 61 628 298 with a filing date of Oct. 11 2011.

The invention described was made in the performance of official duties by one or more employees of the Department of the Navy and thus the invention herein may be manufactured used or licensed by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

The invention relates generally to ground adapters for electrical cables especially those used aboard marine vessels and platforms. In particular the invention relates to embodiments for low impedance designs of a cable shield ground adapter CSGA .

The United States Navy currently employs two technologies to provide electromagnetic EM protection from coupling to topside i.e. above deck cables conduit which provides an overall EM shield to cables placed within the conduit and shielded cables with CSGAs used as termination connectors. Both technologies are viable but components used are expensive and difficult to maintain. The proposed CSGA embodiments deal almost exclusively with shielded cables and conduits. These are not explicitly described herein with respect to further applications although the technology could be applied to the conduit shell whether flexible or rigid.

Conventional CSGA designs have been proven to be effective at grounding cable shielding when properly installed achieving grounding effectiveness measures that exceed 80 decibels dB but are not easily repaired. The conventional designs are designed for use with swage tubes also known as stuffing tubes. Specification requirements for the swage tube are provided in MIL S 21239. Commonly utilized CSGA designs include Glenair CSGA from Glenair Inc. of Glendale Calif. and SkinTop available from LAPP Group Inc. of Florham Park N.J. The background section of parent application publication 2013 0090004 includes further details about the conventional configurations.

Conventional electrical ground adapters yield disadvantages addressed by various exemplary embodiments of the present invention. In particular various exemplary embodiments provide an electrical grounding adapter within a conduit sealing assembly for electrically and environmentally shielding an electric cable. Various exemplary embodiments provide an adapter for electrically connecting an interior surface of a conduit and an external surface of a cable. The adapter includes a flat strip extending longitudinally from first to second ends with first and second transverse edges and composed of an electrically conductive and mechanically flexible material.

In exemplary embodiments the strip includes a longitudinal ribbon that forms a ring for wrapping around the cable by curling the first and second ends together in a direction transverse to the sheet and a plurality of first and second incisions from the transverse edges towards the ribbon the incisions being disposed at respective intervals that correspond to a longitudinally regular pattern. The first incisions form tapering tabs for bending in the direction transverse to the sheet to produce petals that extend radially inward from the ring to engage the cable. The second incisions form peripheral tabs for bending in an opposite direction transverse to the sheet to produce flanges that extend radially outward from the ring to engage the conduit.

The assembly includes a conduit having a receiving end through which the cable passes axially a lower seal that inserts into the receiving end a gland boss that inserts into the receiving end an external seal that inserts into the boss and extends axially outward from the receiving end and the grounding adapter disposed between the internal and external seals.

In the following detailed description of exemplary embodiments of the invention reference is made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and in which is shown by way of illustration specific exemplary embodiments in which the invention may be practiced. These embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the invention. Other embodiments may be utilized and logical mechanical and other changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the present invention. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the present invention is defined only by the appended claims.

Various exemplary embodiments related to the invention were developed for the purposes of providing a Cable Shield Ground Adapter CSGA with the following characteristics important for use in marine environments and in particular shipboard environments 

Patent Application Publication 2013 0090004 describes three designs for CSGAs for maritime utility notionally referred to as snowflake roll o dex and lantern for purposes of description. An activity report Cable Shield Ground Adaptor Resistance to Indirect Lighting Effects Test of June 2013 describes performance of the roll o dex and snowflake CSGA configurations of copper and stainless steel both in D and K sizes with the snowflake design demonstrating generally better grounding performance. The lantern configuration exhibited structural weakness and was hence not included. The terms adapter and adaptor are considered synonymous as spelling variants.

Swage stuffing tubes as military part M24235 17 have several standard sizes as listed at http www.shipboardelectrical.com swagetubes.html including a tube body gland nut and gland ring. The tube body can be stainless steel or aluminum. For purposes of disclosure sizes B C D and K are described herein although the principles described herein can be extended to additional cable sizes. Respective cable bore diameters for sizes B C D and K are 0.515 inch 0.640 0.750 and 1.171 inches .

The particular dimensions identified herein represent explanatory examples and are not limiting. Thus other stuffing tube and conduit sizes can be contemplated within the spirit of the claims. MIL S 24235 2C provides the military standard dimensions for electrical cable packaging available at http dornequipment.com milspecs pdf 24235 2C.pdf.

For purposes of grounding an improved design for the CSGA is disclosed herein combining advantages from the snowflake and roll o dex configurations in terms of performance and ease of manufacture. The roll o dex and lantern configurations can be produced as a metal ribbon or strip with a repeating pattern cut to length the tabs bent inward or outward and the ends joined together for wrapping around an electrical cable to be grounded.

The snowflake configuration can be produced by cookie cutter stamping of a circular coupon having an angularly regular pattern. The improved stetson or boater or porkpie configuration maintains the metal strip with repeating pattern of the roll o dex design combined with the denser penetrating contact capability of the snowflake design. The name stetson evokes a short broad brim hat common at American political conventions which the disclosed configuration resembles.

Additionally the disclosure provides for lower and upper annular gaskets to provide environmental seals for the CSGA in the swage tube. The B size lower gasket has an outer diameter OD of 0.970 and a bore inner diameter ID of 0.190 and a height of 0.563 . The B size upper gasket has a base rim of 0.996 a stem OD of 0.500 a stem ID of 0.190 and a height above the rim of 1.000 . The C size lower gasket has an OD of 1.090 and bore IDs of alternatively 0.397 and 0.230 and a height of 0.563 . The C size upper gasket has a base rim of 1.040 a stem OD of 0.608 stem IDs of alternatively 0.397 and 0.230 and a height above the rim of 1.000 .

The D size lower gasket has an OD of 1.210 and bore IDs of alternatively 0.635 and 0.474 and a height of 0.583 . The D size upper gasket has a base rim of 1.280 a stem OD of 0.750 stem IDs of alternatively 0.636 and 0.474 and a height above the rim of 1.000 . The K size lower gasket has an OD of 1.655 and bore IDs of alternatively 1.000 0.750 D insert 0.635 C insert and 0.500 B insert and a height of 1.020 . The K size upper gasket has a base rim of 1.040 a stem OD of 1.160 expanding to 1.222 at the base stem IDs of alternatively 1.000 0.750 0.635 and 0.500 for accepting smaller size inserts and a height above the rim of 1.500 . While these dimensions are derived for use with commonly available swage tube and cable sizes artisans of ordinary skill will understood that these dimensions could be adjusted to account for future variants without departing from the scope of the invention.

An upper pair of slip rings and provides axial restraint between a CSGA diaphragm shown herein as the stetson configuration and the gland ring . A lower pair of slip rings and provides axial restraint between the CSGA diaphragm and a lower gasket . Another optional insert upper gasket together with the lower gasket provide an environmental seal for the stuffing tube interior of a swage tube also called a stuffing tube into which the components can be inserted. The insert upper gaskets enable a large size swage tube to accept a thinner cable and maintain environmental integrity thereby expanding installation flexibility.

The upper gaskets and have a geometric configuration reminiscent of a top hat or stove hat. The lower gasket has a geometric configuration approximating a frustum e.g. truncated cone . The gaskets and are composed of rubber. The swage tube narrows at a choke neck before extending to shield an internal cable. The upper gaskets enable a thin cable to be protected in a larger diameter swage tube thereby enabling additional flexibility in cable shielding. An alternative configuration features a pair of CSGA diaphragms disposed over the upper shim with the lower shim and the gland ring disposed over the CSGA . The CSGA diaphragm functions equally well in either orientation.

The CSGA diaphragm can be disposed over the lower shim . An upper shim and the gland ring are disposed over the CSGA diaphragm downstream of the lower gasket . Prior to screwing the gland nut into the swage tube the upper gasket or inserts into the gland nut from its threaded end. The gland nut then screws into and its hexagonal head extends axially outward from the swage tube .

To form this pattern arrangement for the peripheral tabs the template has lower lateral incisions that repeatedly extend from the bottom peripheral edge upward towards the ribbon . The peripheral tabs can be rounded or chamfered at the corners. To form the tapered tabs the template also has upper lateral incisions that repeatedly extend from the top peripheral edge downward towards the ribbon . The peripheral tabs can be folded transversely outward from view to form the outer petals and the tapered tabs can be folded transversely inward from view to form the inner petals when configured to the CSGA diaphragm . The outer petals can be disposed adjacent to the lower gasket or the gland ring .

The ribbon forms the walls when the template is curled so as to join the opposite axial ends and together thereby forming a ring in which the direction of lateral incisions substantially corresponds to the cable axis. This can be accomplished for example by raising these ends and transversely outward from the view . Thus the template can be wrapped around a cable after folding the tapered tabs outward folding the rounded tabs inward and then bending and joining the ends and together thereby forming the ring of walls .

The ribbon can further be folded parallel to the incisions and to form the joints separating the walls . The lower tabs become the flanges to engage the inner annular surface of the swage tube . The upper tabs become the petals to engage the cable. If desired the template can be wrapped multiple times around a cable after folding the tapered tabs outward folding the rounded tabs inward thereby forming overlapping layers that can provide enhanced conductivity between a cable shield and the inner wall of a swage tube .

The commercial potential for the ground shield adapter described within broad and global in nature. The designs can be used for commercial as well as naval ship construction. Due to the inherent design tolerance for either SAE or metric dimensions for swage tubes the design can be utilized for both domestic and foreign ship construction. Although designed with maritime applications in mind the designs can also be utilized for general construction practices where swage tubes or breach type fittings might be required for facility cable penetrations that require grounding stabilization or weather sealing.

The United States Navy utilizes hundreds of topside components that require electrical power or signal connections to systems internal to the ship via cable. Because of the complex and system hostile EM environment the connecting cables must be protected from unwanted EM coupling to the signal or power cable. The cables therefore are protected from the EM environment by a conductive cable shield grounded via a CSGA to the ship s bulkhead.

Current CSGA technologies utilized by the Navy are difficult to manufacture due to machining difficult to install repair and replace due to design characteristics have relatively short service life due to poor environmental design and are very expensive approximately 300.00 per unit in quantity . The Navy also currently purchases CSGAs in multiple sizes due to the conventional CSGAs inability to adapt to multiple swage tube sizes or cable diameters. This significantly increases acquisition logistics and design costs. The strategic goal of the proposed design is to provide the Navy a cost efficient technology that can significantly reduce total ownership costs via acquisition maintenance and logistics across the fleet.

The exemplary embodiments utilize relatively few parts. Common components include environmental seals that also perform as stabilizing structural components for cable centering and conductive spacers that perform diaphragm deformation control functions. The grounding diaphragm or CSGA diaphragm itself is a cut stamped component made out of conductive sheeting.

The sheeting can be any useable conductive material depending on application such as brass copper stainless steel aluminum or carbon impregnated sheeting. The required thickness of the sheeting depends on the design. The exemplary designs also utilize all components of the stuffing tube assembly. This includes the brass gland nut used as an integrating component and currently unused for shielded cable applications due to design characteristics of conventionally available CSGA designs. For conventional replacement operations of the CSGA assembly the gland nut may be discarded resulting in waste higher incurred costs to the Navy.

While certain features of the embodiments of the invention have been illustrated as described herein many modifications substitutions changes and equivalents will now occur to those skilled in the art. It is therefore to be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and changes as fall within the true spirit of the embodiments.

