---

title: Advertisement delivery management apparatus and advertisement delivery management method
abstract: An advertisement delivery management apparatus according to an embodiment of the present disclosure includes a prediction information storage unit, an acquisition unit and an allocation unit. The prediction information storage unit stores information including user attributes of a plurality of delivery target users predicted as future advertisement delivery destinations. The acquisition unit acquires a plurality of order requests designating user attributes and the numbers of deliveries. The allocation unit allocates the delivery target users to the plurality of order requests, on the basis of the user attributes and the numbers of deliveries designated by the plurality of order requests, such that the number of predetermined user attributes of the delivery target users who have not been allocated to the order requests is the maximum.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09524512&OS=09524512&RS=09524512
owner: YAHOO JAPAN CORPORATION
number: 09524512
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20131211
---
The present application claims priority to and incorporates by reference the entire contents of Japanese Patent Application No. 2012 281792 filed in Japan on Dec. 25 2012.

The present invention relates to an advertisement delivery management apparatus and an advertisement delivery management method.

In recent years with the rapid spread of a network such as the Internet advertisements have been actively delivered through the network. As an aspect of the delivery of the advertisements display advertising has been known which displays image or video advertisements in a predetermined space of a page hereinafter referred to as an advertisement delivery target page which is to be an advertisement delivery target.

In the display advertising advertisements are delivered to the users who have the user attributes for example sex age and interest designated by an advertiser. Therefore advertisements are effectively delivered for example see Japanese Laid open Patent Publication No. 2011 238020 .

In the delivery of the advertisements when the user who has accessed the advertisement delivery target page has the user attributes designated by the advertiser advertisements are delivered. Therefore it is preferable to predict a delivery target user who will be a future advertisement delivery destination as a future log including the user attributes and to accept an order from the advertiser on the basis of the future log.

However when the delivery target user as predicted as the future advertisement delivery destination has a plurality of user attributes in some cases it is difficult to accept a new order from the advertiser depending a method of allocating the delivery target users to an advertisement delivery order.

According to an exemplary embodiment an advertisement delivery management apparatus includes a predicted information storage unit an acquisition unit and an allocating unit. The prediction information storage unit stores information including user attributes of a plurality of delivery target users predicted as future advertisement delivery destinations. The acquisition unit acquires a plurality of order requests designating user attributes and the numbers of deliveries. The allocation unit allocates the delivery target users to the plurality of order requests on the basis of the user attributes and the numbers of deliveries designated by the plurality of order requests such that the number of predetermined user attributes of the delivery target users who have not been allocated to the order requests is the maximum.

The above and other objects features advantages and technical and industrial significance of this invention will be better understood by reading the following detailed description of presently preferred embodiments of the invention when considered in connection with the accompanying drawings.

Hereinafter an advertisement delivery management apparatus and an advertisement delivery management method according to an exemplary embodiment hereinafter referred to as an embodiment of the present disclosure will be described in detail with reference to the accompanying drawings. The advertisement delivery management apparatus and advertisement delivery management method according to the present disclosure are not limited by the embodiment. In the following description in some cases a database is described as a DB .

First an advertisement delivery management process according to the embodiment will be described. are diagrams illustrating the advertisement delivery management process according to the embodiment. The advertisement delivery management process makes it possible to appropriately allocate a delivery target user in response to an order request from an advertiser.

As illustrated in an advertisement delivery management system according to the embodiment includes an advertisement delivery management apparatus an information delivery apparatus an advertiser terminal and a user terminal . The advertisement delivery management apparatus the information delivery apparatus the advertiser terminal and the user terminal are connected to each other through a communication network . The communication network is an Internet protocol IP network such as the Internet. In practice there are a plurality of advertiser terminals and a plurality of user terminals . However illustrates one advertiser terminal and one user terminal for convenience of explanation.

The advertiser terminal is a terminal apparatus of the advertiser who wants to deliver advertisements and sends an order request to order advertisements which is desired to be delivered to the user terminal of the user with predetermined user attributes to the advertisement delivery management apparatus . Specifically the advertiser terminal transmits to the advertisement delivery management apparatus an order request including advertising information which the advertiser wants to insert into an advertisement delivery target page information on the user attributes which are designated as the delivery destination of the advertising information and information on the number of times the advertising information is delivered. Examples of the advertising information include two dimensional content and three dimensional content such as banner advertisements text advertisements and video advertisements.

The user terminal is the terminal apparatus of the user who accesses the advertisement delivery management apparatus and the information delivery apparatus . When the information delivery apparatus is accessed by the user terminal for example information delivery apparatus transmits an advertisement delivery target page such as a Web page to the user terminal . The advertisement delivery target page includes a uniform resource locator URL of the advertising information. The user terminal transmits the order request to the advertisement delivery management apparatus on the basis of the URL.

The URL of the advertising information may not be the URL of the advertisement delivery management apparatus but may be the URL of the information delivery apparatus . In this case the user terminal requests the information delivery apparatus to transmit advertising information on the basis of the URL of the advertising information. When receiving the request the information delivery apparatus requests the advertisement delivery management apparatus to transmit advertising information. The advertisement delivery management apparatus transmits advertising information corresponding to the transmission request from the information delivery apparatus to the information delivery apparatus . When receiving the advertising information from the advertisement delivery management apparatus the information delivery apparatus transmits the advertising information to the user terminal .

The advertisement delivery management apparatus performs a process of accepting an advertisement delivery order request a process of allocating user attributes to the accepted order request and a process of delivering the advertising information designated by the order request to perform processes from the reception of the advertisement delivery order to the delivery of the advertising information.

The advertisement delivery management apparatus stores information including the user attributes of a plurality of delivery target users who are predicted as future advertisement delivery destinations as a future log in a DB and performs the process of accepting the order request and the process of allocating the user attributes on the basis of the future log.

In the example illustrated in information including the user attributes of delivery target users to is stored as the future log in the DB. The delivery target user has user attributes A B and C the delivery target user has the user attribute A the delivery target user has user attributes A and C to E the delivery target user has user attributes B D and E and the delivery target user has user attributes B to D.

The advertisement delivery management apparatus acquires the order request transmitted from the advertiser terminal and allocates the delivery target users to response to the order request. As described above the order request transmitted from the advertiser terminal includes information on a user attribute hereinafter referred to as a designated user attribute which is designated as the delivery destination of advertising information and information on the number hereinafter referred to as the designated number of deliveries of times advertising information is delivered.

The advertisement delivery management apparatus performs the process of allocating the delivery target users using a plurality of order requests as a unit. Specifically the advertisement delivery management apparatus allocates the delivery target users to a plurality of order requests such that the number of predetermined user attributes of the delivery target users who have not been allocated to the order requests is the maximum on the basis of the designated user attributes and the designated number of deliveries in each of the plurality of order requests. Hereinafter in some cases the delivery target user who has not been allocated to the order request is referred to as a non allocated user.

For example as illustrated in a case is considered in which the advertiser terminal transmits to the advertisement delivery management apparatus an order request in which the designated user attributes is the attribute A and the designated number of deliveries is 2 and an order request in which the designated user attribute is the attribute D and the designated number of deliveries is 1 . In addition it is assumed that the predetermined user attributes hereinafter referred to as adequacy determining attributes are the attribute B the attribute C and the attribute D .

When the delivery target users and with the attribute A which is the designated user attribute in the order request is allocated to the order request and the delivery target user with the attribute D which is the designated user attribute in the order request is allocated to the order request the numbers of attributes A to E of the non allocated users are 1 1 0 1 and 1 respectively. Therefore the total number hereinafter referred to as a non allocation score of adequacy determining attributes attributes B to D of the non allocated users is 2 .

When the delivery target users and with the attribute A which is the designated user attribute in the order request is allocated to the order request and the delivery target user with the attribute D which is the designated user attribute in the order request is allocated to the order request the numbers of attributes A to E of the non allocated users are 1 1 2 2 and 1 respectively. Therefore the non allocation score which is the total number of adequacy determining attributes attributes B to D of the non allocated users is 5 .

When the delivery target users and are allocated to the plurality of order requests and the non allocation score is the maximum. Therefore the advertisement delivery management apparatus allocates the delivery target users and to the plurality of order requests and

As such the advertisement delivery management apparatus allocates the delivery target users to a plurality of order requests such that the non allocation score is the maximum. Since the non allocation score is the number of adequacy determining attributes of the non allocated users for example the user attributes which are frequently designated by the order requests are set as the adequacy determining attributes. In this case it is possible to increase the possibility of a future order request being accepted and prevent loss of sales opportunities.

In this embodiment the adequacy determining attributes are some user attributes among a plurality of user attributes. However all of the user attributes may be used as the adequacy determining attributes. For example when the delivery target users and are allocated to the order requests and the non allocation score is 4 . When the delivery target users and are allocated to the order requests and the non allocation score is 7 .

As such when all of the user attributes are used as the adequacy determining attributes it is possible to increase the total number of user attributes of the delivery target users which can be allocated to the order requests. Therefore in this case it is possible to increase the possibility of the future order request being accepted and prevent loss of sales opportunities.

Next the detailed structure of the advertisement delivery management apparatus which performs the above mentioned advertisement delivery management process and the detailed content of the process will be described with reference to the drawings.

The communication unit is an interface such as a network interface card NIC . The control unit transmits and receives various kinds of information to and from the advertiser terminal or the user terminal through the communication unit and the communication network . The advertising information DB the user information DB the past log DB and the future log DB are each a semiconductor memory device such as a hard disk random access memory RAM or flash memory or a storage device such as an optical disk.

The control unit is implemented by an integrated circuit such as an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or a field programmable gate array FPGA . A central processing unit CPU or a micro processing unit MPU executes a program stored in the internal storage device using the RAM as a work area to cause the control unit to function as the advertisement delivery unit the future log prediction unit the accepting unit and the allocation unit . The structure of the control unit is not limited thereto but the control unit may have any structure as long as it can perform the following information processing.

When a request to deliver advertising information is received from the user terminal the advertisement delivery unit acquires advertising information corresponding to the user attributes of the user of the user terminal from an advertising information table in the advertising information DB and transmits the acquired advertising information from the communication unit to the user terminal which is a delivery request source.

The advertisement ID is identification information which is allocated to each received order request. The user attributes are user attributes designated user attributes designated by the order request. The delivery period is the period for which the advertising information designated by the order request is delivered. The number of deliveries is the number the designated number of deliveries of times the advertising information designated by the order request is delivered. In addition the advertising information is advertising information designated by the order request.

For example for an advertisement ID O the user attribute of a delivery target is vehicle the delivery period of advertising information is from Jan. 1 2013 to Jan. 31 2013 the number of times the advertising information is delivered is 100 and the advertising information is a banner advertisement Ya . When the number of times the advertising information is delivered is greater than 100 within the delivery period of the advertising information the process of delivering advertising information in response to the order request ends.

When the user of the user terminal who has issued the advertising information delivery request has the user attribute vehicle for example the advertisement delivery unit acquires the advertising information banner advertisement Ya with the advertisement ID O from the advertising information table in the advertising information DB and transmits the acquired advertising information to the user terminal which is a delivery request source.

The user attributes of the user of the user terminal are determined on the basis of the user information table in the user information DB . is a diagram illustrating an example of the user information table stored in the user information DB . As illustrated in the user information table includes information such as a user ID psychographic attributes and demographic attributes .

The user ID is identification information for identifying the user of the user terminal . The user ID corresponds to for example user identification information which is set to a hypertext transfer protocol HTTP cookie transmitted and received between the advertisement delivery management apparatus and the user terminal .

The psychographic attributes are information indicating for example the values lifestyle character and preference of the user. The psychographic attributes are classified into for example attributes vehicle cosmetics clothes and travel . In the example illustrated in 1 is stored in each attribute when the preference of the user is relatively high and 0 is stored in each attribute in the other cases. In addition the psychographic attributes are not limited to the attributes illustrated in but may include various attributes such as economy politics baseball soccer other sports sweets a personal computer white goods and furniture.

The demographic attributes indicate demographic user attribute information. The demographic attributes are classified into for example attributes sex and age of the user. For example 1 is stored in the attribute sex illustrated in when the user is a female and 2 is stored in the attribute sex when the user is a male. The age of the user is stored in the attribute age . The demographic attributes are not limited to the attributes illustrated in but may include various attributes such as the job family structure annual income address native place and academic background of the user.

For example when the user with a user ID U illustrated in has issued an advertising information delivery request from the user terminal it is determined that the user attributes of the user are for example vehicle travel male and 21 years old . In addition for example when the user with a user ID U illustrated in has issued an advertising information delivery request from the user terminal the advertisement delivery unit determines that the user attributes of the user are clothes female and 44 years old .

The advertisement delivery unit sets the user ID of the user who has issued the advertising information delivery request in an access log table stored in the past log DB . is a diagram illustrating an example of the access log table stored in the past log DB .

As illustrated in information hereinafter referred to as a past log in some cases in which the day and time when the user of the user terminal issues the advertising information delivery request to the advertisement delivery management apparatus is associated with the user ID is set in the access log table. The advertisement delivery unit updates the access log table whenever the advertising information delivery request is issued from the user terminal .

The future log prediction unit determines a plurality of delivery target users who are predicted as the future advertisement delivery destinations on the basis of the access log table stored in the past log DB and sets the user information of the determined delivery target users in a future log table stored in the future log DB .

The delivery target ID is identification information allocated to each delivery target user. The delivery target user is a virtual user who is different from the user set in the user information table stored in the user information DB .

The allocation state is information indicating whether the delivery target user has been allocated to the order request. When the delivery target user has been allocated to the order request 1 is stored in the allocation state. When the delivery target user has not been allocated to the order request 0 is stored in the allocation state.

The psychographic attributes and the demographic attributes are the same as those in the user information table in the user information DB . The user who is set in the user information table may be presumed as the delivery target user and the delivery target ID may be used as the user ID. In this case information on the psychographic attributes and the demographic attributes can be acquired from the user information table on the basis of the user ID.

The future log prediction unit can predict the delivery target user who will be the advertisement delivery destination for a predetermined future period on the basis of for example the access log in the same period last year or the access log in the previous predetermined period. For example the future log prediction unit can presume the user who issued the advertising information delivery request for the previous month as the delivery target user for the next month.

The future log prediction unit can perform a statistical process for the past log which is set in the access log table to determine the tendency of the delivery target user who will be the future advertisement delivery destination and predict the future log on the basis of the determination result. In this case for example the future log prediction unit may determine the tendency of the delivery target user considering for example weather or temperature change information.

The future log prediction unit can set the predicted future log in the future log table. In addition the future log prediction unit may set the future log which is acquired from an external apparatus through the communication unit in the future log table.

The accepting unit determines whether to accept the order request from the advertiser terminal on the basis of the future log set in the future log table. When the accepting unit determines to accept the order request it transmits a response to the reception of the order to the advertiser terminal .

As described above the order request from the advertiser terminal includes designated information such as the designated user attributes and the designated number of deliveries. When an order request is issued from the advertiser terminal the accepting unit counts the number of non allocated users with the user attributes designated by the order request among the delivery target users set in the future log table. When the count result is equal to or greater than the designated number of deliveries in the order request the accepting unit accepts the order request from the advertiser terminal .

For example when receiving an order request indicating that the designated user attribute is vehicle and the designated number of deliveries is 100 the accepting unit counts the number of delivery target users with the attribute vehicle to which 1 is set in the future log table. When the count result is equal to or greater than 100 the accepting unit accepts the order request from the advertiser terminal . When the count result is less than 100 the accepting unit does not accept the order request from the advertiser terminal .

The accepting unit counts a combination of two or more user attributes which are designated by the order request at a frequency equal to or greater than a threshold value as one user attribute hereinafter referred to as a combined user attribute in some cases . For example when a combination of the user attributes clothes and travel is frequently designated by the order request the accepting unit counts the combination of the user attributes clothes and travel as one user attribute.

Information on the order request accepted by the accepting unit is set in the advertising information table stored in the advertising information DB . The accepting unit can determine a combination of two or more user attributes which are designated by the order request at a frequency equal to or greater than the threshold value on the basis of the advertising information table.

For example the accepting unit calculates the total number of deliveries designated by the past order request as a first sum and calculates the total number of deliveries designated by the past order request as a second sum for each combination of two or more user attributes on the basis of the advertising information table. Then the accepting unit counts as one user attribute a combination of the user attributes in which the ratio of the second sum to the first sum is equal to or greater than a predetermined threshold value.

When a combination of the user attributes vehicle and travel is frequently designated by the order request and the future log table is in the state illustrated in the user attribute of the delivery target user with a delivery target ID F is not vehicle or travel but is vehicle travel .

The combination of two or more user attributes which are designated by the order request at a frequency equal to or greater than the threshold value may not be determined by the accepting unit but may be set in the user information DB by an external apparatus.

For example when the number of non allocated users is equal to or less than a predetermined value or when the number of non allocated users with the combined user attribute is equal to or less than a predetermined value the accepting unit can divide the combined user attribute into a plurality of user attributes. Therefore it is possible to increase the total number of user attributes. As a result the possibility that the order request designating the combined user attribute will be accepted is reduced but it is possible to increase the possibility that other order requests will be accepted.

The allocation unit allocates the delivery target user set in the future log table to the order request which is accepted by the accepting unit .

Specifically the allocation unit allocates the delivery target users to a plurality of order requests on the basis of the designated user attribute and the designated number of deliveries in each of the plurality of order requests such that the number of predetermined user attributes of the delivery target users who have not been allocated to the order requests is the maximum.

The predetermined user attribute is the above mentioned adequacy determining attribute and can be set by for example the administrator hereinafter referred to as a delivery administrator of the advertisement delivery management apparatus through an operation unit not illustrated of the advertisement delivery management apparatus . The delivery administrator may set all or some of the user attributes as the adequacy determining attributes.

In addition the allocation unit performs any one of a first allocation mode a second allocation mode and a third allocation mode on the basis of the settings set by the delivery administrator through the operation unit not illustrated of the advertisement delivery management apparatus .

When the first allocation mode is set the allocation unit repeatedly performs a process hereinafter referred to as a whole process in some cases of allocating the delivery target users to all of the order requests set in the advertising information table each time the accepting unit accepts a new order request.

When the second allocation mode is set the allocation unit performs a process hereinafter referred to as a partial process in some cases of allocating the delivery target users to a newly acquired order request while maintaining the allocation of the delivery target users to the order requests.

When the third allocation mode is set the allocation unit performs the whole process at a predetermined time for example at night where the number of order requests is small while performing the partial process for a new order request.

Next the allocation process of the allocation unit will be described in detail. When there are n order requests in the advertising information table an order request Oi 1 i n i is an integer see is defined and it is assumed that the designated number of deliveries in the order request Oi is o i . When m user attribute patterns are set a user attribute pattern Pj 1 j m j is an integer is defined and it is assumed that the number of delivery target users in the user attribute pattern Pj is p j .

For example when the future log table is in the state illustrated in the user attribute pattern is a combination of the attributes vehicle cosmetics clothes and travel . For example when the attribute pattern is defined as vehicle cosmetics clothes travel . . . each attribute pattern is represented by for example 1 0 0 0 . . . 0 1 0 0 . . . and 1 1 1 0 . . . . When the number of attributes is for example six the number of user attribute patterns is 2. The user attributes which are less likely to be designated by the order request Oi may be excluded from the user attribute pattern.

The allocation unit allocates the delivery target users to a plurality of order requests O to On with linear programming such that a non allocation score KPI is the maximum using the following formulas 1 and 2 as constraint conditions. In the above mentioned formula 2 a i j is the number of delivery target users with a user attribute pattern Pj allocated to the order request Oi and c j is the number of delivery target users with a user attribute pattern Pj.

The non allocation score KPI is based on the number of delivery target users who have not been allocated to the order requests O to On and is the total number of adequacy determining attributes of the delivery target users who have not been allocated to the order requests O to On. When the number of non allocated users is p a non allocated user Fk 1 k p p is an integer is defined. When the number of adequacy determining attributes of the non allocated users Fk is f k the non allocation score KPI is calculated by the following formula 3 

When all of the user attributes are set as the adequacy determining attributes the non allocation score KPI is the total number of user attributes which is the sum of the user attributes of the delivery target users having the allocation state set to 0 in the future log table.

For example in the future log table illustrated in it is assumed that the delivery target users with delivery target IDs F F F and F have not been allocated to the order requests O to On and the other delivery target users have been allocated to the order requests O to On.

In this case as illustrated in the numbers of user attributes of the delivery target users corresponding to the delivery target IDs F F F and F are 3 4 3 and 4 respectively. Therefore as illustrated in the total number of user attributes which is the sum of the number of user attributes of the non allocated users Fk who have not been allocated to the order requests O to On is 14 3 4 3 4 and the non allocation score KPI is 14 .

In this embodiment the allocation unit calculates the total number of user attributes of the non allocated users Fk as the non allocation score KPI. However the allocation unit may calculate the total number of user attribute patterns of the non allocated users Fk as the non allocation score KPI.

For example the allocation unit can calculate the number e j of non allocated users Fk with the user attribute pattern Pj for each user attribute pattern Pj and use the sum of the number as the non allocation score KPI. For example the allocation unit can calculate the non allocation score KPI using the following formula 4 

As such the allocation unit allocates the delivery target users to a plurality of order requests O to On on the basis of the user attributes and the number of deliveries which are designated by each of the plurality of order requests O to On such that the number of predetermined user attributes of the delivery target users who have not been allocated to the order requests is the maximum.

In this way it is possible to increase choices for the allocation of the delivery target users to the order requests O to On and increase the possibility of the future order requests O to On being accepted. Therefore it is possible to prevent loss of sales opportunities.

In this embodiment an example has been described in which the allocation unit performs the allocation process with linear programming using the above mentioned formulas 1 and 2 as constraint condition such that the non allocation score KPI is the maximum. illustrates an example of the relation between the content of attributes in the user attribute pattern Pj and the number of users c j.

As illustrated in it is assumed that user attribute patterns P to P are vehicle cosmetics clothes travel vehicle travel and cosmetics clothes . In addition it is assumed that the number of delivery target users is set as illustrated in . As illustrated in it is assumed that c 1 to c 6 which are the numbers of delivery target users with the user attribute patterns are 9020 5302 2319 4287 4030 and 2900 respectively.

When the user attribute pattern is defined as vehicle cosmetics clothes travel . . . the user attribute patterns P to P are 1 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 1 1 0 0 1 and 0 1 1 0 respectively. Therefore for example the delivery target user with the user ID F illustrated in is set to 1 0 0 0 which is the user attribute pattern P and the delivery target user with the user ID F illustrated in is set to 1 0 0 1 which is the user attribute pattern P.

The allocation unit sets a i j which is the allocation of the delivery target users to the order requests with linear programming using the above mentioned formulas 1 and 2 as constraint conditions such that the non allocation score KPI is the maximum. Assuming that the relation between the content of the attributes in the user attribute pattern Pj and the number of users c j is in the state illustrated in and the advertising information table is in the state illustrated in a i j is set as illustrated in . is a diagram illustrating an example of the allocation of a i j .

In the above mentioned formula 1 the constraint conditions are that the total number of delivery target users allocated to each order request Oi is equal to the designated number of deliveries in the order request. For example in the order request O illustrated in a 1 1 to a 1 6 are set such that the designated number of deliveries o 1 is 100 and the sum of a 1 1 to a 1 6 is 100 .

In the above mentioned formula 2 the constraint conditions are that in each user attribute pattern Pj the number of delivery target users allocated to the order request Oi is not greater than the number of users c j which is the number of delivery target users with the user attribute pattern Pj. For example in the user attribute pattern P a 1 1 to a n 1 are set such that the number of users c j is 9020 and the sum of a 1 1 to a n 1 is equal to or less than 9020 as illustrated in .

When the first allocation mode is set the allocation unit repeatedly performs the whole process of allocating the delivery target users to all of the order requests set in the advertising information table each time the accepting unit accepts a new order request. In the first allocation mode all of the delivery target users set in the future log table are allocation targets.

For example it is assumed that after the delivery target users are allocated to the order requests O to O the accepting unit accepts a new order request O. In this case the allocation unit allocates a plurality of delivery target users set in the future log table to the order requests O to O using the above mentioned formulas 1 and 2 as constraint conditions such that the non allocation score KPI is maximum.

In the first allocation mode the whole process of allocating the delivery target users to all of the order requests set in the advertising information table is repeatedly performed. Therefore it is possible to appropriately allocate the delivery target users to all of the order requests.

When the second allocation mode is set the allocation unit performs the partial process of allocating the delivery target users to a newly acquired order request while maintaining the allocation of the delivery target users to the order requests. In the second allocation mode the delivery target users who have not been allocated to the order requests among the delivery target users set in the future log table are allocated to a new order request.

For example it is assumed that after the delivery target users are allocated to the order requests O to O the accepting unit accepts a new order request O. In this case the allocation unit performs the partial process of allocating the delivery target users to the order request O while maintaining the allocation of the delivery target users to the order requests O to O. That is the allocation unit allocates the delivery target users to a 11 j without changing the allocation of the delivery target users to a 1 j to a 10 j.

As such in the second allocation mode whenever the accepting unit accepts a new order request the allocation unit allocates the delivery target users to the new order request while maintaining the allocation of the delivery target users to the order requests. Therefore it is possible to reduce the load of the allocation process while appropriately allocating the delivery target users to a new order request.

When the third allocation mode is set the allocation unit performs the whole process at a predetermined time for example at night where the number of order requests is small while performing the partial process for a new order request.

In the third allocation mode whenever the accepting unit accepts a new order request the allocation unit rapidly allocates the delivery target users to the new order request. Therefore it is possible to rapidly update the future log table. As a result the accepting unit can rapidly accept the next new order request.

In the third allocation mode similarly to the first allocation mode the allocation unit repeatedly performs the whole process of allocating the delivery target users to all of the order requests set in the advertising information table. Therefore it is possible to appropriately allocate the delivery target users to all of the order requests.

As such in the third allocation mode whenever the accepting unit accepts a new order request the allocation unit allocates the delivery target users using the partial process. In addition the allocation unit reallocates the delivery target users at a predetermined time using the whole process. Therefore it is possible to rapidly and accurately allocate the delivery target users to the order requests.

The delivery administrator can use the operation unit not illustrated of the advertisement delivery management apparatus to set the time when the whole process is performed in the third allocation mode to the allocation unit . For example the delivery administrator can set the allocation unit such that the whole process is performed at a predetermined time for example 2 a.m. . The delivery administrator can set the allocation unit such that the whole process is performed whenever the number of new order requests reaches a predetermined value or the sum of the number of users in a new order request reaches a predetermined value.

In the above described embodiment the linear programming is used to allocate the delivery target users to a plurality of order requests such that the number of adequacy determining attributes of the delivery target users who have not been allocated to the order requests is the maximum. However methods other than the linear programming may be used. That is the allocation method is not limited to the linear programming but any method may be used as long as it can allocate the delivery target users to a plurality of order requests on the basis of the designated user attributes and the designated number of deliveries in each order request such that the number of adequacy determining attributes of the delivery target users who have not been allocated to the order requests is the maximum.

Next the procedure of an advertisement delivery management process of the advertisement delivery management apparatus according to the embodiment will be described. is a diagram illustrating an example of the flow of the advertisement delivery management process of the advertisement delivery management apparatus according to the embodiment.

As illustrated in when an order request is received from the advertiser terminal the control unit of the advertisement delivery management apparatus determines whether to accept the order request from the advertiser terminal on the basis of the future log set in the future log table Step S . For example the control unit counts the number of user attributes designated by the order request among the user attributes of the non allocated users set in the future log table. When the count result is equal to or greater than the number of deliveries designated by the order request the control unit determines to accept the order request.

When the control unit determines to accept the order request from the advertiser terminal Yes in Step S the control unit sets information included in the order request in the advertising information table and updates the advertising information table Step S . The information included in the order request includes for example user attributes a delivery period the number of deliveries and advertising information. The information is set in the advertising information table.

Then the control unit performs a process of allocating the delivery target users Step S . The allocation process allocates the delivery target users with the user attributes designated by the order request to the order request and corresponds to for example Steps S to S illustrated in which will be described in detail below.

Then the control unit updates the future log table on the basis of the result of the allocation process in Step S Step S . Specifically the control unit sets to 1 the allocation state of the delivery target user allocated to the order request among the delivery target users set in the future log table and sets to 0 the allocation state of the delivery target user who has not been allocated to the order request.

Then the control unit transmits a response to the reception of the order to the advertiser terminal through the communication unit Step S and ends the advertisement delivery management process. On the other hand when the control unit determines not to accept the order request from the advertiser terminal in Step S No in Step S the control unit transmits an order rejection response to the advertiser terminal through the communication unit Step S and ends the advertisement delivery management process.

Next an example of the allocation process in Step S will be described in detail with reference to . is a diagram illustrating an example of the flow of the allocation process of the advertisement delivery management apparatus according to the embodiment.

As illustrated in when the process of allocating the delivery target users starts the control unit of the advertisement delivery management apparatus determines whether the allocation mode is set to the first allocation mode Step S . When it is determined that the allocation mode is set to the first allocation mode Yes in Step S the control unit allocates the delivery target users using the whole process Step S .

When it is determined in Step S that the allocation mode is not to the first allocation mode No in Step S the control unit determines whether the allocation mode is set to the second allocation mode Step S . When it is determined that the allocation mode is set to the second allocation mode Yes in Step S the control unit allocates the delivery target users to a new order request using the partial process Step S .

When it is determined in Step S that the allocation mode is not set to the second allocation mode No in Step S the control unit determines that the allocation mode is set to the third allocation mode and allocates the delivery target users to a new order request using the partial process Step S .

When the process in Step S ends the control unit determines whether the number of order requests accepted after the previous whole process reaches a predetermined value Step S . When it is determined that the number of order requests reaches the predetermined value Yes in Step S the control unit allocates the delivery target users using the whole process Step S .

When it is determined that the number of order requests does not reach the predetermined value No in Step S or when the process in Steps S S and S ends the control unit ends the process of allocating the delivery target users.

In the above described embodiment whenever an order request is issued from the advertiser terminal the accepting unit performs the accepting process. However for example when the user attributes designated by the order request do not overlap each other the accepting unit may perform the accepting process in a unit of plurality of order requests. In addition for example in the case in which the user attributes designated by the order request do not overlap each other the accepting unit may perform the accepting process when the user attributes designated by the order request overlap each other.

In the above described embodiment for ease of understanding the target period for which the future advertisement delivery destination is predicted is equal to the delivery period of the order request. However the target period for which the future advertisement delivery destination is predicted may not be equal to the delivery period of the order request. For example the target period for which the future advertisement delivery destination is predicted may be a day and the delivery period of the order request may be a day. In this case the allocation unit can perform the process of allocating the delivery target users on a daily basis.

In the above described embodiment the process is performed for the order request. However the control unit may accept a cancel request from the advertiser terminal . In this case the allocation unit performs the whole process for a new advertisement delivery cancel request accepted by the accepting unit such that the non allocation score KPI is the maximum.

In the above described embodiment the first to third allocation modes are set by the delivery administrator. However the first to third allocation modes may be changed depending on the load state of the advertisement delivery management apparatus . For example when the processing load of the advertisement delivery management apparatus is large the control unit performs the second allocation mode. When the processing load of the advertisement delivery management apparatus is small the control unit performs the first allocation mode.

In the above described embodiment the control unit performs the whole process in the first and third allocation modes using all order requests as a unit of processing. However the control unit may perform the whole process using the order requests in which the sum of the designated number of deliveries is equal to a predetermined value as a unit of processing.

In addition the control unit may allocate the delivery target users using a different allocation method until the number of non allocated users is equal to or less than a predetermined value and perform the first to third allocation modes for the non allocated users when the number of non allocated users is equal to or less than the predetermined value. In the different allocation method the control unit allocates the delivery target users to a new advertisement delivery order request such that a reduction in the total number of user attributes of the delivery target users who have not been allocated to the advertisement delivery order request among a plurality of delivery target users is the minimum. The use of the different allocate method makes it possible to reduce the processing load as compared to the first to third allocation modes.

In the above described embodiment the control unit allocates the delivery target users to a plurality of order requests such that the non allocation score which is calculated on the basis of the non allocated users is the maximum. However the control unit may perform the allocation process such that the non allocation score is the maximum. For example the control unit may allocate the delivery target users to a plurality of order requests such that an allocation score which is calculated on the basis of the delivery target users allocated to the order requests is the minimum. The allocation score is the total number of delivery target users who have a predetermined user attribute and have been allocated to the order requests. For example the non allocation score may be calculated by subtracting the allocation score from the total number of delivery target users with a predetermined user attribute.

In the above described embodiment the whole process allocates the delivery target users to all of the order requests set in the advertising information table. However the whole process may allocate the delivery target users to some of the order requests. For example whenever the accepting unit accepts a new order request the allocation unit allocates the delivery target users to a predetermined number of recently accepted order requests among the order requests which are set in the advertising information table. In this case the allocation unit allocates the delivery target users to all of the order requests set in the advertising information table at a predetermined time for example 2 a.m. .

In the advertisement delivery management apparatus according to the embodiment the future log DB an example of a prediction information storage unit stores information including the user attributes of a plurality of delivery target users who are predicted as the future advertisement delivery destinations. The accepting unit an example of an acquisition unit acquires a plurality of order requests designating the user attributes and the numbers of deliveries. The allocation unit an example of an allocation unit allocates the delivery target users to a plurality of order requests on the basis of the user attributes and the numbers of deliveries designated by the plurality of order requests such that the number of adequacy determining attributes predetermined user attributes of the delivery target users who have not been allocated to the order requests is the maximum.

According to this structure it is possible to appropriately allocate the delivery target users to an advertisement delivery order and prevent a reduction in the possibility of a future advertisement delivery order request being accepted. Therefore it is possible to prevent loss of sales opportunities.

In the advertisement delivery management apparatus according to the embodiment the allocation unit allocates the delivery target users to a new order request on the basis of the user attributes and the numbers of deliveries designated by a plurality of order requests including the new order request acquired by the accepting unit while maintaining the allocation of the delivery target users to the order requests.

According to this structure it is possible to reduce the load of the allocation process while appropriately allocating the delivery target users to a new order request.

In the advertisement delivery management apparatus according to the embodiment whenever the accepting unit acquires a new order request the allocation unit allocates the delivery target users to a plurality of order requests including the new order request.

According to this structure it is possible to appropriately allocate the delivery target users to all order requests and accurately prevent a reduction in the possibility of a future advertisement delivery order request being accepted.

In the advertisement delivery management apparatus according to the embodiment the allocation unit reallocates the delivery target users to a plurality of order requests having the delivery target users allocated thereto at a predetermined time.

According to this structure it is possible to rapidly and accurately allocate the delivery target users to the order requests.

In the advertisement delivery management apparatus according to the embodiment the allocation unit allocates the delivery target users using a combination of two or more user attributes which are designated by the order request at a frequency equal to or greater than a threshold value as one user attribute.

According to this structure it is possible to allocate a combination of two or more user attributes which are designated by the order request at a frequency equal to or greater than a threshold value to the order request. Therefore it is possible to increase the possibility of the future advertisement delivery order being accepted and prevent loss of sales opportunities.

The advertisement delivery management apparatus may be implemented by a plurality of server computers. In addition the structure of the advertisement delivery management apparatus may be flexibly changed depending on the functions. For example an external platform may be called by an application programming interface API or network computing and then executed to implement the advertisement delivery management apparatus . The advertisement delivery management apparatus and the information delivery apparatus may be implemented by one server computer.

According to the embodiment it is possible to provide an advertisement delivery management apparatus and an advertisement delivery management method which can appropriately allocate delivery target users to advertisement delivery orders.

Although the invention has been described with respect to specific embodiments for a complete and clear disclosure the appended claims are not to be thus limited but are to be construed as embodying all modifications and alternative constructions that may occur to one skilled in the art that fairly fall within the basic teaching herein set forth.

