---

title: Nuclear sulfated oxysterol, potent regulator of lipid homeostasis, for therapy of hypercholesterolemia, hypertriglycerides, fatty liver diseases, and atherosclerosis
abstract: The sulfated oxysterol 5-cholesten-3β, 25-diol 3-sulphate, a nuclear cholesterol metabolite that decreases lipid biosynthesis and increases cholesterol secretion and degradation, is provided as an agent to lower intracellular and serum cholesterol and/or triglycerides, and to prevent or treat lipid accumulation-associated inflammation and conditions associated with such inflammation. Methods which involve the use of this sulfated oxysterol to treat conditions associated with high cholesterol and/or high triglycerides and/or inflammation (e.g. hypercholesterolemia, hypertriglyceridemia, non-alcoholic fatty liver diseases, atherosclerosis, etc.) are also provided.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09321802&OS=09321802&RS=09321802
owner: Virginia Commonwealth University
number: 09321802
owner_city: Richmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130214
---
This application is a continuation in part CIP of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 739 330 filed Apr. 24 2007 and claims benefit of U.S. provisional patent application 61 154 063 filed Feb. 20 2009. U.S. Ser. No. 11 739 330 is a national stage CIP claiming benefit of International patent application PCT US2005 033874 filed on Sep. 21 2005 which in turn claims benefit of U.S. Provisional Application 60 621 537 filed on Oct. 25 2004. The complete contents of each of these applications are herein incorporated by reference.

This invention was made with government support under contract numbers R01 HL078898 and P01 DK38030 awarded by the National Institutes of Health. The government has certain rights in the invention.

The invention generally relates to lipid lowering therapies. In particular the invention provides a nuclear cholesterol metabolite 5 cholesten 3 25 diol 3 sulphate that decreases lipid biosynthesis and increases cholesterol secretion and degradation and is thus useful for the treatment and prevention of hypercholesterolemia hypertriglyceridemia atherosclerosis and conditions related to fat accumulation and inflammation e.g. nonalcoholic fatty liver disease NAFLD and atherosclerosis .

Cholesterol is used by the body for the manufacture and repair of cell membranes and the synthesis of steroid hormones and vitamin D and is transformed to bile acids in the liver. There are both exogenous and endogenous sources of cholesterol. The average American consumes about 450 mg of cholesterol each day and produces an additional 500 to 1 000 mg in the liver and other tissues. Another source is the 500 to 1 000 mg of biliary cholesterol that is secreted into the intestine daily about 50 percent is reabsorbed enterohepatic circulation .

High serum lipid levels hypercholesterolemia and hypertriglyceridemia are associated with the accumulation of cholesterol in arterial walls and can result in NAFLD and atherosclerosis. The plaques that characterize atherosclerosis inhibit blood flow and promote clot formation and can ultimately cause death or severe disability via heart attacks and or stroke. A number of therapeutic agents for the treatment of hyperlipidemia have been developed and are widely prescribed by physicians. Unfortunately only about 35 of patients are responsive to the currently available therapies.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease NAFLD is the most common liver disease in the United States. This condition is associated with obesity type II adult onset diabetes sedentary lifestyle and diets high in fat. The earlier stage of NAFLD fatty liver is potentially reversible when proper treatment steps are taken. However left unchecked it can progress to inflammation of liver cells nonalcoholic steatohepatitis or NASH which is much more difficult to treat. Without treatment NASH can result in irreversible scarring of liver tissue steatonecrosis with the potential to cause cirrhosis liver failure and liver cancer.

There is an ongoing need to develop agents and methodologies to decrease intracellular and serum lipid levels and to prevent or treat disease conditions involving the inflammation caused by elevated lipid levels.

The present invention provides a novel sulfated oxysterol 5 cholesten 3 25 diol 3 sulphate with potent serum lipid lowering properties. 5 Cholesten 3 25 diol 3 sulphate is a nuclear sterol metabolite that decreases lipid biosynthesis and increases cholesterol secretion and degradation bile acid synthesis . The increase in cholesterol degradation and decrease in lipid synthesis can lead to lower levels of intracellular and serum lipid levels. Thus the sulfated oxysterol is useful for preventing or treating diseases associated with elevated lipid levels such as hypercholesterolemia hypertriglyceridemia gallstones cholestatic liver disease atherosclerosis NAFLD NASH etc.

It is an object of this invention to provide a substantially purified 5 cholesten 3 25 diol 3 sulphate having the following chemical formula 

It is a further object of the invention to provide a lipid lowering composition. The composition comprises 5 cholesten 3 25 diol 3 sulphate and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.

It is a further object of the invention to provide a method for lowering serum lipids levels such as cholesterol and triglyceride levels in a patient in need thereof. The method comprises the step of administering 5 cholesten 3 25 diol 3 sulphate to the patient in an amount sufficient to lower serum lipid levels e.g. cholesterol and triglyceride levels in the patient.

The invention further provides a method to treat or prevent pathological conditions associated with high serum lipids e.g. cholesterol and triglyceride levels in a patient in need thereof. The method comprises the step of administering 5 cholesten 3 25 diol 3 sulphate to the patient in an amount sufficient to lower serum lipid levels in the patient and to prevent or treat the pathological condition. The pathological condition is for example hypercholesterolemia hypertriglyceridemia atherosclerosis or NAFLD.

The invention further provides a method of preventing or treating inflammation caused by or associated with lipid accumulation or conditions or diseases associated with lipid accumulated inflammation in a patient in need thereof. The method comprises the step of administering 5 cholesten 3 25 diol 3 sulphate to the patient in an amount sufficient to prevent or treat the inflammation or the condition associated with inflammation in the patient. In one embodiment the conditions associated with inflammation are non alcoholic fat liver diseases and atherosclerosis.

The invention also provides a method of decreasing lipid synthesis in a patient in need thereof. The method comprises the step of administering 5 cholesten 3 25 diol 3 sulphate to the patient in an amount sufficient to decrease lipid synthesis in the patient.

The invention further provides a method of increasing cholesterol secretion or degradation in cells. The method comprises the step of increasing a level of 5 cholesten 3 25 diol 3 sulphate in the cells. The method may be carried out by exposing the cells to 5 cholesten 3 25 diol 3 sulphate.

Disordered lipid metabolism and inflammatory responses play important roles in the pathogenesis of many fatal diseases including atherosclerosis and nonalcoholic fatty liver diseases NAFLD . The two hit theory is widely accepted for explaining the occurrence and development of the diseases. The first hit is the initial intracellular lipid accumulation whilst the second hit is inflammation and injury. Therefore decreasing intracellular lipid levels and repressing the inflammatory response is the key to developing a new generation of therapeutic agents against these devastating diseases.

Recently we have discovered the novel nuclear regulatory oxysterol 5 cholesten 3 25 diol 3 sulphate and elucidated its metabolic pathway and studied its role in lipid metabolism and inflammation. The oxysterol down regulates key enzymes involved in lipid biosynthesis and subsequently decreases intracellular lipid levels by blocking the activation of liver oxysterol receptor LXR sterol regulatory element binding protein signaling pathway. On the other hand oxysterol decreases pro inflammatory cytokine expression and secretion and represses inflammatory response by activating peroxisome proliferation activator receptor gamma PPAR and PPAR I B NF B signaling pathway in macrophages and hepatocytes. A large body of experimental evidence has demonstrated that the oxysterol plays an important role in both hits .

Most importantly in vivo experimental studies showed that only one administration of the oxysterol decreases serum cholesterol and triglyceride by 20 40 and significantly increases HDL. Small molecule PPAR agonists have been used for therapy of diabetes for a couple of decades and small molecule LXR agonists have been tested for therapy of hypercholesterolemia for couple of years. However these agonists inevitably carry serious side effects. The new oxysterol a naturally occurring PPAR agonist and LXRs antagonist has been shown to inhibit cholesterol and lipid biosynthesis in both hepatocytes and macrophages via LXR SREBP and repress inflammatory responses via PPAR I B NF B signaling pathway. Therefore this naturally occurring oxysterol serves as a new class of medication for the treatment and the prevention of atherosclerosis fatty liver diabetes and inflammatory diseases.

Both in vivo and in vitro data demonstrated that nuclear oxysterol increases nuclear PPAR and decreases nuclear LXR levels in hepatocytes and macrophages. The nuclear oxysterol can decrease not only intracellular lipid levels but also repress the inflammatory response. Therefore the therapeutic concept of nuclear oxysterol represents a new approach to treating and preventing fatal diseases such as atherosclerosis and nonalcoholic fatty liver diseases.

The present invention is based on the discovery of 5 cholesten 3 25 diol 3 sulphate 25HC3S a novel sulfated oxysterol with potent lipid e.g. cholesterol and triglyceride lowering properties. The chemical structure of the sulfated oxysterol is as follows 

This sulfated oxysterol is a nuclear cholesterol metabolite that decreases cholesterol and triglyceride levels in serum. The compound increases cholesterol secretion by increasing expression of cholesterol transporters in hepatocytes. The increase in cholesterol secretion and degradation ultimately leads to lower levels of serum cholesterol and triglycerides. Without being bound by theory it appears that the sulfated oxysterol is made in the mitochondrion and translocates to the nucleus of the cell where it acts to up regulate genes involved in cholesterol and triglyceride metabolism. 5 cholesten 3 25 diol 3 sulphate is thus useful for preventing or treating diseases associated with elevated cholesterol hypercholesterolemia and triglycerides hypertriglyceridemia such as hyperlipidemia atherosclerosis coronary heart disease stroke non alcoholic fatty liver diseases etc. This sulfated oxysterol is especially suitable for in vivo use because it is an authentic natural compound that is biosynthesized in vivo by hydroxylation and sulfation of cholesterol. Thus 5 cholesten 3 25 diol 3 sulphate should have few or no toxic side effects when administered to patients. In addition the invention provides methods of preparing and administering 5 cholesten 3 25 diol 3 sulphate.

Example 6 shows that 5 cholesten 3 25 diol 3 sulphate also inhibits inflammation. Without being bound by theory it appears that 25HC3S acts in macrophages as a PPAR activator and suppresses inflammatory responses via PPAR I B NF B signaling pathway. 25HC3S appears to attenuate the inflammatory response by increasing I B expression and decreasing I B ubiquitination and degradation thus exerting its effect through the PPAR I B NFB signaling pathway. As such this compound is also useful for treating conditions that are caused or exacerbated by inflammation particularly inflammation caused by lipid accumulation in cells such as arthrosclerosis and fatty liver diseases.

The compound of the invention will be provided in a substantially purified form for use in the methods of the invention. By substantially purified we mean that the sulfated oxysterol is provided in a form that is at least about 75 preferably at least about 80 more preferably at least about 90 and most preferably at least about 95 or more free from other chemical species e.g. other macromolecules such as proteins or peptides nucleic acids lipids and other cholesterol related species e.g. other cholesterol derivatives such as cholesterol metabolites chemically modified forms of cholesterol such as various other hydroxylated cholesterol species etc. . In one embodiment of the invention the sulfated oxysterol of the invention may be isolated and purified from living cells. One embodiment of this method is described in Example 1 in the Examples section below. However those of skill in the art will recognize that in order to generate larger quantities of the sulfated oxysterol the compound may also be synthesized either by synthetic chemical means or by methods which involve the use of recombinant DNA technology e.g. by using cloned enzymes to carry out suitable modifications of cholesterol . An exemplary synthesis scheme for 5 cholesten 3 25 diol 3 sulphate is as follows A mixture of 25 hydroxycholesterol 0.1 mmol and sulfur trioxide triethyl amine complex 0.12 mmol in dry pyridine was stirred at room temperature for 2 hrs. The solvent was evaporated at 40 C. under nitrogen stream and the pellets were dissolved in 500 ul of alkalined CHOH pH 8.0. The sodium 5 cholesten 3b 25 diol 3 sulfate was purified by flash chromatography to afford the product as a white solid.

The methods of the invention are useful for the treatment or prevention of conditions associated with high levels of cholesterol and triglyceride hyperlipidemia . Such conditions may be either caused or exacerbated by high cholesterol and triglyceride and include but are not limited to hyperlipidemia atherosclerosis heart disease stroke Alzheimer s gallstone diseases cholestatic liver diseases non alcoholic fatty liver disease NAFLD etc. As used herein NAFLD is intended to encompass early stages of the diseases e.g. fat accumulation in liver cells stages in which the fatty liver cells become inflamed e.g. NASH or hepatitis etc. The compound is also useful to treat inflammation or conditions caused or exacerbated by inflammation for example atherosclerosis inflammatory bowel diseases and diabetes e.g. type 2 adult onset diabetes . By treat we mean that a disease condition has already developed and the methods of the invention are used to ameliorate symptoms of the disease condition either to stop or decrease progression of the disease or to reverse symptoms of the disease either partially or fully. Alternatively by prevent we mean that the compounds of the present invention may be administered to patients prophylactically prior to the development of disease symptoms e.g. to one who has high cholesterol but has not yet developed atherosclerosis or to one who does not yet have high cholesterol but is at high risk for developing high cholesterol e.g. as determined by genetic factors family history etc. or to a patient diagnosed with fatty liver disease who is at risk of developing NASH or other conditions associated with high lipids fat accumulation in cells etc.

Those of skill in the art will recognize that the phrases high lipid level high cholesterol level and high triglyceride level generally relate to cholesterol levels in serum in the range of about 200 mg dl or more and triglyceride levels in serum greater than about 150 mg dl. A determination of high cholesterol or high triglyceride is typically made by a health professional such as a physician and the established meaning of high levels may vary somewhat from professional to professional. Further the precise definition may vary somewhat depending on the state of the art e.g. on findings from studies which investigate the relationship between lipid levels and diseases. Nevertheless those of skill in the art will be able to identify suitable candidates for administration of the sulfated oxysterol of the present invention. By lowering lipid levels or lowering triglyceride levels or lowering cholesterol levels we mean that the level of free serum lipid cholesterol triglyceride in a patient is decreased by at least about 10 to 30 and preferably at least about 30 to 50 and more preferably at least about 50 to 70 and most preferably at least about 70 to about 100 or more in comparison to the level of lipid in the patient prior to administration of the sulfated oxysterol. Alternatively the extent of the decrease may be determined by comparison to similar untreated control individuals to whom the compound is not administered. Those of skill in the art are familiar with such determinations e.g. the use of controls or the measurement of lipid levels in the blood before and after administration of an agent that lowers lipids.

Implementation of the methods of the invention will generally involve identifying patients suffering from or at risk for developing conditions associated with high lipids and administering the compound of the present invention in an acceptable form by an appropriate route. The exact dosage to be administered may vary depending on the age gender weight and overall health status of the individual patient as well as the precise etiology of the disease. However in general for administration in mammals e.g. humans dosages in the range of from about 0.1 to about 100 g or more of compound per kg of body weight per 24 hr. and preferably about 0.1 to about 50 g of compound per kg of body weight per 24 hr. and more preferably about 0.1 to about 10 g of compound per kg of body weight per 24 hr. are effective.

Administration may be oral or parenteral including intravenously intramuscularly subcutaneously intradermal injection intraperitoneal injection etc. or by other routes e.g. transdermal sublingual oral rectal and buccal delivery inhalation of an aerosol etc. . In a preferred embodiment administration is oral. Further administration of the compound may be carried out as a single mode of therapy or in conjunction with other therapies e.g. other cholesterol lowering drugs exercise and diet regimens etc.

The compounds may be administered in the pure form or in a pharmaceutically acceptable formulation including suitable elixirs binders and the like generally referred to a carriers or as pharmaceutically acceptable salts e.g. alkali metal salts such as sodium potassium calcium or lithium salts ammonium etc. or other complexes. It should be understood that the pharmaceutically acceptable formulations include liquid and solid materials conventionally utilized to prepare both injectable dosage forms and solid dosage forms such as tablets and capsules and aerosolized dosage forms. In addition the compounds may be formulated with aqueous or oil based vehicles. Water may be used as the carrier for the preparation of compositions e.g. injectable compositions which may also include conventional buffers and agents to render the composition isotonic. Other potential additives and other materials preferably those which are generally regarded as safe GRAS include colorants flavorings surfactants TWEEN oleic acid etc. solvents stabilizers elixirs and binders or encapsulants lactose liposomes etc . Solid diluents and excipients include lactose starch conventional disintegrating agents coatings and the like. Preservatives such as methyl paraben or benzalkium chloride may also be used. Depending on the formulation it is expected that the active composition will consist of about 1 to about 99 of the composition and the vehicular carrier will constitute about 1 to about 99 of the composition. The pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention may include any suitable pharmaceutically acceptable additives or adjuncts to the extent that they do not hinder or interfere with the therapeutic effect of the sulfated oxysterol.

The administration of the compound of the present invention may be intermittent or at a gradual or continuous constant or controlled rate to a patient. In addition the time of day and the number of times per day that the pharmaceutical formulation is administered may vary and are best determined by a skilled practitioner such as a physician. Further the effective dose can vary depending upon factors such as the mode of delivery gender age and other conditions of the patient as well as the extent or progression of the disease condition being treated. The compounds may be provided alone or in combination with other medications or treatment modalities.

Sterol ligands play key roles in the maintenance of lipid homeostasis. The present study has identified a novel regulatory nuclear sulfated oxysterol which is generated in mitochondria translocates to the nucleus and upregulates the rate of bile acid synthesis. At forty eight hrs after infection with recombinant adenovirus encoding a mitochondria cholesterol transport protein StarD1 in primary rat hepatocytes bile acid synthesis increased by 5 fold. Concurrently C oxysterol derivatives with retention time at 11.50 min in HPLC elution profile was dramatically increased both in the mitochondria and in the nucleus but not in culture media. The oxysterol product could be extracted into the chloroform phase from the methanol water phase after sulfatase treatment and had the same physical properties as 25 hydroxycholesterol. LC MS MS analysis showed the nuclear oxysterol with a molecular ion m z 481 in the Q1 full scan spectrum and the presence of fragment ions at m z 59 80 97 and 123 in its product scan spectrum. Thus the nuclear oxyserol derivative can be characterized as 5 cholesten 3 25 diol 3 sulphate. The addition of nuclear extract from the cells overexpressing StarD1 or the addition of the purified oxysterol to primary rat hepatocytes significantly increased the rates of bile acid synthesis 3.5 fold suggesting this oxysterol derivative is an active regulator. These results provide evidence for a new regulatory pathway by which a novel potent regulatory nuclear sulfated oxysterol is generated in mitochondria translocates to the nucleus and upregulates bile acid synthesis.

The biotransformation of cholesterol to primary bile acids occurs via two main pathways in hepatocytes 1 . The neutral pathway is considered to be the major pathway at least in humans and rats 2 . In this pathway the sterol nucleus is modified before the side chain beginning with hydroxylation of cholesterol at the 7a position. This reaction is catalyzed by cholesterol 7 hydroxylase CYP7A1 the first and rate limiting step of this pathway. The ability to lower plasma cholesterol levels via the pharmacological control of CYP7A1 expression represents a therapeutic approach that has been in use for the last 30 years and is still of intense research interest. Multiple negative and positive modulators of CYP7A1 transcription have been identified both in tissue culture systems and in vivo 3 and many of these modulators are oxysterols such as hydroxy cholesterol molecules and bile acids. They function by activating nuclear receptors such as liver X receptor LXR and farnesoid X receptor FXR which in turn regulate the expression of regulatory genes involved in bile acid biosynthesis such as CYP7A1 and sterol 12 hydroxylase CYP8B1 the enzyme specific for cholic acid synthesis. Oxysterols are also key regulatory molecules for the expression of many other genes involved in the homeostasis of cholesterol and other lipids such as 3 hydroxy 3 methyl glutaryl coenzyme A HMG CoA reductase low density lipoprotein LDL receptor some ATP binding cassette transporters like the ABCA1 and ABCG8 and many others. They function by modulating the activity of either nuclear receptors or other transcriptional factors such as the sterol regulatory binding proteins SREBPs 4 6 . Thus characterizing endogenous synthesized oxysterols and their mechanism of action is critical for a better understanding of lipid homeostasis. The initial step in the acidic pathway is catalyzed by the enzyme mitochondrial sterol 27 hydroxylase CYP27A1 . The oxysterol intermediates of the acidic pathway such as 25 or 27 hydroxycholesterol have been shown in vitro to be potent regulators in cholesterol homeostasis 7 . Increased CYP27A1 activity in peripheral tissues may both down regulate cholesterol synthesis through the SREBP pathway and enhance the efflux of cholesterol and its elimination via LXR 8 . However the physiological and authentic in vivo LXR ligand is unknown 9 .

We have recently found that overexpression of steroidogenic acute regulatory protein StarD1 a protein which facilitates cholesterol transport to the mitochondria dramatically increases cholesterol transport into mitochondria the hydroxylation of cholesterol to oxysterol and cholesterol catabolism to bile acids both in primary hepatocytes in culture and in vivo 10 11 . This suggests that cholesterol delivery to the mitochondria where the enzyme CYP27A 1 is localized is the rate determining step for bile acid synthesis via the acidic pathway. Subsequently StarD1 was found in isolated hepatocytes 12 . Overexpression of StarD1 in vivo increases bile acid synthesis not only to the same level as overexpression of CYP7A1 but also produces a similar composition of bile acids in mouse bile in vivo 11 . Thus it is reasonable to hypothesize that potent oxysterol molecule s might be generated in the mitochondria thereby regulating bile acid synthesis and playing an important role in maintenance of intracellular cholesterol homeostasis.

To test this hypothesis a recombinant adenovirus encoding StarD1 was used to overexpress StarD1 in primary rat hepatocytes in order to increase bile acid synthesis. In this study we present evidence for previously unappreciated sulfated oxysterols in the nucleus of cells infected with the StarD1 adenovirus. The chemical structure of the most abundant nuclear oxysterol was characterized by HPLC Triple Quadrupole LC MS MS enzymatic digestion and TLC analysis and was identified as 5 cholesten 3 25 diol 3 sulphate. We also provide evidence for a potential function s of this newly identified nuclear oxysterol in cholesterol catabolism.

The abbreviations used are CYP8B1 sterol 12 hydroxylase CYP27A1 cholesterol 27 hydroxylase CMV cytomegalovirus CYP7A1 cytochrome P450 7 hydroxylase FXR farnesil X receptor SRE sterol regulatory element SREBP sterol regulatory binding protein HMG CoA 3 hydroxy 3 methylglutaryl coenzyme A Q RT PCR quantitative reverse transcription PCR.

Cell culture reagents and supplies were purchased from GIBCO BRL Grand Island N.Y. . C Cholesterol and H 25 Hydroxycholesterol were purchased from New England Nuclear Boston Mass. . C 27 Hydroxycholesterol was prepared as previously described 13 . Cyclodextrin was purchased from Cyclodextrin Technologies Development Inc. Gainsville Fla. . Silica gel thin layer chromatography plates LK6 D were from Whatman Clifton N.J. . Silica gel 1B TLC sheets were purchased from VWR Bridgeport N.J. . All other reagents were from Sigma Chemical Co St. Louis Mo. unless otherwise indicated.

The adenovirus construct used in this study was obtained through the Massey Cancer Center Shared Resource Facility of the Virginia Commonwealth University as previously described 14 .

RNA was isolated and CYP7A1 was quantified using Northern blot assays 20 g of total RNA as previously described 15 .

Primary rat hepatocyte cultures prepared as previously described 16 were plated on 150 mm tissue culture dishes 2.5 10cells in Williams E medium containing dexamethasone 0.1 M . Cells were maintained in the absence of thyroid hormone. Twenty four hrs after plating culture medium was removed and 2.5 ml of fresh medium was added. Cells were then infected with recombinant adenovirus encoding either the StarD1 Ad CMV StarD1 or the CYP7A1 Ad CMV CYP7A1 cDNAs in front of the human cytomegalovirus promoter CMV or no cDNA as a control virus. The viruses were allowed to incubate for at least 2 hrs in minimal culture medium with gentle shaking of the plates every 15 min. After 2 hrs of infection unbound virus was removed replaced with 20 ml of fresh medium and 2.5 Ci of C cholesterol was added. After 48 hrs cells were then harvested and processed for nuclei isolation as described 17 with minor modification . Briefly cells were disrupted by Dounce homogenization in buffer A 10 mM HEPES KOH at pH 7.6 1.5 mM MgCl 10 mM KCl 0.5 mM dithiothreitol 1 mM sodium EDTA 1 mM EGTA and spun at 1 000 g for 10 min. The nuclear pellet was further fractionated by resuspension in 2.5 ml of a 1 1 mixture of buffer A and buffer B 2.4 M Sucrose 15 mM KCl 2 mM sodium EDTA 0.15 mM spermine 0.15 mM spermidine 0.5 mM dithiothreitol and centrifuged at 100 000 g for 1 hr at 4 C. through a 1 ml cushion of 3 7 mixture of buffer A and B. The washed nuclear pellet was resuspended in buffer A containing 0.5 v v Nonidet P 40 and centrifuged at 1000 g for 10 min at 4 C. The supernatant is designated as nuclear attached membrane fraction C and the pellets as purified nuclei fraction D .

The purified nuclei Fraction D were resuspended and digested by 2 mg ml of DNase I in 50 mM of acetic buffer pH 5.0 10 mM MgClat 37 C. for 2 hrs. After centrifugation at 10 000 g for 20 min the supernatant was designed as inner nuclear membrane fraction E . The pellets were further digested by 2 mg ml of proteinase K in phosphate buffered saline solution PBS at 50 C. for 16 hrs and the solution was designed as nuclear protease digests fraction F . Total lipids in each fraction were extracted by adding 3.3 volumes of chloroform methanol 1 1 and separated into two phases methanol water and chloroform phases as previously described 18 . The counts of C cholesterol derivatives in the methanol water and chloroform phases were measured by liquid scintillation counting LC 60001C Beckman Fullerton Calif. .

The C cholesterol cholesterol derivatives in chloroform and methanol water phases were examined by thin layer chromatograph TLC E. Merck Darmstadt Germany using different developing solvent systems toluene ethyl acetate 2 3 v v for the C cholesterol oxysterols in chloroform phase and ethyl acetate cyclohexane acetic acid 92 28 12 v v v for those in methanol water phases. The C cholesterol cholesterol derivatives were visualized in Phosphorimager using Fuji imaging plates Fujifilm BAS 1800II Fuji Photo Film Co. LTD Japan .

Total C cholesterol derivatives in chloroform phase were analyzed by HPLC on an Ultrasphere Silica column 5 4.6 mm 25 cm Backman USA using HP Series 1100 solvent delivery system Hewlett Packard Japan at 1.3 ml min flow rate. The column was equilibrated and run in a solvent Hexane Isopropanol Glacial Acetic Acid 965 25 10 v v v as the mobile phase. The effluents were collected every 0.5 min 0.4 ml per fraction except as indicated. The counts of C cholesterol cholesterol derivatives were determined by Scintillation Counter. The column was calibrated with cholesterol H 25 hydroxycholesterol and C 27 hydroxycholesterol.

Total C cholesterol derivatives found in methanol water phases were analyzed on an Ultrasphere PTH C 18 column 5 4.6 mm 25 cm Backman USA at 0.8 ml min flow rate. The column was equilibrated and run in 20 mM KHPO pH 4.2 acetonitrile methanol 1 3 6 v v v as the mobile phase. The effluents were monitored at 195 nm and collected every 0.5 min 0.4 ml per fraction except as indicated. The column was calibrated with tauroursodeoxycholic acid glycoursodeoxycholic acid taurocholic acid glycocholic acid taurochenodeoxycholic acid taurodeoxycholic acid and progesterone. Sulfatase treatment of purified nuclear C cholesterol derivatives 

The purified nuclear C cholesterol derivatives were digested with 2 mg ml of sulfatase EC 3.1.6.1 Sigma St Louis Mo. in 50 mM of acetic buffer pH 5.0 by incubation at 37 C. for 4 hrs. The products were extracted into chloroform phase from methanol water phase by adding 3.3 volume of methanol chloroform 1 1 v v to reaction solution. C Cholesterol derivatives in both chloroform and methanol water phases were then analyzed by TLC and HPLC as stated above.

Reverse Phase Liquid Chromatography Mass Spectrometry Mass Spectrometry LC MS MS Analysis of Nuclear Cholesterol Derivatives 

Reverse phase liquid chromatographic separation was performed on an HP series 1100 system Agilent Technologies Palo Alto Calif. and CTC HTS PAL autosampler Leap Technologies Carrboro N.C. . Separation was carried on a ThermoKeystone Aquasil C18 column 5 m 2.1 mm 100 mm . The mobile phase consisted of A 0.1 formic acid in water and B 0.1 formic acid in acetonitrile. The 20 min gradient was as follows 0 10.0 min 10 95 B linear 10.0 15.0 min 95 B 15.0 15.1 min 95 10 B linear 15.1 20.0 min 10 B. The mass detector was an API 4000 MDS Sciex Toronto Canada 

The elution stream 0.3 ml min from the HPLC apparatus was introduced into a MDS Sciex API 4000 Triple Quadrapole Mass Spectrometer with a Turbo IonSpray ionization ESI source for the analyses. The mass spectrometer was operated in negative ion modes and data were acquired using both full scan mode as well as the product ion mode for MS MS.

The sample was reconstituted into methanol water 20 80 v v . The solution containing the fraction of 11.50 min peak was infused into the LC MS MS system to optimize ESI MS MS parameters. The optimized parameters for Q1 full scan under the negative mode were CUR 10 GS1 40 GS2 40 TEM 400 IS 4500 DP 150 EP 10. The optimized parameters for the product scan of 481 under the negative mode were CUR 10 GS1 40 GS2 40 TEM 400 IS 4500 CAD 5 DP 150 EP 10 CE 50 CXP 15.

Bile acid synthetic rates were determined by the addition of 2.5 Ci of C cholesterol to each P150 mm plate of confluent primary rat hepatocyte cultures 2.5 10cells 24 hrs after plating. Media and cells were harvested 48 hrs after viral infection. Conversion of C cholesterol into C methanol water soluble products was determined by scintillation counting after extraction with chloroform methanol 2 1 vol vol of cells and of culture media. Rates of bile acid biosynthesis following recombinant adenovirus infection were calculated as the ratio of C methanol water soluble counts to the sum of chloroform plus methanol water counts. Individual bile acids were identified by HPLC analysis as described above.

Time points for conversion of C cholesterol to C bile acids were carried out using P150 mm tissue culture dishes Aliquots 1 100 of media were collected in duplicate in a microfuge tube and kept frozen until analysis. A mini Folch extraction was carried out by adding 3 volume of methanol chloroform 1 1 to the culture medium. The tubes were vigorously vortexed and centrifuged at 16 000 g for 6 min. The phases were collected separately and counted.

Data are reported as mean standard error. Where indicated data were subjected to t test analysis and determined to be significantly different if P

A Novel Nuclear Oxysterol is Generated in Mitochondria and Translocated to the Nucleus in Primary Rat Hepatocytes Upon StarD1 Overexpression.

Primary rat hepatocytes were infected with an adenovirus encoding either StarD1 or CYP7A1 as explained in Experimental Procedures. Forty eight hrs after infection bile acid synthesis increased 4 fold and 7 fold respectively as we previously reported 18 . Cells infected with control virus have similar levels of bile acid synthesis as uninfected cells. To test whether overexpression of StarD1 affects the expression of LXR targeting genes following generation of the nuclear oxysterol the regulation of CYP7A1 expression was investigated following StarD1 overexpression. CYP7A1 mRNA levels increased by 6 fold n 3 at day 3 following StarD1 overexpression .

The subcellular distribution of C cholesterol derivatives was monitored by adding exogenous C cholesterol to the hepatocyte culture 2 hrs after infection and is summarized in Table 1. Approximately 50 of the total counts of C cholesterol cholesterol derivatives were found in nuclear related fractions. The other 50 were located in other subcellular organelles including cytosol plasma membranes lysosomes and mitochondria Fractions A and B . Only a small number of counts were detected in the inner membrane fraction Fraction E . Interestingly the total extractable C cholesterol cholesterol derivatives in nuclear debris from StarD1 infected cells was significantly 25 higher than those of CYP7A1 infected or control nuclear extracts Fraction F . TLC analysis of the chloroform extractable cholesterol derivatives found in the nuclear fraction Fraction D in StarD1 infected hepatocytes showed four bands which migrated like cholesterol ester cholesterol 25 hydroxycholesterol and 27 hydroxycholesterol respectively . Only cholesterol ester cholesterol and 27 OH cholesterol were detected in control infected cells with cholesterol ester and cholesterol in CYP7A1 infected cells. These results suggested that StarD1 overexpression increased translocation of cholesterol derivatives 25 hydroxycholesterol to the nucleus. The presence of 25 hydroxycholesterol in the nucleus following StarD1 overexpression has been confirmed by mass spectrometry mass spectrometry MS MS analysis data not shown . 25 Hydroxycholesterol is a minor oxysterol that may be formed in different types of tissues by a specific enzyme that may not belong to the cytochrome P 450 family 19 . Interestingly cholesterol derivatives in the methanol water phase extracted from the nuclear debris were dramatically increased in the StarD1 overexpressing cells compared with control and CYP7A1 overexpressing cells .

We then proceeded to analyze the composition of the cholesterol derivatives in the different subcellular fractions of StarD1 overexpressing hepatocytes. We first performed HPLC analysis of C cholesterol derivatives in the methanol water phases from the nuclear and non nuclear fractions. showed the 195 nm profiles which nonspecifically detected double bonds containing molecules and the specific radioactivity incorporated in each fraction derived from the C cholesterol that had been added to the cultures after infection. The 195 nm profiles were relatively similar in the nuclear fraction Fraction D from cells infected either with the StarD1 CYP7A1 or null recombinant viruses except for an extra peak with retention time of 11.51 min which was located between glycocholic acid 10.75 min and taurochenodeoxycholic acid 12.50 min . This 11.50 min peak was the only fraction that contained C labelled cholesterol derivatives and was detectable only in StarD1 overexpressing cells . The non nuclear fraction Fraction A from the StarD1 overexpressing cells contained two major C cholesterol derivative peaks with retention times at 5 and 11.50 min. The 11.50 min peak was not detected in cells infected with either the control or the CYP7A1 viruses .

Further analysis of the cholesterol derivatives in the methanol water phases extracted from mitochondrial nuclear fractions and culture media following overexpression of StarD1 protein showed that two C cholesterol derivatives with retention times at 5.00 min and 11.5 min were found in mitochondria and D . Furthermore the 11.5 min peak was present only in mitochondria and nuclei but not in the media and E suggesting that a cholesterol derived molecule should be generated in mitochondria and translocated to the nucleus. The peak with retention time at 5.00 min was found only in mitochondria and culture media but not in the nucleus and F suggesting that the molecule presented in that peak was secreted from the cells. Therefore the cholesterol derivative with a retention time of 11.50 min in the HPLC system which is generated in the mitochondria and translocates to the nucleus is defined as a nuclear oxysterol and the other as a secretory oxysterol.

To characterize the chemical structure of the nuclear oxysterol we proceeded to purify it by HPLC using C18 and silica columns and analyze it by enzymatic digestion TLC and HPLC analysis. First to detect the potential presence of sulfate group s in the nuclear oxysterol molecule the purified nuclear oxysterol was digested with sulfatase. The products were extracted with methanol chloroform separated by Folch partitioning and characterized by HPLC and TLC analysis. Following sulfatase treatment the nuclear oxysterol products were extracted into the chloroform phase from the methanol water phase and show the same retention time as 25 hydroxycholesterol but not 27 no 24 hydroxycholesterol in our HPLC system and the same relative mobility as 25 hydroxycholesterol on the TLC plate suggesting that the nuclear oxysterol derivative is a sulfated 25 hydroxycholesterol.

To confirm the chemical structure of the nuclear oxysterol derivative the purified nuclear sulfated oxysterol was further analyzed by LC MS MS Mass Spectrometry. After we performed LC MS Q1 full scan mode 350 to 550 atomic mass units amu under negative ionization mode a prominent peak was observed at a retention time of 10.75 min in a selected ion chromatogram of mass ion at m z 481 as shown in . The Q1 full scan spectrum showed the peak at 10.75 min mainly contained molecule ions m z 480.1 and 481.5 . Further analysis showed the molecule ion m z 480.1 did not contain a sulfate group on hydroxyl group m z 97 data not shown . However the molecule ion m z 481.5 corresponds to sulfate group 97 and cholesterol MW 386 . This molecule ion was further analyzed by LC MS MS product scan of m z 481 under negative ionization mode . The characteristic fragment ions were observed at m z 80 a 97 b 107 123 c 288 465 and 59 d in the product scan spectrum of m z 481 . These observed fragment ions indicate that the nuclear oxysterol is a sulfated oxysterol with a sulfate group on 3 OH position 20 and a hydroxyl group on side chain m z 59 molecular mass 482 80 sulfate 16 O 386 cholesterol . Combined with data from HPLC enzymatic digestion and TLC analysis the nuclear oxysterol derivative can be characterized as 5 cholesten 3 25 diol 3 sulphate 25 hydroxycholesterol 3 sulfate as shown in .

Nuclear Oxysterol Derivatives from Primary Rat Hepatocytes Overexpressing StarD1 Increase Cholesterol Uptake and Bile Acid Synthesis.

To examine the function of the newly characterized nuclear oxysterol derivative in cholesterol homeostasis the effects of the purified oxysterol on cholesterol uptake and bile acid synthesis were determined by measurement of cholesterol and conversion of C cholesterol into methanol water extractable C products in primary rat hepatocytes. The rate of cholesterol uptake was slightly higher in cells treated with nuclear extracts extracted from StarD1 overexpressing cells than those in hepatocytes treated with nuclear extracts isolated from CYP7A1 overexpressing cells or from control cells data not shown . Similarly rates of bile acid synthesis were significantly higher in hepatocytes treated with nuclear extracts from StarD1 overexpressing cells and increased by 4 fold at 24 hrs after addition of the nuclear extracts. In contrast nuclear extracts from CYP7A1 overexpressing cells did not significantly change bile acid synthetic rates compared with control nuclear extracts . To further confirm the role of the nuclear oxysterol derivatives in bile acid biosynthesis the purified oxysterol derivative was dissolved in nuclear extracts methanol water phase from cells infected with the control virus and added to primary rat hepatocytes. The results were very similar to those in cells directly treated with the nuclear extracts from the StarD1 overexpressing cells and in a time and concentration dependent manner providing evidence that the nuclear oxysterol is a potent regulator of bile acid synthesis.

Evidence for the first time to identify a novel nuclear regulatory oxysterol derivative which is generated in mitochondria translocated to the nucleus and upregulates bile acid synthesis gives rise to a new hypothesis that a new regulatory transduction pathway may play an important role in maintenance of intracellular cholesterol homeostasis.

The present results suggested that mitochondrial cholesterol transport proteins such as StarD1 could serve as sensors of intracellular cholesterol levels. When cholesterol levels increase StarD1 proteins deliver cholesterol into mitochondria where it is metabolized to 25 OH cholesterol 3 sulfate the nuclear sulfated oxysterol . The generated nuclear oxysterol derivative is then translocated into the nucleus probably by binding and activating the nuclear oxysterol receptor s . Without being bound by theory it appears plausible that the nuclear sulfated oxysterol nuclear receptor s complex may enter into the nuclei and regulate gene expression involved in cholesterol metabolism. A possible mechanism is proposed in .

In the presence of StarD1 protein cholesterol enters the mitochondria where it is oxidized to 25 hydroxycholesterol and is then sulfated to the nuclear sulfated oxysterol. The present results showed that both 25 hydroxycholesterol and 25 hydroxycholesterol 3 sulfate entered the nucleus. To date 25 hydroxycholesterol has been believed to be the most potent regulator of gene transcription 21 23 . To identify which one exhibits a more potent regulatory function 25 hydroxycholesterol and 25 hydroxycholesterol 3 sulfate in nuclear extracts were separated by Folch partitioning 25 hydroxycholesterol partitions to the chloroform phase and 25 hydroxycholesterol 3 sulfate partitions to the methanol water phase. Interestingly addition of the chloroform phase extracts containing 25 hydroxycholesterol to cells slightly increased the rates of bile acid synthesis data not shown . However the addition of methanol phase extracts dramatically increased bile acid synthesis . Moreover 25 hydroxycholesterol 3 sulfate is a water soluble compound. It is thus reasonable to propose that 25 hydroxycholesterol 3 sulfate serves as a potent nuclear sterol regulators in vivo.

25 Hydroxylases 25 OHLase and Hydroxycholesterol Sulfotransferase 2 HST2 May be Involved in the Generation of the Potent Nuclear Sulfated Oxysterol.

StarD1 delivers cholesterol into the mitochondria and generates a novel nuclear sulfated oxysterol 25 hydroxycholesterol 3 sulphate. This data suggests that a new pathway of cholesterol metabolism is responsible for generating this nuclear oxysterol. Our present report shows the presence of 25 hydroxycholesterol 3 sulfate in both the mitochondria and the nucleus but not in culture media suggesting that 25 hydroxycholesterol 3 sulfate is generated in mitochondria and translocates exclusively to the nucleus. To biosynthesize this potent nuclear sterol regulator two reactions should be involved 25 hydroxylation and 3 sulfation of cholesterol. It is not clear at this time whether 25 hydroxylation is catalyzed by CYP27A1 or 25 hydroxylase because 25 hydroxylase has not yet been identified in hepatocytes or in mitochondria although it has been cloned 19 . Since we did not see any cholesterol 3 sulfate in the HPLC elution profile we believe the first step is likely to be 25 hydroxylation of cholesterol catalyzed by 25 hydroxylase to form 25 hydroxycholesterol. Subsequently sulfation of 25 hydroxycholesterol at the 3 position is catalyzed by hydroxycholesterol sulfotransferases HST2 a b enzymes which have recently been cloned and identified 24 25 . In addition 25 hydroxycholesterol 3 sulfate may be glucuronidated for further catabolism and secretion via the bile as 24 hydroxycholesterol 3 sulfate 26 . However at the present time it is not clear that the C cholesterol derivative with a retention time of 5 min is the glucuronidation product of 25 hydroxycholesterol 3 sulfate .

Steroid sulfate conjugates may play an important role in the maintenance of cholesterol homeostasis. An interesting development in recent years has been the realization that steroid sulfoconjugates play important roles in well characterized biological effects such as serving as potent neuroexcitatory agents which are distinct from the well known role of unconjugated steroids as ligands for nuclear receptors to regulate gene expression 27 . Several sulfated sterols have been reported to be widely distributed in steroidogenesis tissues 26 and to circulate in plasma at concentrations ranging from 328 924 g 100 ml with a blood production rate of 35 163 mg day 28 . A similar sulfated oxysterol derivative 24 hydroxycholeterol 3 sulfate 24 glucuronide based on MS MS analysis was reported to be in the serum and urine of children with severe cholestatic liver diseases 26 . The 3 sulfate of 24 hydroxycholesterol is the major hydroxycholesterol sulfate found in meconium and infant feces 29 30 and is most likely excreted via bile. Bile excretion of this oxysterol would be impaired in cholestasis leading to its increased concentration of 24 hydroxycholesterol 3 sulfate in hepatocytes and conceivably leading to its glucuronidation. However where the compound came from and what function this oxysterol plays in the cholestatic liver is still a mystery. Although high levels of the double conjugate of 24 hydroxycholesterol are an indicator of grave liver disease and can be used as a criterion for recommending liver transplantation the physiological role and metabolism of this compound have never been identified. Sulfated sterols have been implicated in a wide variety of biological processes e.g. regulation of cholesterol synthesis sperm capacitation thrombin and plasmin activities and activation of protein kinase C isozymes 24 . Furthermore sulfated sterols can serve as a substrate for adrenal and ovarian steroidogenesis 31 32 . Sulfated sterols play an important but unclear role in the normal development and physiology of skin where an epidermal sterol sulfate cycle has been described 24 . The present results show that the nuclear extract containing the sulfated oxysterol and the purified nuclear sulfated oxysterol dramatically increased the rates of bile acid synthesis strongly suggesting that the nuclear sulfated oxysterol may play an important role in cholesterol metabolism.

Activation of LXRs by oxysterols is believed to be responsible for regulation of the metabolism of several important lipids including cholesterol and bile acids 33 . The identification of an LXR response element in the promoter of the rat cholesterol CYP7A1 suggested that LXRs play an important role in the regulation of cholesterol homeostasis 34 35 . LXR deficient mice LXR dysregulate the CYP7A1 gene and several other important lipid associated genes 3 . Studies utilizing these animals confirmed the essential function of LXR as a major sensor of dietary cholesterol and an activator of the bile acid synthetic pathway in mice. The finding of authentic oxysterol ligands for LXRs is one of the most important investigative methods for developing new therapeutic methods for the prevention and treatment of hyperlipidemia and atherosclerosis. To date there is still only indirect evidence of the important role of oxysterols such as 24 25 or 27 hydroxycholesterol as authentic ligands in the normal regulation of cholesterol homeostasis. Soluble and nuclear oxysterol binding proteins with a high affinity for oxysterols exist but the physiological ligands for these proteins have not yet been defined with certainty 36 . The present report with evidence showing that a potent regulatory nuclear sulfated oxysterol that is generated in the mitochondria translocates into the nucleus provides a new clue regarding the role of oxysterol s in the regulation of intracellular cholesterol homeostasis. It is reasonable to hypothesize that the regulatory nuclear sulfated oxysterol generated in mitochondria translocates into nucleus activates nuclear oxysterol receptor s and up regulates bile acid synthesis. The nuclear sulfated oxysterol serves as a ligand of nuclear sterol receptor s .

Preliminary experiments have shown that the purified nuclear oxysterol up regulates bile acid synthesis. To further investigate the mechanism of this activity the effect of purified 5 cholesten 3 25 diol 3 sulphate on gene expression of LXR targeted cholesterol transport proteins ABCA1 ABCG1 ABCG5 ABCG8 and LDLR was investigated. Purified nuclear sulfated oxysterol was added to primary hepatocytes in culture and mRNA levels of the transport proteins were quantitated by real time RT PCR. The primer sets and TagMan probes for detection of mRNA levels were purchased from AB Applied Biosystem Foster City Calif. and the reactions were performed on an MJ Research DNA Engine Opticon instrument. The results are presented in and show that the addition of purified nuclear oxysterol to primary hepatocytes in culture increased expression of ABCA1 2 fold and ABCG5 1.6 fold and ABCG8 3 fold . The expression of ABCG1 is typically low in primary hepatocytes and did not change compared with control cells. The correlation of increased levels of the sulfated oxysterol in nuclei with increased levels of LXR targeting gene expression suggests that the nuclear oxysterol receptor LXR is activated by exposure to the sulfated oxysterol. These data do not rule out the activation of other nuclear receptor s as well.

Recently a novel oxysterol 5 cholesten 3 25 diol 3 sulfate 25HC3S was discovered characterized and identified in mitochondria and nuclei of primary hepatocytes following overexpression of the cholesterol transport protein StarD1. This oxysterol was also detected in human liver nuclei. In the present study 25HC3S was chemically synthesized. Addition of varying concentrations of 25HC3S to HepG2 cells markedly inhibited cholesterol biosynthesis and significantly decreased microsomal cholesterol. Real time RT PCR and Western blot analysis shows that 25HC3S strongly decreased HMG CoA reductase mRNA levels in HepG2 cells and primary human hepatocytes. In comparison 25 hydroxycholesterol 25HC inhibited HMG CoA reductase mRNA levels in HepG2 cells but not in primary human hepatocytes when the cells were culture in serum free media. Coincidentally 25HC3S inhibited the activation of steroid response element binding protein SREBP 1 in absence or presence of mevinolin and mevalonate indicating that cholesterol biosynthesis inhibition occurred through blocking SREBP 1 activation and subsequently the expression of HMG CoA reductase in the human hepatocytes. In conclusion the presented findings indicate that 25HC3S regulates intracellular cholesterol biosynthesis via inhibiting SREBPs activation in human hepatocytes.

The acidic pathway of bile acid biosynthesis is initiated by the mitochondrial enzyme sterol 27 hydroxylase CYP27A1 . Oxysterol intermediates of the acidic pathway such as 27 hydroxycholesterol 27HC and 25 hydroxycholesterol 25HC have been shown to be regulators of cholesterol homeostasis 1 2 . These oxysterols represent regulatory molecules for the expression of many other genes encoding enzymes involved in cholesterol biosynthesis and transport 3 5 . In theory increased CYP27A1 activity in peripheral tissues could both down regulate cholesterol synthesis through generating regulatory oxysterols and the steroid response element binding proteins SREBPs pathway and enhance the cellular efflux of cholesterol i.e. its elimination via liver oxysterol receptor LXR 6 . However the relationship between the CYP27A1 activity and intracellular cholesterol metabolism is unknown.

Previous reports showed that overexpression of the steroidogenic acute regulatory protein StarD1 a protein which facilitates cholesterol transport into mitochondria dramatically increases cholesterol catabolism to bile acids both in primary hepatocytes in culture and in vivo 7 8 . These findings suggest that cholesterol delivery to the mitochondria where the enzyme CYP27A1 is localized is the rate determining step for bile acid synthesis via the acidic pathway. Subsequently StarD1 was detected in hepatocytes 9 . Overexpression of StarD1 in vivo not only increases bile acid synthesis to the same level as overexpression of CYP7A1 but also produces a similar composition of bile acids in bile 8 . As described in Examples 1 3 a novel oxysterol 5 cholesten 3 25 diol 3 sulfate 25HC3S was found and characterized in mitochondria and nuclei of primary hepatocytes following overexpression of StarD1. This oxysterol was also present in human liver nuclei 10 . The results suggested that the oxysterol is synthesized in the mitochondria and tranlocated to the nuclei. Oxysteorls in nuclei should be able to play important roles in maintenance of intracellular cholesterol homeostasis. However the function of this nuclear oxysterol 25HC3S remains unknown.

In the present study we chemically synthesized 25HC3S and presented evidence that this oxysterol strongly regulates HMG CoA reductase a key enzyme in cholesterol biosynthesis via SREBP regulatory system in hepatocytes.

Cell culture reagents and supplies were purchased from GIBCO BRL Grand Island N.Y. C Cholesterol and H 25 hydroxycholesterol H 25HC from New England Nuclear Boston Mass. . C 27 OH Cholesterol was prepared as previously described 11 . HepG2 cells were obtained from American Type Culture Collection Rockville Md. . Fetal bovine serum was obtained from Bio Whittaker Walkersville Md. . Tissue culture flasks were purchased from Costar Corp. Cambridge Mass. . The reagents for real time RT PCR were from AB Applied Biosystem Warrington WA1 4 SR UK . The chemicals used in this research were obtained from Sigma Chemical Co. St. Louis Mo. or Bio Rad laboratories Hercules Calif. unless otherwise specified. All solvents were obtained from Fisher Fair Lawn N.J. unless otherwise indicated. The enhanced chemilluminescence ECL reagents were purchased from Amersham Biosciences Piscataway N.J. . The testosterone and 27HC were obtained from Research Plus Inc. Bayonne N.J. . LK6 20 20 cm thin layer chromatography TLC plates were purchased from Whatman Inc. Clifton N.J. . Nylon membranes were purchased from Micron Separation Inc. Westborough Mass. .

A mixture of 25HC 402 mg 1 mmol and triethylamine sulfur trioxide pyridine complex 160 mg 1 mmol in 5 ml of dry pyridine was stirred at room temperature for 2 hrs. After the solvent was evaporated at reduced pressure the products were purified by HPLC using silica gel column and solvent of methylene chloride and methanol 5 as mobile phase to afford the product as a white solid powder. The structure of the product was characterized by mass spectrum MS and nuclear magnetic resonance NMR spectroscopy analysis.

The synthesized compound was analyzed by a MDS Sciex ABI 4000 Triple Quadrapole Mass Spectrometer MDS Sciex Toronto Canada with a Turbo IonSpray ionization ESI source and the mass spectrometer was operated in negative ion modes and data were acquired using full scan mode as previously described 10 .

Samples were prepared for H NMR analysis as described previously 12 . Briefly each sample 1 mg was dissolved in 0.5 ml of Dand lyophilized to remove exchangeable protons. The residue was dissolved in 0.5 ml of dimethyl sulfoxide d6 DO 98 2 v v . NMR spectra were obtained on spectrometers operating at H frequencies of 300 MHz.

HepG2 cells were grown in MEM containing non essential amino acids 0.03M NaHCO 10 FBS 1 mM L glutamine 1 mM sodium pyruvate and 1 Pen Strep and incubated at 37 C. in 5 CO. When cells reached at 90 confluency the oxysterols in DMSO or in ethanol final concentration 0.1 and or 1 C acetate for cholesterol synthesis was added or otherwise as indicated. Microsomal and cytosol fractions were isolated from broken cells as described previously 10 .

Primary human hepatocytes were purchased from an NIH approved facility Liver Tissue Procurement Distribution System Univ. of Minnesota . Cells were obtained from a random sampling of males and females 18 69 yr of age. Experiments were performed as cells became available to corroborate findings in experiments conducted in HepG2 cells as previous described 13 .

After incubation of HepG2 cells with media containing 25HC3S for 6 hrs cultures in 25 cm2 flasks were given 3 ml of the same fresh medium containing 5 Ci of the 1 C acetate. After 4 hr incubation at 37 C. the media were removed and the cells were washed twice with phosphate saline buffer PBS harvested with rubber police as described and collected in Eppendoff tubes. The cells were sedimented by centrifugation and the pellets were washed three times by resuspension and sedimentation. The pellets were resuspended in 0.3 ml of PBS. The total lipids were extracted and separated by adding 3 volume of chloroform methanol v v 1 1 . C Cholesterol and 27 hydroxycholesterol was isolated into chloroform phase and separated on TLC tuluene acetyl acetate 2 3 v v . 1 C acetate derivatives were visualized by Image Reader Fujifilm BAS 1800 II.

 1 C Acetate derivatives in the chloroform phase were analyzed by HPLC on an Ultrasphere Silica column 5 4.6 mm 25 cm Backman USA using HP Series 1100 solvent delivery system Hewlett Packard at 1.3 ml min flow rate. The column was equilibrated and run in a solvent system of hexane isopropanol glacial acetic acid 965 25 10 v v v as the mobile phase. The effluents were collected every 0.5 min 0.65 ml per fraction except as indicated. The counts in C acetate derivatives were determined by Scintillation Counting. The column was calibrated with C cholesterol H 25HC and C 27 hydroxycholesterol.

Total RNA was isolated from HepG2 cells using SV Total RNA Isolation Kit Promega . Two g of total RNA was used for first strand cDNA synthesis as recommended by manufacture Invitrogen . Real time PCR was performed using SYBR Green on ABI 7500 Fast Real Time PCR System Applied Biosystems . The final reaction mixture contained 5 ng of cDNA 100 nM of each primer 10 l of 2 SYBR Green PCR Master Mix Applied Biosystems and RNase free water to complete the reaction mixture volume to 20 l. All reactions were performed in triplicate. The PCR was carried out for 40 cycles at 95 C. for 15 s and 60 C. for 1 min. The fluorescence was read during the reaction allowing a continuous monitoring of the amount of PCR product. The data was normalized to internal control actin or GAPDH mRNA. The sequences of primers for HMG CoA reductase used in real time PCR are ACCTTTCCAGAGCAAGCACATT SEQ ID NO 1 Forward and AGGACCTAAAATTGCCATTCCA SEQ ID NO 2 Reverse .

Microsomal proteins 80 g were separated on a 7.5 SDS polyacrylamide denaturing gel according to the method of Laemmli 14 . Following SDS PAGE Hoefer Vertical Slab Gel Unit Heofer San Francisco Calif. proteins were electrophoretically transferred overnight 4 C. to Immobilon P membranes using a Hoefer Trans Blot Electrophoretic Transfer cell. The membranes were then blocked for 90 minutes 25 C. in blocking buffer PBS pH 7.4 0.1 Tween 5 non fat dry milk . Proteins were then incubated for 90 minutes 25 C. or overnight 4 C. with a rabbit polyclonal IgG 1 2500 1 20 000 against human SREBP 1 SREBP 2 or HMG CoA reductase. After washing a secondary antibody goat anti rabbit IgG Horse radish peroxidase conjugate 1 2500 was added to the blocking solution 25 C. 90 minutes . Protein bands were detected using the Amersham ECL plus Kit.

Chemical synthesis of the nuclear oxysterol 5 cholesten 3 25 diol 3 Sulfate To study the role that 25HC3S may play in cellular cholesterol homeostasis this oxysterol was chemically synthesized. Using a modified triethylamine sulfur trioxide complex protocol as described in Methods the nuclear oxysterol was successfully synthesized as outlined in . MS analysis of the synthesized compound shows the same molecular mass ion m z 481 as the authentic nuclear oxysterol . H NMR analysis shows that the proton resonance at C3 with multiple small 1.5 Hz splits near 3.65 ppm in the spectrum of 25 OH cholesterol starting material is shifted to 4.20 ppm in the product spectrum as indicated which confirms that HSO group is added at the C3 position of 25 OH cholesterol. HPLC analysis shows the same retention time of the synthesized oxysterol as the authentic nuclear oxysterol data not shown . Combined with the results from the MS analysis it is concluded that the synthesized molecule is 5 cholesten 3 25 diol 3 sulphate 25HC3S . The results also confirmed the structure of the nuclear oxysterol as previously reported 10 and Examples 1 3 .

To examine the effects of 25HC3S on cholesterol biosynthesis the rates of cholesterol synthesis were determined by adding 1 C acetate following the addition of varying concentration of 25HC3S to HepG2 cells in culture. summarizes the effects of 25HC3S on cholesterol biosynthesis. After incubation of the cells in the media containing 25HC3S for 6 hrs and C acetate for additional 4 hrs total lipids were extracted and partitioned. Neutral lipids in the chloroform phases including C acetate derivatives were analyzed by TLC and HPLC TLC analysis shows that C cholesterol ether C cholesterol and C 25HC were synthesized but no detectable C 27HC . Free C cholesterol was found to be significantly decreased following addition of 25HC3S while the other labeled sterols did not significantly change. The decreases were concentration dependent . The decreased amounts of C cholesterol bands on the TLC were confirmed by HPLC analysis as shown in . The results from three experiments are summarized in .

To study the distribution of intracellular cholesterol following the addition of 25HC3S microsomal nuclear and cytosol fractions were isolated and total lipids from each fraction were extracted with chloroform methanol water. The cholesterol concentration in each fraction was determined by HPLC after cholesterol oxidase treatment which converts sterols to 3 oxo 4 derivatives. As shown in 25HC3S significantly decreased cholesterol levels in the microsomal fraction left panels as well as 25HC right panels but not in cytosol and nuclear fractions data not shown . The decreases in cholesterol concentration were dose dependent as indicated in . It was also observed that no 25HC could be detected in the fractions from cells treated with 25HC3S. In contrast dose dependent levels of 25 hydroxycholeterol could be detected in the fractions treated with 25HC as shown in right panels . These results suggest that 25HC3S directly inhibits cholesterol biosynthesis and decreases cholesterol levels in microsomal fractions and not through its degradation to be 25HC.

To investigate how 25HC3S inhibits cholesterol biosynthesis total mRNA were isolated from HepG2 cells following incubation in 10 FBS fresh media containing different concentrations of 25HC3S . The mRNA levels of HMG CoA reductase were determined by real time RT PCR. As shown in there was concentration dependent decreases in HMG CoA reductase mRNA following the addition of 25HC3S to the cells in culture. The addition of 25HC3S to HepG2 cells also lead to a marked decrease in the levels of HMG CoA reductase protein and D . Western blot analysis shows that 50 of its protein level was decreased in a concentration dependent following the addition of 25HC3S to culture media and D .

To compare with 25HC mRNA levels of HMG CoA reductase in 25HC or 25HC3S treated HepG2 cells were analyzed by real time RT PCR. Both of the compounds can inhibit HMG CoA reductase in a similar fashion as shown in . To further distinguish whether 25HC3S inhibits HMG CoA reductase expression via lipids uptake in the culture media HepG2 cells were incubated in media containing lipid depleted serum for 2 hrs which increases expression of HMG CoA reductase by four fold as previously reported 15 . Cells were incubated for another 6 hrs following the addition of 25HC3S. Real time RT PCR analysis shows that 25HC3S still strongly inhibits HMG CoA reductase mRNA levels . Interestingly 25HC shows much more potent inhibition of the reductase mRNA in lipid depleted media as compared to cells cultured in medium containing FBS . Under these conditions 25HC is more potent inhibition than 25HC3S on HMG CoA reductase mRNA levels. The result of inhibition of HMG CoA reductase by 25HC is consistent with previous report 16 17 . To confirm its physiological role that 25HC3S plays in the cholesterol biosynthesis primary human hepatocytes PHH cultured in serum free media were used. Surprisingly 25HC did not significantly affect the levels of HMG CoA reductase mRNA 15 at 25 mM . In contract 25HC3S inhibited HMG CoA reductase mRNA at a similar level 75 as that in HepG2 cells . HPLC analysis showed that the increasing levels of 25HC in the cells are concentration dependent indicating that 25HC can still enter to the cells under this culture condition as in FBS containing media. These results suggest that 25HC3S and 25HC inhibit HMG CoA reductase mRNA by different mechanisms.

The Nuclear Oxysterol Inhibits HMG CoA Reductase Expression by Inhibition of Both SREBP 1 and SREBP 2 Activation

It has been well documented that HMG CoA reductase gene expression is regulated by SREBP 1 and SREBP 2 18 . When SREBPs are activated the cholesterol biosynthesis will increase 19 . To study whether SREBP regulatory system is involved in the inhibition of HMG CoA reductase mRNA levels and inhibition of cholesterol biosynthesis by 25HC3S total cellular protein was extracted from HepG2 cells treated with 25HC3S or 25HC at different concentration . The precursor and mature forms of SREBPs were determined by Western blot analysis. As expected the decreases of the mature forms of SREBP 1 and the increases of the precursor form of SREBP 1 following addition of 25HC3S and 25HC were dose dependent . However the mature form of SREBP 2 only slightly decreased . It was observed that the activation of SREBP 1 was much more sensitive to the treatment with 25HC and 25HC3S than that of SREBP 2. The inhibition of SREBP 1 maturation fits the decrease in HMG CoA reductase mRNA at 3 M of 25HC or 12 M of 25HC3S 85 of the mRNA of HMG CoA reductase and SREBP1 was inhibited. To confirm the mechanism HepG2 cells were incubated in media containing 50 M of mevinolin and 0.5 M of mevalonate. Under this condition SREBPs and HMG CoA expressions are upregulated. Following the treatment with 25HC or 25HC3S SREBPs activation in the cells was determined by Western blot as described above. As shown in 25HC3S shows more potent inhibition on SREBP 1 activation than 25HC. Thus the nuclear oxysterol 25HC3S is most likely to inhibit the activation of SREBP 1 and subsequently inhibits the expression HMG CoA reductase.

The current study shows that the chemically synthesized oxysterol 25HC3S as well as 25HC inhibits the cholesterol biosynthesis and the expression of the key enzyme HMG CoA reductase. Unlike 25HC 25HC3S inhibits this expression in primary human hepatocytes as well as HepG2. 25HC3S was found in the human liver nuclei and its levels were dramatically increased following overexpression of mitochondrial cholesterol delivery protein StarD1 in primary rat hepatocytes indicating that 25HC3S is most likely synthesized in the mitochondria and translocated to the nuclei for the regulation of gene expression involved in cholesterol homeostasis 10 . The present results provided evidence that the oxysterol 25HC3S plays an important role in maintenance of the intracellular cholesterol homeostasis and suggested that the StarD1 protein may serve as a sensor of intracellular cholesterol levels. When cholesterol levels are too high in the cells StarD1 protein may deliver cholesterol to mitochondria where cholesterol is converted to be potent regulatory oxysterols such as 25HC 27HC and 25HC3S. Those oxysterols play important roles in maintenance of cholesterol homeostasis.

Theoretically the added oxysterols can be metabolized after they enter into cells 25HC can be sulfated by hydroxysteroid sulfotransferase 2B1b SULT2B1b to be sulfated 25HC or sulfated 25HC can be degraded by sulfatase to be 25HC. Thus which one serves as a potent regulator in the maintenance of cholesterol homeostasis is questionable. Our HPLC analysis data shows that no 25HC was generated following addition of 25HC3S up to 50 M left panels suggesting that 25HC3S was not degraded during the culture time. In contrast the peak of 25HC increased following the addition of the 25HC and the increasing is dose dependent right panels . Although the results can not rule out the possibility that a small portion of the oxysterol was converted to be the sulfated 25HC there is no evidence that 25HC works as the sulfated form at present.

25HC3S and 25HC inhibit cholesterol synthesis by two different mechanisms both involving the proteins that control sterol regulatory element binding proteins SREBPs membrane bound transcription factors that activate genes encoding enyzymes of lipids biosynthesis. In sterol depleted cells SREBP cleavage activating protein SCAP escorts its bound SREBP to the Golgi apparatus where the SREBP is processed sequentially by two membrane embedded proteases. The NH terminal domain released by the process can enter the nucleus where it activates transcription of the gene encoding HMG CoA reductase and more than 30 other genes whose products are necessary for lipid synthesis 18 . When 25HC is delivered to cells in ethanol or when cholesterol is delivered in LDL SCAP becomes trapped in the ER. The bound SREBP is no longer carried to the Golgi apparatus and the NH2 terminal domain can not enter the nucleus 20 . As a result transcription of the lipid biosynthetic genes declines. Retention of the SCAP SREBP complex in the ER is mediated by the sterol induced binding of SCAP to Insigs Insig 1 and Insig 2 in the ER membrane 20 21 . When mixtures of cholesterol and 25HC are added to cultured cells SCAP is induced to bind to Insig 1 and Insig 2 and thus can not transport SREBPs to the Golgi body 3 and to be activated. J. L. Goldstein laboratory provided evidence that cholesterol interacts with SCAP directly by inducing it to bind to Insigs whereas 25HC works indirectly through a putative 25HC sensor protein that elicits SCAP Insig binding 3 . However what the 25HC sensor protein is unknown.

The present study showed that 25HC strongly inhibits HMG CoA reductase in the presence of the lipids depleted serum both in HepG2 90 similar inhibits as 25HS3S does in the presence of serum 70 but weakly inhibits in PHH when the cells were cultured in serum free media 15 . These results suggest that PHH does not express 25 hydroxycholesteorl sensor protein s under this culture system. However 25HC3S can inhibit the enzyme expression to similar levels either presence or absence of serum or lipids depleted serum in both hepG2 and PHH indicating that 25HC3S can directly regulate the gene expression. The major reason could be that 25HC3S is much more hydrophilic than 25 hydroxycholeterol and is water soluble which makes the molecule freely self transport after this molecule enters the cells.

The oxysterol 25HC3S inhibits the cholesterol biosynthesis through inhibiting the activation of SREBP 1 and SREBP 2 and subsequently inhibit the expression HMG CoA reductase in HepG2 cells and primary human hepatocytes. Based on the microarray data from transgenic and knockout mice both SREBP 1 and SREBP 2 activation stimulate HMG CoA reductase by 30 folds and 38 folds respectively 18 . SREBP 1 also strongly stimulates fatty acid synthase but not SREBP 2 18 . However it is not clear whether SREBP 1 and SREBP 2 are directly mediated by 25HC3S to regulate the expression regulation of the key enzyme HMG CoA. Our results clearly show that 25HC3S as well as 25HC are much more potent in inhibiting SREBP 1 activation than SREBP 2. We believe that 25HC3S inhibits SREBP 1 activation and subsequently inhibits HMG CoA reductase resulting in the decline of cholesterol biosynthesis.

The effect of the addition nuclear oxysterol on cholesterol levels was tested in human hepatocyte HepG2 cell line and the results are presented in . As can be seen administration of the nuclear oxysterol resulted in a significant decrease in the level of cholesterol detected in microsomal fractions of the HepG2 cells when compared to the control 25HC3S concentration 0 .

Administration to female mice 20 25 g weight were was by peritoneal injection once with or without 72 g of the nuclear oxysterol in 100 l of 0.9 NaCl containing 3 l of ethanol. Twelve hrs following the injection blood was harvested for analysis of triglycerides and cholesterol. The results are presented in which shows that injection of the nuclear oxysterol decreased triglycerides in serum by 40 n 12 p

To test the effect of diet on cholesterol levels mice were provided with either a normal or high cholesterol diet for 8 days and treated with the nuclear oxysterol as described above. Liver tissues were collected for pathohistochemistry studies Sudan IV staining and the results showed that administration of the oxysterol significantly decreased triglyceride levels in liver tissues of mice that were fed normally and also of mice that were fed a high cholesterol diet data not shown .

This study demonstrates that this natural nuclear oxysterol 25HC3S could serve as a potent drug for the treatment and prevention of hypercholesterolemia and hyperlipidemia and related diseases such as atherosclerosis.

The nuclear orphan receptor PPAR is particularly important in regulating inflammatory responses in macrophages. Activation of PPAR represses key inflammatory response gene expressions. However the regulation of PPAR activation is obscure. Recently a new cholesterol metabolite 25 hydroxycholesterol 3 sulfate 25HC3S was identified as a potent regulatory molecule of lipid metabolism. This Example explores the effect of 25HC3S and its precursor 25 hydroxycholesterol 25HC on PPAR activation and inflammatory responses. Addition of 25HC3S to human macrophages markedly increased nuclear PPAR cytosol I B and decreased nuclear NF B protein levels. PPAR response element reporter gene assays showed that 25HC3S significantly increased luciferase activities. NF B dependent promoter reporter gene assays showed that 25HC3S suppressed TNF induced luciferase activities only when co transfected with pCMX PPAR plasmid in H441 cells. In addition 25HC3S decreased LPS induced TNF and IL 1 mRNA expressions and releases. In the PPAR specific siRNA transfected macrophages 25HC3S failed to increase I B and to suppress TNF and IL 1 expression. In contrast to 25HC3S its precursor 25HC a known LXR ligand decreased nuclear PPAR cytosol I B while increasing nuclear NF B protein levels in the presence of LPS and TNF . This demonstrates that 25HC3S acts in macrophages as a PPAR activator and suppresses inflammatory response via PPAR I B NF B signaling pathway.

Macrophages are the key cellular players in the pathophysiology of atherosclerosis. In the early stage of atherosclerosis macrophages in arterial walls may accumulate lipids. These lipid loaded macrophages termed foam cells are characteristic of a reversible early cellular phase of atherosclerotic lesions. Progressive lipid accumulation leads to further escalation of inflammatory responses and infiltration of inflammatory cells 1 . Through this process early cellular lesions are transformed to late fibrous atherosclerotic plaques. Physiological or pharmacological maneuvers that reduce macrophage lipids and inflammatory responses may be effective in preventing or reversing atherosclerosis.

Nuclear orphan receptors are ligand activated transcription factors that regulate the expression of target genes to affect processes as diverse as reproduction inflammation development and general metabolism 2 . Nuclear receptor peroxisome proliferation activator receptors PPARs which play major roles in the regulation of lipid metabolism glucose homeostasis and inflammatory process are implicated in the control of diverse diseases such as type II diabetes and atherosclerosis and are believed to be ideal targets for therapeutic management strategies for many metabolic disorders 3 8 . Activation of PPAR leads to the formation of heterodimers with RXRs. The heterodimers bind to DNA specific sequences called peroxisome proliferator response elements PPRE and lead to up or down regulation of transcriptional activity of target genes 9 . Several natural compounds such as fatty acids PGD2 derivatives eicosanoids have been reported to act on PPAR 10 13 . However their affinities with PPAR protein are low 14 16 . Thus natural ligands for PPAR and the regulating mechanisms of its activation are yet to be elucidated.

Oxygenated cholesterols oxysterols play an important role in maintenance of lipid homeostasis 17 . Recently we identified a novel oxysterol 25 hydroxycholesterol 3 sulfate 25HC3S that accumulates in hepatocyte nuclei following overexpression of the mitochondrial cholesterol delivery protein StarD1 18 20 . Macrophages are able to synthesize this oxysterol 21 . This oxysterol appears to be synthesized from 25HC by sterol sulfotransferase 2B1 SULT2B1 22 . Of note is that overexpression of SULT2B1 impairs the response of liver oxysterol receptor LXR to multiple oxysterol ligands 23 .

Furthermore the addition of 25HC3S to primary hepatocytes down regulates expression of key enzymes involved in lipid metabolism and decreases lipid biosynthesis by inactivating the LXR SREBP 1 signaling pathway in hepatocytes and macrophages 21 24 . Several studies show that inflammation is closely associated with disordered lipid metabolism 25 26 . Infection and inflammation induce the acute phase response APR leading to multiple alterations in lipid and lipoprotein metabolism. APR increases plasma triglyceride levels de novo hepatic fatty acid synthesis and suppression of fatty acid oxidation 27 . The molecular mechanisms during the APR involve coordinated changes in several nuclear orphan receptors including PPARs LXRs and RXRs 27 28 . PPAR as well as LXRs are lipid activated transcription factors and reciprocally regulate inflammation and lipid metabolism 3 29 . The processes by which these events occur are poorly understood. Cholesterol metabolites 25HC and 25HC3S have been shown to be the potent regulators involved in lipids metabolism via LXRs SREBPs signaling pathway 21 24 . It is thus possible that they are able to regulate inflammatory response through PPAR signaling pathway.

Data presented in this Example demonstrates that 25HC3S is a potent down regulator while 25HC is an up regulator of inflammatory responses. Evidence is provided that their effects on the inflammatory response are mediated via activation of the PPAR I B NF B signaling pathway in macrophages. These findings imply a new signaling pathway for the interaction between inflammatory response and lipid metabolism.

Cell culture reagents and supplies were purchased from GIBCO BRL Grand Island N.Y. the reagents for real time RT PCR were obtained from AB Applied Biosystems Applied Biosystems Foster City Calif. . Antibodies against human PPAR I B and Lamin B were purchased from Santa Cruz Biotechnology Santa Cruz Calif. . FuGENE HD transfection reagent was obtained from Roche Applied Science Indianapolis Ind. . Single Analyte ELISArray Kits were purchased from SupperArray Frederick Md. . The Dual Glo Luciferase Assay System and pGL3 NF B luc were purchased from Promega Wisconsin Wis. PPAR agonist rosiglitazone and antagonist T0070907 were from New Cayman Chemical Ann Arbor Mich. . pGL3 PPAR response element PPRE luciferase reporter containing three copies of PPRE from the promoter of rat acyl CoA oxidase and the receptor expression plasmids pcDNAI PPAR were from the University of Tennessee Health Science Center 30 .

Human THP 1 monocytes and H441 cells were purchased from the American Type Culture Collection Manassas Va. and maintained according to the supplier s protocols. THP 1 monocytes were differentiated to macrophages by adding 100 nM of phorbol 12 myristate 13 acetate PMA . When cells reached 90 confluence oxysterols in DMSO or in ethanol the final concentration in media was 

Fifty g of total cell lysates or nuclear protein extracts otherwise as indicated were separated on 10 SDS PAGE gels and transferred onto a polyvinylidene difluoride membrane as described previously 31 . Membranes were blocked in TBS containing 5 of nonfat dried milk for 1 hr. The specific proteins were determined by incubation with specific antibodies against human PPAR or I B overnight at 4 C. with shaking. After washing the membrane was incubated in a 1 3 000 dilution of a secondary antibody goat anti rabbit or anti mouse IgG HP conjugate Bio Rad Hercules Calif. at room temperature for 1 hr in the washing buffer Tris buffered solution containing 0.5 Tween 20 . The protein bands were visualized using Western Lightening Chemiluminescence Reagent Perkin Elmer Waltham Mass. . The expression levels were normalized to Lamin.

PPAR response elements PPRE binding activities were measured using an enzyme linked immunosorbent assay PPAR transcription factor assay kit Cayman Chemical Ann Arbor Mich. . The 96 well plate was preimmobilized with deoxyoligonucleoties containing PPRE. THP 1 derived macrophages were treated with 25HC3S at indicated concentrations or rosiglitazone for 4 hrs. The cells were then rinsed and nuclear proteins were extracted according to the manufacturer s instructions. Total nuclear extract protein 10 g from each sample was added to the plate. The kit provided two negative as zero controls one positive as maximal binding control and one competitive as specific binding control in the presence of dsDNA were used in the assay. After incubating for 1 hr the wells were washed and incubated with primary PPAR antibody which recognizes the accessible epitope on PPAR protein upon PPRE binding. The peroxidase labeled second antibody was added and incubated for 1 hr. The reaction was stopped and absorbance was read at 450 nm in a spectrophotometer.

H441 cells were seeded in 96 well plates. When cell density reached 90 95 the cells were transfected with an expression plasmid as indicated using a lipid based FuGENE HD transfection reagent according to the manufacture Roche Indianapolis Ind. . A synthetic renilla luciferase reporter phrG TK Promega Wisconsin Wis. was used as a luciferase internal standard. For PPRE reporter gene assay 50 ng of pGL3 PPRE acyl CoA oxidase luciferase reporter 50 ng of expression plasmid pCMX PPAR and 50 ng of phrG TK vector internal standard were cotransfected as per the manufacture s instruction. Twenty four hrs after the transfection different concentration of 25HC3S rosiglitazone and or T0070907 were added and incubated for another 24 hrs. Luciferase activities were determined using the Dual Glo Luciferase Assay System according to the manufacturer s protocol Promega Wisconsin Wis. . The amount of luciferase activity was measured using a TopCount NXT Microplate Scintillation and Luminescence Counter Packard Meriden Conn. and normalized to the amount of phG TK luciferase activity. Transfections were carried out in triplicate for each sample and each experiment was repeated three times.

THP 1 derived macrophages were cultured on coverslips in six well plates and treated with different concentrations of 25HC and 25HC3S for 4 hrs. The cells on coverslips were washed with PBS fixed with 3.7 formaldehyde for 10 min at 4 C. and then rinsed three times with PBS at room temperature. They were then permeabilized with PBS containing 0.1 of TritonX 100 for 3 min and washed with PBS before blocking by incubation with 5 of normal goat serum in PBS overnight at 4 C. For interaction with primary antibodies cells were incubated with 2.5 normal goat serum in PBS containing PPAR antibody for 1 hr in an incubator. Cells were washed in PBS containing 0.05 of Tween 20 3 10 min . The bound primary antibodies were visualized with Alexa Fluor 488 goat anti mouse IgG. The minor groove of double stranded DNA as a nuclear marker was stained by DAPI. Afterwashing coverslips were mounted on slides and viewed with a Zeiss LSM 510 Meta confocal microscope. Scalebar 10 m.

Total RNA was isolated from THP 1 derived macrophages following treatments for 6 hrs otherwise as indicated using SV Total RNA Isolation Kit Promega Wisconsin Wis. which includes DNase treatment. Two microgram of total RNA was used for first strand cDNA synthesis as recommended by manufacturer Invitrogen Carlsbad Calif. . Real time RT PCR was performed using SYBR Green as indicator on ABI 7500 Fast Real Time PCR System Applied Biosystems Foster City Calif. . The final reaction mixture contained 10 ng of cDNA 100 nM of each primer 10 l of 2 SYBR Green PCR Master Mix Applied Biosystems Foster City Calif. and RNase free water to complete the reaction mixture volume to 20 l. All reactions were performed in triplicate. PCR was carried out for 40 cycles of 95 C. for 15 s and 60 C. for 1 min. The fluorescence was read during the reaction allowing a continuous monitoring of the amount of PCR product. The data was normalized to internal control GAPDH. The sequences of primers are used as recommended at the website located at pga.mgh.harvard.edu primerband as shown in Table 2.

A total of 1 10macrophages were treated with LPS 1 g ml and or different concentrations of 25HC or 25HC3S for 24 hrs. Supernatants were harvested and cytokines IL 1 and TNF concentration were measured by enzyme linked immunosorbent assay ELISA according to manufacturer s instruction SuperArray Bioscience Frederick Md. . SiRNA mediated macrophage RNA interference

pSilencer2.1 U6 neo siRNA expression vector and negative control for RNAi were purchased from Ambion Inc. Austin Tex. . Three human PPAR oligonucleotide sequences GACTCAGCTCTACAATAAG siRNA1 SEQ ID NO 13 GCGATTCCTTCACTGATAC siRNA2 SEQ ID NO 14 and GCTTATCTATGACAGATGT siRNA3 SEQ ID NO 15 were selected as specific siRNAs to target human PPAR . Synthetic sense and antisense oligonucleotides were annealed by incubated at 90 C. for 3 min and then at 37 C. for 1 hr. The double stranded oligonucleotides were cloned into the BamH I Hind III sites of the pSilencer2.1 U6 neo vector according manufacturer s protocol. The control RNA interference RNAi sequence was a randomly scrambled and was not found in the mouse human or rat genome databases. All of the constructs were confirmed by sequencing. THP 1 macrophages were transfected with a PPAR siRNA or control RNAi using FugeneHD reagent according to the manufacturer s instructions Roche Applied Science Indianapolis Ind. . After incubation for 4 hrs the medium was changed with normal medium and compounds were added at appropriate concentrations as indicated. Cells were harvested after 48 hrs following the addition and PPAR protein levels were determined using western blot and mRNA levels of inflammatory response factors were measured by real time RT PCR analysis.

Data are reported as mean standard deviation SD . Where indicated data were subjected to t test or ANOVA analysis and determined to be significantly different at p

To examine the effect of 25HC3S and its precursor 25HC on PPAR activation total nuclear proteins were extracted and nuclear PPAR levels were determined by western blot analysis. As shown in addition of 25HC3S to the macrophages led to significant concentration upper panels and time data not shown dependent increases in nuclear PPAR protein levels. To confirm the increasing 52 kDa band was PPAR protein an artificial PPAR ligand rosiglitazone was used as positive control and a specific antagonist T0070907 as negative control . As shown in 25HC3S and rosiglitazone substantially increased nuclear PPAR levels Lane R while T0070907 decreased the level Lane T . In contrast 25HC decreased PPAR levels middle figures of . It was noticed that the increases or decreases in the nuclear PPAR levels occurred only in the early stages less than 4 hrs data not shown . Summaries of the concentration dependent increases or decreases after normalization to nuclear protein lamin are shown in the lower panel of . These results suggest that 25HC3S functions as a PPAR agonist and 25HC as an antagonist. To further confirm that 25HC3S binds with the same molecule as the artificial antagonist a competitive assay was performed. In the presence of the antagonist T0070907 25HC3S failed to increase the nuclear PPAR levels to its maxima. However the levels of inhibition could be partially reversed following increasing concentration of 25HC3S as shown in the top panel of . In contrast rosiglitazone increased nuclear PPAR levels and the increased levels could be significantly inhibited by the presence of 25HC as shown in the middle panel of . These results suggested that 25HC3S T0070907 and 25HC rosiglitazone are competitive and they bind with the same molecule PPAR . Real time RT PCR analysis showed that neither 25HC nor 25HC3S was able to change PPAR mRNA levels significantly data not shown suggesting these oxysterols have no effect on its transcriptional regulation.

Double immunofluorescence studies using DAPI for the nuclear marker together with the PPAR antibody showed that PPAR proteins were widely distributed in the cytosols and nuclei of the macrophages compared with DMSO administration of 25HC3S increased the nuclear PPAR fluorescence intensities administration of the antagonist T0070907 decreased the intensity and blunted 25HC3S stimulation. The results imply that 25HC3S increases PPAR levels in the nuclei by increasing nuclear translocation.

25HC3S Addition Increases PPAR Response Transcriptional Activities and Represses Inflammatory Responses

To study the transcriptional activities of the nuclear extracts from 25HC3S treated macrophages PPAR responsive elements PPRE immobilized ELISA and PPRE reporter gene assay were carried out as shown in . ELISA assay showed that addition of 25HC3S significantly increased the PPRE binding activities of the nuclear extracts which is concentration dependent p

Consistently 25HC3S represses the LPS induced releases of IL 1 and TNF in the macrophages. Addition of LPS increased TNF release by 50 fold data not shown and increased IL 1 releases by 10 fold Lanes C and L which was similar with previous reports 32 33 . Interestingly addition of 25HC3S significantly decreased LPS induced IL 1 release but 25HC increased IL release p

TNF can activate I B kinase which phosphorylates I B followed by its ubiquitination and subsequent degradation. In the absence of TNF 25HC3S treatment decreased p

To investigate whether the NF B regulation is PPAR dependent H441 cells were transfected with pNF B dependent reporter gene Luc expression plasmid alone or co transfected with PPAR expression plasmid. In the absence of PPAR expression plasmid TNF induced the reporter gene expression by 10 fold and 25HC3S failed to suppress its induction as shown in left panel of . In the co transfected cells the presence of PPAR expression TNF still induced the reporter gene expression by 10 fold but 25HC3S reduced its induction by 50 Right panel of . Furthermore in the presence of PPAR antagonist the suppression was blunted Right panel of . The results suggested that the suppression of TNF induced NF B dependent reporter gene expression by 25HC3S requires the presence of PPAR protein.

To confirm that the suppression of LPS induced TNF and IL expression is PPAR dependent specific siRNAs were used to knock down PPAR . Following transfection of the recombinant plasmid encoding specific siRNAs for 48 hrs about 45 of the cells were viable and harvested. About 90 of PPAR protein levels were suppressed and their levels were not changed in the presence of 12 M of 25HC3S as shown in . Consistently 25HC3S significantly increased I B mRNA levels by 2.5 folds and in the presence of TNF 25HC3S increased the levels by 6 folds which can be abolished by PPAR specific siRNA . As expected LPS stimulated TNF by 40 folds and IL 1 expression by 12 folds and 12 M of 25HC3S significantly suppressed LPS induced TNF IL 1 and NF B expression p

To further confirm that 25HC3S 25HC regulates inflammatory responses through I B NF B signaling pathway the effects of these two oxysterols on I B expression were examined. When the macrophages were treated with 25HC3S the expression I B at protein and mRNA levels were significantly increased . Western blot analysis showed that 25HC3S increased and 25HC decreased I B protein levels Upper panel of . When treated with 25HC the mRNA level had no significantly changed p 0.05 by ANOVA analysis but the protein levels were significantly concentration dependent decreased p

Previous reports show that 25HC and 25HC3S serve as ligands agonist and antagonist respectively of LXR nuclear receptor 21 24 . In the present study we have shown that 25HC3S increases nuclear PPAR cytosol I B and decreases nuclear NF B protein levels increases PPAR transcriptional activities and I B expression subsequently inhibits the TNF and LPS induced inflammatory factor expressions and releases in human THP 1 derived macrophages. In contrast its precursor 25HC a known LXR ligand basically has an opposite function. Thus the present results provide strong evidence that 25HC and 25HC3S not only coordinately regulate lipid metabolism by LXR SREBP 1 21 24 but also inflammatory responses by PPAR I B NF B signaling pathway 46 . The role of oxysterols including 25HC in inflammation is controversial. The nuclear receptors LXR and PPAR regulate inflammation in different ways and respond to distinct signaling pathways 3 . PPARs and LXRs both exert positive and negative control over the expression of a range of metabolic and inflammatory genes. Although LXRs as well as PPAR can transrepress several inflammatory genes in a similar manner comparative DNA microarray studies have identified overlapping but distinct subsets of genes that are repressed by ligand binding 34 37 . Why these nuclear receptors use parallel molecular mechanisms to negatively regulate similar but distinct gene subsets in the same cell type remains an open and intriguing question 38 39 . In our previous publication we showed that 25HC is a potent agonist of LXR as others previously described but 25HC3S is a potent antagonist 21 . In the present study we have shown that 25HC is a potent PPAR antagonist and 25HC3S is a potent agonist. Thus both of the oxysterols can regulate inflammatory responses but via two different pathways. 25HC can suppress inflammatory response via LXR signaling pathway but stimulate the response via PPAR pathway 25HC3S can suppress inflammatory response via PPAR pathway but may interfere in a different direction by the LXR pathway. Several laboratories found that oxysterols including 25HC can activate LXRs subsequently repress a set of inflammatory genes after LPS and cytokines stimulation 40 41 . However many other studies found that oxysterols including 25HC induce inflammation and oxidation in different kinds of cells. For example 25HC substantially increased the IL 1 mRNA expression and secretion induced by LPS in human monocyte derived macrophages. 25HC is also a potent inducer of MCP 1 MIP 1 and IL 8 secretion in vitro 41 42 . 25HC treatments result in a significant increase in NF B transcriptional activity not only by affecting the I B degradation and the translocation of p65 NF B to the nucleus but also by regulating the p65 NF B transactivation 43 . Oxysterols also induce inflammation and oxidation through inducing slight mitochondrial dysfunctions and increasing reactive oxygen species ROS 43 . Previous study showed that PPAR agonists increase LXR and ABCA1 mRNA levels following incubation with the agonists for 24 hrs 44 . It was assumed that PPAR regulates inflammatory response through LXR pathway. However if the cells were incubated with the agonists for short times less than 6 hrs the results were completely different 21 . Previous studies have shown that 25HC3S decreases LXR activities and its targeting gene expressions in macrophages. In contrast LXR ligand 25HC increases nuclear LXR levels following short incubation time subsequently increases LXR targeting gene expressions inclusive of ABCA1 G1 and SREBP 1 mRNAs by 5 50 fold in 6 hrs. Furthermore 25HC3S blocked the stimulation of target gene expressions induced by 25HC or artificial LXR agonist. It was concluded that 25HC3S activates PPAR and modulates inflammatory response through PPAR not LXR signaling pathway in the macrophages. The present studies provide a new clue of the role that oxysterols and oxysterol sulfation may play in inflammation regulation via activation inactivation of the nuclear orphan receptors such as LXRs and PPARs.

Previous studies have shown that PPAR suppresses target gene expression of NFB nuclear factor of activated T cells NFAT activator protein 1 AP 1 and signal transducers and activator of transcription STATs in response to a variety of inflammatory stimuli including cytokines and TLR ligands 45 . The mechanisms involved in the repressive effects of PPAR have yet to be elucidated. In the present study it has been found that 25HC3S increases PPAR and decreases NFB protein levels in nuclei suppresses the expression of TNF induced NFB dependent reporter gene which is PPAR dependent induces IB expression and inhibits IL 1 and TNF expression . It is possible that 25HC3S activates PPAR which induces I B expression and inhibits I B degradation by suppressing of TNF expression. I B protein inhibits inflammatory responses by binding and inactivating NFB. Meanwhile the activated PPAR inhibits TNF expression which directly decreases IB ubiquitination and degradation. Thus 25HC3S attenuates the inflammatory response by increasing I B expression and decreasing IB ubiquitination and degradation through PPAR IB NFB signaling pathway as shown in .

36. C. Joffre L. Leclere B. Buteau L. Martine S. Cabaret L. Malvitte N. Acar G. Lizard A. Bron C. Creuzot Garcher and L. Bretillon Oxysterols induced inflammation and oxidation in primary porcine retinal pigment epithelial cells Curr. Eye Res. 32 2007 271.

While the invention has been described in terms of its preferred embodiments those skilled in the art will recognize that the invention can be practiced with modification within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. Accordingly the present invention should not be limited to the embodiments as described above but should further include all modifications and equivalents thereof within the spirit and scope of the description provided herein.

