---

title: Selective network parameter configuratons based on network identification of non-IMS multimedia applications
abstract: In a first embodiment, an access network detects whether QoS links for both IMS and non-IMS sessions are allocated to a client device, whereby the non-IMS session is recognized as being associated with a particular application type. An SRVCC feature for the IMS session is disabled if the QoS link for the non-IMS session exists and carries at least a threshold level of traffic. In a second embodiment, a non-IMS session is supported by a first network with QoS and is then handed off to a second network. After the handoff, the second network supports the non-IMS session with an application-specific QoS configuration based on application-identifying information provided from the first network. In a third embodiment, a single or dual-transceiver client device is engaged in a non-IMS session with QoS. A page originating from a CS network is ignored if a do-not-disturb feature is activated for the non-IMS session.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09357431&OS=09357431&RS=09357431
owner: QUALCOMM INCORPORATED
number: 09357431
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130828
---
The present application for patent claims priority to Provisional Application No. 61 695 726 entitled SELECTIVE NETWORK PARAMETER CONFIGURATIONS BASED ON NETWORK IDENTIFICATION OF NON IMS VOIP APPLICATIONS filed Aug. 31 2012 by the same inventors as the subject application assigned to the assignee hereof and hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

Embodiments of the invention relate to selective network parameter configurations based on network identification of non Internet Protocol IP Multimedia Subsystem IMS multimedia applications.

Wireless communication systems have developed through various generations including a first generation analog wireless phone service 1G a second generation 2G digital wireless phone service including interim 2.5G and 2.75G networks and third generation 3G and fourth generation 4G high speed data Internet capable wireless services. There are presently many different types of wireless communication systems in use including Cellular and Personal Communications Service PCS systems. Examples of known cellular systems include the cellular Analog Advanced Mobile Phone System AMPS and digital cellular systems based on Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Frequency Division Multiple Access FDMA Time Division Multiple Access TDMA the Global System for Mobile access GSM variation of TDMA and newer hybrid digital communication systems using both TDMA and CDMA technologies.

More recently Long Term Evolution LTE has been developed as a wireless communications protocol for wireless communication of high speed data for mobile phones and other data terminals. LTE is based on GSM and includes contributions from various GSM related protocols such as Enhanced Data rates for GSM Evolution EDGE and Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS protocols such as High Speed Packet Access HSPA .

In a first embodiment an access network detects whether QoS links for both IMS and non IMS sessions are allocated to a client device whereby the non IMS session is recognized as being associated with a particular application type. An SRVCC feature for the IMS session is disabled if the QoS link for the non IMS session exists and carries at least a threshold level of traffic. In a second embodiment a non IMS session is supported by a first network with QoS and is then handed off to a second network. After the handoff the second network supports the non IMS session with an application specific QoS configuration based on application identifying information provided from the first network. In a third embodiment a single or dual transceiver client device is engaged in a non IMS session with QoS. A page originating from a CS network is ignored if a do not disturb feature is activated for the non IMS session.

Aspects of the invention are disclosed in the following description and related drawings directed to specific embodiments of the invention. Alternate embodiments may be devised without departing from the scope of the invention. Additionally well known elements of the invention will not be described in detail or will be omitted so as not to obscure the relevant details of the invention.

The words exemplary and or example are used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any embodiment described herein as exemplary and or example is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments. Likewise the term embodiments of the invention does not require that all embodiments of the invention include the discussed feature advantage or mode of operation.

Further many embodiments are described in terms of sequences of actions to be performed by for example elements of a computing device. It will be recognized that various actions described herein can be performed by specific circuits e.g. application specific integrated circuits ASICs by program instructions being executed by one or more processors or by a combination of both. Additionally these sequence of actions described herein can be considered to be embodied entirely within any form of computer readable storage medium having stored therein a corresponding set of computer instructions that upon execution would cause an associated processor to perform the functionality described herein. Thus the various aspects of the invention may be embodied in a number of different forms all of which have been contemplated to be within the scope of the claimed subject matter. In addition for each of the embodiments described herein the corresponding form of any such embodiments may be described herein as for example logic configured to perform the described action.

A client device referred to herein as a user equipment UE may be mobile or stationary and may communicate with a radio access network RAN . As used herein the term UE may be referred to interchangeably as an access terminal or AT a wireless device a subscriber device a subscriber terminal a subscriber station a user terminal or UT a mobile terminal a mobile station and variations thereof. Generally UEs can communicate with a core network via the RAN and through the core network the UEs can be connected with external networks such as the Internet. Of course other mechanisms of connecting to the core network and or the Internet are also possible for the UEs such as over wired access networks WiFi networks e.g. based on IEEE 802.11 etc. and so on. UEs can be embodied by any of a number of types of devices including but not limited to PC cards compact flash devices external or internal modems wireless or wireline phones and so on. A communication link through which UEs can send signals to the RAN is called an uplink channel e.g. a reverse traffic channel a reverse control channel an access channel etc. . A communication link through which the RAN can send signals to UEs is called a downlink or forward link channel e.g. a paging channel a control channel a broadcast channel a forward traffic channel etc. . As used herein the term traffic channel TCH can refer to either an uplink reverse or downlink forward traffic channel.

Referring to UEs 1 . . . N are configured to communicate with an access network e.g. the RAN an access point etc. over a physical communications interface or layer shown in as air interfaces and or a direct wired connection. The air interfaces and can comply with a given cellular communications protocol e.g. CDMA EVDO eHRPD GSM EDGE W CDMA LTE etc. while the air interface can comply with a wireless IP protocol e.g. IEEE 802.11 . The RAN includes a plurality of access points that serve UEs over air interfaces such as the air interfaces and . The access points in the RAN can be referred to as access nodes or ANs access points or APs base stations or BSs Node Bs eNode Bs and so on. These access points can be terrestrial access points or ground stations or satellite access points. The RAN is configured to connect to a core network that can perform a variety of functions including bridging circuit switched CS calls between UEs served by the RAN and other UEs served by the RAN or a different RAN altogether and can also mediate an exchange of packet switched PS data with external networks such as Internet . The Internet includes a number of routing agents and processing agents not shown in for the sake of convenience . In UE N is shown as connecting to the Internet directly i.e. separate from the core network such as over an Ethernet connection of WiFi or 802.11 based network . The Internet can thereby function to bridge packet switched data communications between UE N and UEs 1 . . . N via the core network . Also shown in is the access point that is separate from the RAN . The access point may be connected to the Internet independent of the core network e.g. via an optical communication system such as FiOS a cable modem etc. . The air interface may serve UE or UE over a local wireless connection such as IEEE 802.11 in an example. UE N is shown as a desktop computer with a wired connection to the Internet such as a direct connection to a modem or router which can correspond to the access point itself in an example e.g. for a WiFi router with both wired and wireless connectivity .

Referring to an application server is shown as connected to the Internet the core network or both. The application server can be implemented as a plurality of structurally separate servers or alternately may correspond to a single server. As will be described below in more detail the application server is configured to support one or more communication services e.g. Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP sessions Push to Talk PTT sessions group communication sessions social networking services etc. for UEs that can connect to the application server via the core network and or the Internet .

Examples of protocol specific implementations for the RAN and the core network are provided below with respect to to help explain the wireless communications system in more detail. In particular the components of the RAN and the core network corresponds to components associated with supporting packet switched PS communications whereby legacy circuit switched CS components may also be present in these networks but any legacy CS specific components are not shown explicitly in .

In the core network includes the above noted SGSN B and potentially a number of other SGSNs as well and a GGSN B. Generally GPRS is a protocol used in GSM for routing IP packets. The GPRS core network e.g. the GGSN B and one or more SGSNs B is the centralized part of the GPRS system and also provides support for W CDMA based 3G access networks. The GPRS core network is an integrated part of the GSM core network i.e. the core network that provides mobility management session management and transport for IP packet services in GSM and W CDMA networks.

The GPRS Tunneling Protocol GTP is the defining IP protocol of the GPRS core network. The GTP is the protocol which allows end users e.g. UEs of a GSM or W CDMA network to move from place to place while continuing to connect to the Internet as if from one location at the GGSN B. This is achieved by transferring the respective UE s data from the UE s current SGSN B to the GGSN B which is handling the respective UE s session.

Three forms of GTP are used by the GPRS core network namely i GTP U ii GTP C and iii GTP GTP Prime . GTP U is used for transfer of user data in separated tunnels for each packet data protocol PDP context. GTP C is used for control signaling e.g. setup and deletion of PDP contexts verification of GSN reach ability updates or modifications such as when a subscriber moves from one SGSN to another etc. . GTP is used for transfer of charging data from GSNs to a charging function.

Referring to the GGSN B acts as an interface between a GPRS backbone network not shown and the Internet . The GGSN B extracts packet data with associated a packet data protocol PDP format e.g. IP or PPP from GPRS packets coming from the SGSN B and sends the packets out on a corresponding packet data network. In the other direction the incoming data packets are directed by the GGSN connected UE to the SGSN B which manages and controls the Radio Access Bearer RAB of a target UE served by the RAN . Thereby the GGSN B stores the current SGSN address of the target UE and its associated profile in a location register e.g. within a PDP context . The GGSN B is responsible for IP address assignment and is the default router for a connected UE. The GGSN B also performs authentication and charging functions.

The SGSN B is representative of one of many SGSNs within the core network in an example. Each SGSN is responsible for the delivery of data packets from and to the UEs within an associated geographical service area. The tasks of the SGSN B includes packet routing and transfer mobility management e.g. attach detach and location management logical link management and authentication and charging functions. The location register of the SGSN B stores location information e.g. current cell current VLR and user profiles e.g. IMSI PDP address es used in the packet data network of all GPRS users registered with the SGSN B for example within one or more PDP contexts for each user or UE. Thus SGSNs B are responsible for i de tunneling downlink GTP packets from the GGSN B ii uplink tunnel IP packets toward the GGSN B iii carrying out mobility management as UEs move between SGSN service areas and iv billing mobile subscribers. As will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art aside from i iv SGSNs configured for GSM EDGE networks have slightly different functionality as compared to SGSNs configured for W CDMA networks.

The RAN e.g. or UTRAN in UMTS system architecture communicates with the SGSN B via a Radio Access Network Application Part RANAP protocol. RANAP operates over a Iu interface Iu ps with a transmission protocol such as Frame Relay or IP. The SGSN B communicates with the GGSN B via a Gn interface which is an IP based interface between SGSN B and other SGSNs not shown and internal GGSNs not shown and uses the GTP protocol defined above e.g. GTP U GTP C GTP etc. . In the embodiment of the Gn between the SGSN B and the GGSN B carries both the GTP C and the GTP U. While not shown in the Gn interface is also used by the Domain Name System DNS . The GGSN B is connected to a Public Data Network PDN not shown and in turn to the Internet via a Gi interface with IP protocols either directly or through a Wireless Application Protocol WAP gateway.

In the core network includes a plurality of Mobility Management Entities MMEs D and D a Home Subscriber Server HSS D a Serving Gateway S GW D a Packet Data Network Gateway P GW D and a Policy and Charging Rules Function PCRF D. Network interfaces between these components the RAN and the Internet are illustrated in and are defined in Table 1 below as follows 

A high level description of the components shown in the RAN and core network of will now be described. However these components are each well known in the art from various 3GPP TS standards and the description contained herein is not intended to be an exhaustive description of all functionalities performed by these components.

Referring to the MMEs D and D are configured to manage the control plane signaling for the EPS bearers. MME functions include Non Access Stratum NAS signaling NAS signaling security Mobility management for inter and intra technology handovers P GW and S GW selection and MME selection for handovers with MME change.

Referring to the S GW D is the gateway that terminates the interface toward the RAN . For each UE associated with the core network for an EPS based system at a given point of time there is a single S GW. The functions of the S GW D for both the GTP based and the Proxy Mobile IPv6 PMIP based S5 S8 include Mobility anchor point Packet routing and forwarding and setting the DiffServ Code Point DSCP based on a QoS Class Identifier QCI of the associated EPS bearer.

Referring to the P GW D is the gateway that terminates the SGi interface toward the Packet Data Network PDN e.g. the Internet . If a UE is accessing multiple PDNs there may be more than one P GW for that UE however a mix of S5 S8 connectivity and Gn Gp connectivity is not typically supported for that UE simultaneously. P GW functions include for both the GTP based S5 S8 Packet filtering by deep packet inspection UE IP address allocation setting the DSCP based on the QCI of the associated EPS bearer accounting for inter operator charging uplink UL and downlink DL bearer binding as defined in 3GPP TS 23.203 UL bearer binding verification as defined in 3GPP TS 23.203. The P GW D provides PDN connectivity to both GSM EDGE Radio Access Network GERAN UTRAN only UEs and E UTRAN capable UEs using any of E UTRAN GERAN or UTRAN. The P GW D provides PDN connectivity to E UTRAN capable UEs using E UTRAN only over the S5 S8 interface.

Referring to the PCRF D is the policy and charging control element of the EPS based core network . In a non roaming scenario there is a single PCRF in the HPLMN associated with a UE s Internet Protocol Connectivity Access Network IP CAN session. The PCRF terminates the Rx interface and the Gx interface. In a roaming scenario with local breakout of traffic there may be two PCRFs associated with a UE s IP CAN session A Home PCRF H PCRF is a PCRF that resides within a HPLMN and a Visited PCRF V PCRF is a PCRF that resides within a visited VPLMN. PCRF is described in more detail in 3GPP TS 23.203 and as such will not be described further for the sake of brevity. In the application server e.g. which can be referred to as the AF in 3GPP terminology is shown as connected to the core network via the Internet or alternatively to the PCRF D directly via an Rx interface. Generally the application server or AF is an element offering applications that use IP bearer resources with the core network e.g. UMTS PS domain GPRS domain resources LTE PS data services . One example of an application function is the Proxy Call Session Control Function P CSCF of the IP Multimedia Subsystem IMS Core Network sub system. The AF uses the Rx reference point to provide session information to the PCRF D. Any other application server offering IP data services over cellular network can also be connected to the PCRF D via the Rx reference point.

In the eHRPD RAN includes a plurality of base transceiver stations BTSs E E and E which are connected to an enhanced BSC eBSC and enhanced PCF ePCF E. The eBSC ePCF E can connect to one of the MMEs D or D within the EPS core network A over an S interface and to an HRPD serving gateway HS GW E over A10 and or A11 interfaces for interfacing with other entities in the EPS core network A e.g. the S GW D over an S interface the P GW D over an S2a interface the PCRF D over a Gxa interface a 3GPP AAA server not shown explicitly in over an STa interface etc. . The HS GW E is defined in 3GPP2 to provide the interworking between HRPD networks and EPS LTE networks. As will be appreciated the eHRPD RAN and the HS GW E are configured with interface functionality to EPC LTE networks that is not available in legacy HRPD networks.

Turning back to the eHRPD RAN in addition to interfacing with the EPS LTE network A the eHRPD RAN can also interface with legacy HRPD networks such as HRPD network B. As will be appreciated the HRPD network B is an example implementation of a legacy HRPD network such as the EV DO network from . For example the eBSC ePCF E can interface with an authentication authorization and accounting AAA server E via an A12 interface or to a PDSN FA E via an A10 or A11 interface. The PDSN FA E in turn connects to HA A through which the Internet can be accessed. In certain interfaces e.g. A13 A16 H1 H2 etc. are not described explicitly but are shown for completeness and would be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art familiar with HRPD or eHRPD.

Referring to it will be appreciated that LTE core networks e.g. and HRPD core networks that interface with eHRPD RANs and HS GWs e.g. can support network initiated Quality of Service QoS e.g. by the P GW GGSN SGSN etc. in certain cases.

While internal components of UEs such as the UEs A and B can be embodied with different hardware configurations a basic high level UE configuration for internal hardware components is shown as platform in . The platform can receive and execute software applications data and or commands transmitted from the RAN that may ultimately come from the core network the Internet and or other remote servers and networks e.g. application server web URLs etc. . The platform can also independently execute locally stored applications without RAN interaction. The platform can include a transceiver operably coupled to an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other processor microprocessor logic circuit or other data processing device. The ASIC or other processor executes the application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident programs in the memory of the wireless device. The memory can be comprised of read only or random access memory RAM and ROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. The platform also can include a local database that can store applications not actively used in memory as well as other data. The local database is typically a flash memory cell but can be any secondary storage device as known in the art such as magnetic media EEPROM optical media tape soft or hard disk or the like.

Accordingly an embodiment of the invention can include a UE e.g. UE A B etc. including the ability to perform the functions described herein. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art the various logic elements can be embodied in discrete elements software modules executed on a processor or any combination of software and hardware to achieve the functionality disclosed herein. For example ASIC memory API and local database may all be used cooperatively to load store and execute the various functions disclosed herein and thus the logic to perform these functions may be distributed over various elements. Alternatively the functionality could be incorporated into one discrete component. Therefore the features of the UEs A and B in are to be considered merely illustrative and the invention is not limited to the illustrated features or arrangement.

The wireless communication between the UEs A and or B and the RAN can be based on different technologies such as CDMA W CDMA time division multiple access TDMA frequency division multiple access FDMA Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing OFDM GSM or other protocols that may be used in a wireless communications network or a data communications network. As discussed in the foregoing and known in the art voice transmission and or data can be transmitted to the UEs from the RAN using a variety of networks and configurations. Accordingly the illustrations provided herein are not intended to limit the embodiments of the invention and are merely to aid in the description of aspects of embodiments of the invention.

Referring to the communication device includes logic configured to receive and or transmit information . In an example if the communication device corresponds to a wireless communications device e.g. UE A or B one of BSs A through A one of Node Bs B through B one of eNodeBs D through D etc. the logic configured to receive and or transmit information can include a wireless communications interface e.g. Bluetooth WiFi 2G CDMA W CDMA 3G 4G LTE etc. such as a wireless transceiver and associated hardware e.g. an RF antenna a MODEM a modulator and or demodulator etc. . In another example the logic configured to receive and or transmit information can correspond to a wired communications interface e.g. a serial connection a USB or Firewire connection an Ethernet connection through which the Internet can be accessed etc. . Thus if the communication device corresponds to some type of network based server e.g. PDSN SGSN GGSN S GW P GW MME HSS PCRF the application etc. the logic configured to receive and or transmit information can correspond to an Ethernet card in an example that connects the network based server to other communication entities via an Ethernet protocol. In a further example the logic configured to receive and or transmit information can include sensory or measurement hardware by which the communication device can monitor its local environment e.g. an accelerometer a temperature sensor a light sensor an antenna for monitoring local RF signals etc. . The logic configured to receive and or transmit information can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to receive and or transmit information to perform its reception and or transmission function s . However the logic configured to receive and or transmit information does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to receive and or transmit information relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to the communication device further includes logic configured to process information . In an example the logic configured to process information can include at least a processor. Example implementations of the type of processing that can be performed by the logic configured to process information includes but is not limited to performing determinations establishing connections making selections between different information options performing evaluations related to data interacting with sensors coupled to the communication device to perform measurement operations converting information from one format to another e.g. between different protocols such as .wmv to .avi etc. and so on. For example the processor included in the logic configured to process information can correspond to a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration. The logic configured to process information can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to process information to perform its processing function s . However the logic configured to process information does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to process information relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to the communication device further includes logic configured to store information . In an example the logic configured to store information can include at least a non transitory memory and associated hardware e.g. a memory controller etc. . For example the non transitory memory included in the logic configured to store information can correspond to RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. The logic configured to store information can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to store information to perform its storage function s . However the logic configured to store information does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to store information relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to the communication device further optionally includes logic configured to present information . In an example the logic configured to present information can include at least an output device and associated hardware. For example the output device can include a video output device e.g. a display screen a port that can carry video information such as USB HDMI etc. an audio output device e.g. speakers a port that can carry audio information such as a microphone jack USB HDMI etc. a vibration device and or any other device by which information can be formatted for output or actually outputted by a user or operator of the communication device . For example if the communication device corresponds to UE A or UE B as shown in the logic configured to present information can include the display A of UE A or the touchscreen display B of UE B. In a further example the logic configured to present information can be omitted for certain communication devices such as network communication devices that do not have a local user e.g. network switches or routers remote servers etc. . The logic configured to present information can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to present information to perform its presentation function s . However the logic configured to present information does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to present information relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to the communication device further optionally includes logic configured to receive local user input . In an example the logic configured to receive local user input can include at least a user input device and associated hardware. For example the user input device can include buttons a touchscreen display a keyboard a camera an audio input device e.g. a microphone or a port that can carry audio information such as a microphone jack etc. and or any other device by which information can be received from a user or operator of the communication device . For example if the communication device corresponds to UE A or UE B as shown in the logic configured to receive local user input can include the keypad A any of the buttons A or B through B the touchscreen display B etc. In a further example the logic configured to receive local user input can be omitted for certain communication devices such as network communication devices that do not have a local user e.g. network switches or routers remote servers etc. . The logic configured to receive local user input can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to receive local user input to perform its input reception function s . However the logic configured to receive local user input does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to receive local user input relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to while the configured logics of through are shown as separate or distinct blocks in it will be appreciated that the hardware and or software by which the respective configured logic performs its functionality can overlap in part. For example any software used to facilitate the functionality of the configured logics of through can be stored in the non transitory memory associated with the logic configured to store information such that the configured logics of through each performs their functionality i.e. in this case software execution based in part upon the operation of software stored by the logic configured to store information . Likewise hardware that is directly associated with one of the configured logics can be borrowed or used by other configured logics from time to time. For example the processor of the logic configured to process information can format data into an appropriate format before being transmitted by the logic configured to receive and or transmit information such that the logic configured to receive and or transmit information performs its functionality i.e. in this case transmission of data based in part upon the operation of hardware i.e. the processor associated with the logic configured to process information .

Generally unless stated otherwise explicitly the phrase logic configured to as used throughout this disclosure is intended to invoke an embodiment that is at least partially implemented with hardware and is not intended to map to software only implementations that are independent of hardware. Also it will be appreciated that the configured logic or logic configured to in the various blocks are not limited to specific logic gates or elements but generally refer to the ability to perform the functionality described herein either via hardware or a combination of hardware and software . Thus the configured logics or logic configured to as illustrated in the various blocks are not necessarily implemented as logic gates or logic elements despite sharing the word logic. Other interactions or cooperation between the logic in the various blocks will become clear to one of ordinary skill in the art from a review of the embodiments described below in more detail.

Sessions that operate over networks such as 1 EV DO in UMTS based W CDMA in LTE in and eHRPD in can be supported on channels e.g. RABs flows etc. for which a guaranteed quality level is reserved which is referred to as Quality of Service QoS . For example establishing a given level of QoS on a particular channel may provide one or more of a minimum guaranteed bit rate GBR on that channel a maximum delay jitter latency bit error rate BER and so on. QoS resources can be reserved or setup for channels associated with real time or streaming communication sessions such as Voice over IP VoIP sessions group communication sessions e.g. PTT sessions etc. online games IP TV and so on to help ensure seamless end to end packet transfer for these sessions.

GBR QoS EPS bearers in LTE can be associated with a preconfigured QCI for Conversational Voice traffic denoted as QCI 1 which is associated with a specific QoS configuration for the associated GBR EPS bearers. Any VoIP application engaging in VoIP sessions over the LTE core network can invoke QCI 1 . Generally different multimedia services that interact with the LTE core network are assigned different APNs for their operation over the LTE core network. For example IP Multimedia Subsystem IMS applications use an IMS specific APN whereas a non IMS application denoted herein as App can used an App specific APN and so on.

Voice Over LTE VoLTE is an IMS based VoIP solution for LTE that uses QCI 1 . A GBR bearer with QCI 1 is configured for VoLTE with the following requirements 

However the typical VoLTE parameters for which QCI 1 is configured may not be suitable for other VoIP applications which use the GBR bearer with QCI 1 as well but with the traffic model and network architecture different than VoLTE. For example App may correspond to a half duplex VoIP application with a traffic model that can diverge from VoLTE. For instance i App can bundle more than 1 e.g. 6 vocoder frames per RTP packet such that SPS is not efficient for App traffic and ii as the RTP UDP IP header overhead per RTP packet can be minimal for App due to the bundling factor of 6 RoHC is less critical and it may thereby not be imperative to enable RoHC to avoid the compressing decompressing delays. Also App may support delay sensitive communication sessions that are associated with an Always On GBR bearer S5 connection even in RRC Idle state i to reduce QoS bearer setup delays during call setup e.g. as conventional GBR media bearer setup as in VoLTE may be too slow and ii to reduce the period for which media traffic is sent on the non GBR Best effort or QoS flow during a call before the GBR media bearer is fully setup . Also App and other non IMS based VoIP applications may not have interfaces to the IMS network to support anchoring the voice call on a CS network and thereby may not benefit from the above noted SRVCC feature for VoLTE instead the App and other non IMS applications may prefer the CS call to be handled by the EV DO core network or a 1 data network . Conventional VoLTE also does not typically evaluate the actual data activity on the GBR EPS bearer or non GBR EPS bearer to control the GBR or other QoS parameters for the GBR EPS bearer.

Conventionally the eNodeB D is aware of the QCI for a particular GBR EPS bearer such as QCI 1 for VoLTE but the eNodeB D is not aware of the APN for the GBR EPS bearer associated with that QCI. Thus the eNodeB D generally cannot distinguish between a VoLTE session allocated QCI 1 and an App session or other non IMS session allocated QCI 1 . Accordingly applying application specific or APN specific QCI configurations in LTE networks can be difficult. A conventional procedure that uses the QCI as a call type identifier for loading QoS resources for an IMS session will now be described with respect to .

Referring to a UE registers A with MME D. For example the UE may activate in a coverage area of the LTE RAN served by MME D or the UE may be handed off to the LTE RAN served by MME D. As part of the registration process MME D obtains and stores A a profile of the UE that includes a UE identifier such as an International Mobile Subscriber Identity IMSI or any other UE identifier known in the art and information concerning the capabilities of the UE such as whether the UE is a single radio UE or that operates in or is capable of operating in a single radio mode. For example MME D may obtain this information from the UE as part of the registration process or the MME D may retrieve this information from HSS D or from a Home Location Register HLR or a Visited Location Register VLR that maintains such information when the UE registers with the MME.

Referring to at some point in time UE establishes A a communication session via the LTE core network whereby the communication session is controlled by an IMS network not shown via a Mobile Switching Center MSC Server MSC Server Media Gateway MGW A and is anchored at a Voice Call Continuity Application Server VCC AS not shown . The communication session includes a voice component such as an IMS telephony session. When the communication session is set up the UE is allocated a bearer path in the LTE RAN and the LTE core network that includes one or more bearer channels in an air interface and one or more S1 bearer tunnels in an S1 interface including a voice bearer tunnel and a non voice bearer tunnel if non voice bearer data is involved whereby voice data and non voice data then are exchanged with the UE as part of the communication session. Further as part of the set up of the communication session the UE is assigned by the LTE RAN a call type identifier i.e. a QCI that is associated with a voice call. Further as part of the call set up the LTE RAN conveys the call type identifier to MME D along with the UE identifier. MME D then stores the call type identifier in association with the UE identifier. However the LTE RAN may convey the indicator to MME D as part of a handoff request conveyed to the MME as described below.

While the UE is engaged in the communication session via LTE core network the UE monitors qualities in particular a signal strength or alternatively any of a variety of other signal qualities such as a signal to noise ratio SNR a carrier to interference ratio C I pilot power to total power Ec Io ratio a bit error rate BER or a frame error rate FER of pilots associated with each of the serving RAN that is LTE RAN and one or more neighboring RANs such as a RAN of a circuit switched network circuit switched RAN A . The UE may self determine when or whether to monitor the pilots associated with the circuit switched RAN A or may monitor the pilots in response to receiving an instruction to do so from the LTE core network .

The UE reports A the monitored pilot s in accordance with well known reporting procedures. For example when a quality of a pilot of the circuit switched RAN A and more particularly of an air interface is measured by the UE when operating in LTE core network and exceeds an inter system handoff threshold or a quality of a previously reported pilot of LTE core network and more particularly of an air interface is measured by the UE when operating in LTE core network and falls below an intra system handoff threshold the UE may report the monitored pilot s back to LTE RAN . LTE RAN then stores the reported pilot measurements.

Based on the pilot measurements associated with LTE RAN and the circuit switched RAN A and reported by the UE the LTE core network determines A to handoff the communication session. For example when a pilot of the LTE RAN compares unfavorably to is below in the case of a signal strength threshold the intra system handoff threshold and or a pilot of one or more measured RANs such as the circuit switched RAN A compares favorably to exceeds in the case of a signal strength threshold the inter system handoff threshold this may indicate a desirability of a handoff.

In response to determining to handoff the communication session the LTE RAN assembles a request to handoff the communication session that includes the measurements and that further identifies the UE to be handed off. The request further includes a handoff target identifier such as an identifier of a target RAN A that is the circuit switched RAN A or of a target cell or target cell radio technology category associated with the circuit switched RAN A and as noted above may include a call type indicator such as a QCI indicating that the communication session includes a voice component. The LTE RAN then conveys A the handoff request to MME D.

Based on the target RAN A or a target cell identifier and with reference to the configuration information maintained by MME D the MME D determines A the MSC Server A and target MSC that is MSC A associated with the target RAN that is the circuit switched RAN A. Further based on the configuration information maintained for MSC A by MME D the MME D determines that the UE is moving to a circuit switched network that is the circuit switched RAN A and based on and the received identifier of the UE retrieves the UE capability information maintained by the MME D or received by the MME D from the LTE core network and further based on a call type indicator for voice bearer determines that the UE is invoking a SRVCC handoff procedure. More particularly in response to receiving the request MME D determines based on the profile of the UE maintained by the MME D that the UE is a single radio UE or at least is capable of operating in a single radio mode. MME D further determines based on the QCI associated with the communication session that the communication session includes a voice component and in light of the determination that the UE is a single radio UE and target MSC A supports circuit switched voice calls that the UE is requesting and therefore determines to implement a SRVCC handoff procedure. MME D also determines based on the configuration information maintained by the MME D for MSC A that the MSC A supports a SRVCC handoff procedure.

Based on the determination that the communication session includes a voice component that this is an SRVCC handoff and that MSC A supports SRVCC if multimedia sessions are active in the UE then the MME D splits A the routing of the voice component or bearer of the communication session from a routing of any non voice component or bearer of the communication session in order to handoff only the voice component of the communication session to the circuit switched RAN A and MSC A. If the UE has the capability of simultaneously for voice and packet service in the target circuit switched RAN A MME D further may determine another RAN that is part of a packet data network for a handoff of any such non voice component for example a video component of the communication session. Otherwise the non voice component may be suspended.

MME D then requests A a handoff of the voice component of the communication session to the circuit switched RAN A and MSC A and an allocation of resources to the UE by the circuit switched RAN A and MSC A by conveying a Forward Relocation Request message to MSC Server MGW A. As is known in the art the Forward Relocation Request message may comprise a relocation type a cause an identifier of the UE such as a Meaning Category Mobile Station Integrated Services Data Network MSISDN identifiers of source the LTE RAN and target circuit switched RAN A a Source to Target Transparent Container a session transfer number and mobility management MM context information. MME D may obtain the session transfer number and MSISDN from HSS D when the UE registers with that is attaches to the MME D and then stores the VDN and MSISDN in the UE s profile at the MME or obtains session transfer number at the time of call establishment.

In response to receiving the handoff and resource allocation request from MME D MSC Server MGW A conveys A a handoff and resource allocation request to target MSC A. That is MSC Server MGW A interworks the packet data network handoff and resource allocation request received from MME D with a circuit switched network inter MSC handoff request and conveys the circuit switched network inter MSC handoff request such as a Prepare Handover Request message to target MSC A. The Prepare Handover Request message identifies the UE and the target circuit switched RAN A.

In response to receiving the handoff and resource allocation request from MSC Server MGW A MSC A instructs A the circuit switched RAN A to allocate resources to the UE by conveying a Relocation Request message to the circuit switched RAN A. In response to receiving the Relocation Request message circuit switched RAN A allocates resources such as radio access bearer RAB parameters to the UE and acknowledges A the allocation of the resources and identifies the allocated resources by conveying a Relocation Request Acknowledgement message to MSC A. In response to receiving the Relocation Request Acknowledgement message MSC A conveys A a Handover Preparation Response message back to MSC Server MGW A that identifies the resources allocated by circuit switched RAN A and includes a handover number HO for establishment of a circuit connection between the MSC A and MSC Server MGW A. Target MSC A and MSC Server MGW A then allocate A resources for the handoff of the UE including establishing a circuit connection between the MSC and the MSC Server MGW via an exchange of ISUP IAM ISDN User Part Initial Address Message and ISUP ACM Address Complete Message messages.

As discussed above with respect to a set of preconfigured call type identifiers or QCIs can be used for loading preconfigured QoS configurations for IMS sessions. However in information that identifies a specific application e.g. a particular multimedia application arbitrated to a particular server over the Internet etc. is not used to load a specific customized or application specific QoS configuration. Instead conventionally the multimedia application would be forced to use one of the preconfigured QCIs and thereby one of the associated preconfigured QoS configurations. Embodiments of the invention are directed to a number of different implementations for selectively loading application specific features support parameter configurations at LTE network components.

In a first embodiment of the invention the LTE standard permits QCIs in a range between 128 255 to be reserved and one or more of the QCIs in this range can be reserved with an application specific QCI configuration e.g. for App . A given QCI QCI can thereby be reserved for App such that when a GBR EPS bearer associated with QCI is activated on a given UE the eNodeB D does not perform SRVCC does not enable RoHC etc. and the P GW D and S GW D maintain the GBR EPS bearer s S5 connection in an Always On state even when the given UE is in RCC Idle state although its air interface resources may be permitted to lapse in RCC Idle state. As will be appreciated this embodiment requires the LTE standard to be updated to recognize QCI it may be difficult for each LTE network component to distinguish between application specific traffic and to reserve a different QCI for each application type and even if some additional QCIs are defined for non IMS based VoIP applications such as App different of these applications may be assigned to the same QCI even if the different non IMS based VoIP applications have different requirements from each other.

In a second embodiment of the invention LTE network components e.g. eNodeB S GW P GW etc. can use Differentiated Services Code Point DSCP marking assuming each voice application on the UE marks the IP header of the media packets with a DSCP different than IMS solution to identify when traffic is active for a non IMS solution and each of the LTE network component can activate features support parameter configuration separately for each application based on the DSCP marking. As will be appreciated VoIP applications in this embodiment may attempt to use Expedited forwarding and thus uniquely identifying each application type via DSCP marking may be difficult.

In a third embodiment of the invention LTE network components e.g. eNodeB S GW P GW etc. can use a combination of QCI and APN to identify the application e.g. App etc. using the GBR EPS bearer and then activate application specific features support parameter configuration separately for each application based on its unique QCI and APN combination. As noted above the eNodeB D does not typically have access to the APN information of a GBR EPS bearer so additional procedures can be adopted into the LTE standard to pass the APN information of the GBR EPS bearer to the eNodeB D. For example the MME D can pass the APN information to the eNodeB D. Also operators can define rules at each entity on what features configuration are applicable for a specific QCI APN combination. As will be appreciated this embodiment provides APN specific feature support parameter configuration granularity and flexibility for operators in defining the service performance for each application. It will also be appreciated that this embodiment requires the LTE standard to be modified to accommodate a new APN field in messaging between the MME D and the eNodeB D and also between different eNodeBs. Several of the embodiments below are described with respect to this third embodiment which may be referred to as the QCI APN embodiment because a combination of the QCI and APN are used to signal the appropriate configuration to be loaded for a particular QoS bearer. However it will be readily appreciated that certain of the embodiments described below could be modified based on the first and or second embodiments for identifying the appropriate application specific configuration and the QCI APN references are provided mainly for convenience of explanation.

Below illustrates an Always On QoS setup procedure for a particular GBR EPS bearer and shows how the APN information can be exchanged during a QoS setup procedure for a particular GBR EPS bearer that is not Always On . Because the S GW D and P GW D are already provisioned with the APN information and illustrates a scenario where the S GW D and P GW D keep the App GBR EPS bearer Always On the propagation of the APN information to the eNodeB D shown in is not strictly necessary for . The App identifying information in can be exchanged via a reserved QCI first embodiment DSCP signaling second embodiment or an APN QCI combination third embodiment in .

Referring to corresponds to an initial procedure whereby a given UE sets up a non QoS EPS bearer. The setup of the non QoS EPS bearer begins with the given UE in an RRC Idle state after which a System Information reading operation is performed the Non Access Stratum NAS layer at the given UE initiates EPS attach and PDN connectivity procedures the given UE and the LTE core network engage in an RRC connection and context set up procedure after which the given UE is transitioned into the RRC Connected state . At this point a default EPS bearer or non GBR QoS EPS bearer is established for the given UE and an Always On S5 connection is set up for the default EPS bearer . The default EPS bearer can be used to support applications that exchange data for which QoS e.g. GBR etc. is not required such as web browsing applications Email applications and so on.

The remainder of describes setup of a GBR EPS bearer for a high priority GBR application which is denoted as App . For LTE networks App can correspond to any application that requires GBR QoS on an associated EPS media bearer for supporting its communication sessions e.g. PTT sessions VoIP sessions etc. and that uses a dedicated Access Point Name APN where the dedicated APN is configured to specifically identify App to external devices such as components of the LTE core network . In non LTE networks App can be supported on other types of QoS bearers.

Accordingly after the given UE launches App sends a PDN Connectivity Request for App to the MME D and the MME D sends a Create Session Request e.g. configured with EPS Bearer QoS QCI 5 to the P GW PCRF D D . At this point the LTE core network can initiate set up of the dedicated bearer for App s PDN connection or alternatively the application server or UE request the dedicated GBR EPS bearer setup . In either case the P GW PCRF D D sends a Create Session Response message e.g. which can be configured as EPS Bearer QoS QCI 5 Create Bearer Request EPS Bearer QoS QCI QCI or 1 GBR UL DL X kbps to the MME D which sets up the GBR EPS bearer with a GBR that is specific to App e.g. a nominal data rate such as 1 kpbs or X kpbs . The MME D then delivers a Bearer Setup Request message e.g. which can be configured with Default EPS Bearer QoS QCI 5 Dedicated EPS Bearer QoS QCI QCIApp or 1 GBR UL DL XApp kbps to the eNodeB D to set up the App specific GBR and the eNodeB D allocates the GBR for App s GBR EPS bearer as requested . App s signaling bearer is setup and and App s GBR EPS media bearer is also setup and .

Turning to App in more detail App s media traffic model can be configured differently than the typical VoIP application traffic. For example App can be configured to bundle at least one e.g. 6 Vocoder frames into a single RTP packet and to transmit media packets every 120 ms. Thus the data rate and air interface configurations required for the App media bearer can be different than a VoIP media bearer which is referenced as QCI 1 in LTE networks. So it may not be suitable to use QCI 1 conversational voice for App .

The LTE standard can reserve a QCI in the range 128 255 for certain multimedia applications e.g. PTT applications and can allocate GBR QoS for this QCI. The S GW D and P GW D can identify App s GBR EPS bearer during initial bearer setup or bearer setup due to 2 or 51 based handover based on the reserved QCI for App App QCI for signaling and or media or alternatively based upon QCI 1 where the GBR EPS bearer is associated with an APN that is known to be related to App so the LTE core network knows to use App s specialized QoS parameters instead of the typical QCI 1 QoS parameters . In an example the recognition of the App specific GBR EPS bearer can be used to prompt the LTE network components e.g. such as the MME D to identify App s GBR EPS bearer and to perform actions based upon this recognition such as selectively caching the GBR parameters for the GBR EPS bearer of a particular APN for quickly bringing up S5 connections after an RRC Idle to Connected transition. The eNodeB D can identify App s GBR EPS bearer during initial bearer setup bearer setup due to 2 or 51 based handover based on the reserved App QCI to provide the requested QoS treatment. This procedure is shown in .

Referring to the given UE the eNodeB D and the MME D perform a service request procedure and the given UE delivers a PDN connectivity request for App to the MME D . Optionally an authentication procedure can be performed for the given UE with the PCRF D . The MME D delivers a Create Session Request to the S GW D for App and the S GW D delivers a Create Session Request to the P GW D for App . The P GW D and the PCRF D then engage in an IP CAN session during which the PCRF D detects the App APN and applies App QCIto the default bearer and initiates a dedicated bearer with App QCI .

Referring to the P GW D identifies the GBR EPS Bearer as an App EPS Bearer based on App QCIand being associated with App s APN . The P GW D sends a Create Session Response Create Bearer Request to the S GW D that indicates App QCI . The S GW D identifies the GBR EPS Bearer as an App EPS Bearer based on App QCIand being associated with App s APN . The S GW D sends a Create Session Response Create Bearer Request to the MME D that indicates App QCI and the MME D in turn sends a PDN Connectivity Accept Dedicated Bearer Set Request message to the eNodeB D that indicates App QCI . The MME D and the eNodeB D identifies the GBR EPS Bearer as an App EPS Bearer based on App QCI . The GBR EPS bearer for media is then setup with App QCI and the default EPS bearer for App s signaling is setup with App QCI as shown in the signaling between which will be readily understood by one of ordinary skill in the art familiar with QoS setup in LTE networks.

Further as discussed above with respect to IMS applications IMS typically enables SRVCC for seamlessly switching calls between CS and PS networks. illustrates a conventional PS to CS call transition or handoff for an IMS session.

Referring to the LTE RAN is illustrated as well as certain PS components of the LTE core network from . Specifically the MME D and S GW D are shown in . Also shown in is a 1 CS SRVCC enabled UE A which is served by the LTE RAN or E UTRAN during an IMS call and then undergoes a handoff to a 1 RTT CS RAN . Once transitioned to the 1 RTT CS RAN the 1 CS SRVCC UE is referenced as B. The PS to CS handoff is managed at the LTE core network via interfacing the MME D with a 1 CS Interworking Service IWS over an S reference point and to an 1 RTT Mobile Switching Center MSC over an A1 interface. The IMS call is arbitrated by an IMS server both before and after the handoff although the IMS server is connected to the 1 CS SRVCC UE over the different RANs before and after the handoff.

An embodiment of the invention is directed to disabling SRVCC for non IMS calls such as App calls. As noted above SRVCC is typically enabled for any calls that are carried upon GBR EPS bearers setup with QCI 1 . Below a discussion of SRVCC is discussed with respect to 3GPP TS 23.216v9.8.0 after which the selective SRVCC disabling scenarios are discussed with respect to .

As noted above SRVCC relates to voice call continuity between the IMS server over PS access and CS access for calls that are anchored in IMS when the UE is capable of transmitting receiving on only one of those networks at a given time. SRVCC enabled UEs include a SRVCC capability indication as part of the UE Network Capability in the Attach Request message. The MME D stores this information for SRVCC operation. If the MME D supports interworking with CS network 3GPP or 3GPP2 and the SRVCC UE also indicated support for SRVCC to the MME D the MME D includes a SRVCC operation possible indication in an S1 AP Initial Context Setup Request to the eNodeB D indicating that both the UE and MME D are SRVCC capable. If the E UTRAN operator or LTE RAN supports interworking to 3GPP2 1 CS or 3GPP the E UTRAN performs the HO trigger tunnelling of the 3GPP2 1 CS signalling messages toward the MME and interacting with the SRVCC UE as described in TR 36.938 7 .

The E UTRAN may be capable of determining the neighbour cell list NCL based on the SRVCC operation possible indication and or presence of established QCI 1 bearers for a specific UE. For example the E UTRAN may determine the NCL as follows 

As will be appreciated if the E UTRAN does not update the neighbour cell list dynamically and the E UTRAN triggers handover to 1 when either the SRVCC operation possible indication is set to false or there are no established QCI 1 bearers for a specific UE this will result in an error case.

Referring to the eNodeB D starts a data inactivity timer for each GBR EPS bearer e.g. with QCI 1 or with an application specific QCI such as QCI after the respective bearer is established for the given UE in RRC Connected state . For example the eNodeB D starts the data inactivity timer s after of . While not shown in the eNodeB D resets the data inactivity timer s when traffic is detected on the respective bearer such that expiration of the data inactivity timer s occurs after a threshold period of traffic inactivity and expiration of the data inactivity timer s triggers teardown of at least air interface resources associated with the respective bearer.

Referring to the eNodeB determines whether the given UE is allocated a GBR EPS bearer associated with an IMS APN . If not the SRVCC feature does not apply . If so the eNodeB D determines if there is another GBR EPS bearer e.g. QCI 1 or QCI for a non IMS APN and if the associated data inactivity timer for that bearer has not yet expired . If not CS cells are added to the NCL to support handover to CS . If so CS cells are not added to the NCL even though the MME D indicates SRVCC operation possible so that the SRVCC feature is not supported . Thus detection of an active GBR EPS bearer for App can cause eNodeB D to refrain from populating the NCL with CS cells so as to disable SRVCC for App calls.

When a UE hands off from an LTE network to 3GPP 3GPP2 network e.g. the eHRPD network of or the W CDMA network shown in or the SGSN B or HS GW E performs bi directional mapping of the QoS to provide support for both UE initiated and network initiated bearers. Conventionally the mapping between LTE QCIs and the EVDO FlowProfileIDs or UMTS Traffic Classes is a static configuration in the SGSN B and HS GW E i.e. a predefined mapping between the QoS parameters is maintained only considering the LTE QCI and not the APN associated with the bearer . However as discussed earlier it can be difficult to maintain a static mapping irrespective of the application type or APN associated with the bearer.

Thereby an embodiment of the invention is directed to maintaining at the HS GW E and or SGSN B a mapping for the QoS parameters FlowProfileIDs supported and the UMTS Traffic class supported for a particular bearer based on the QCI APN combination. Thereby when the H SGW E detects a GBR EPS bearer with a QCI APN for App during an LTE to eHRPD handoff the HS GW E can configure the QoS profile IDs for the corresponding QoS flows on the EV DO network. Likewise when the SGSN B detects an GBR EPS bearer with a QCI APN for App during an LTE to UMTS or W CDMA handoff the SGSN B can configure the Traffic Class as Interactive signaling indication 1 Traffic Handling Priority THP 1 and or other App specific QoS configurations on the UMTS or W CDMA network.

Referring to a given UE is participating in an App call being arbitrated by the application server over the LTE network . At some point during the App the given UE hands off from the LTE RAN to a non LTE RAN e.g. the UMTS or W CDMA RAN from the HRPD RAN from etc. . The LTE core network notifies a non LTE core network component with regard to the QCI APN that was associated with GBR EPS bearer while the App call was handled by the LTE network . For example the QCI APN notification of can be delivered to the HS GW E if the target network is eHRPD or the SGSN B if the target network is UMTS or W CDMA. The non LTE core network component loads the application specific bearer configuration for the App call based on the QCI APN using the mapping that was established at . The given UE then continues its participation in the App call being arbitrated by the application server over the non LTE network using the allocated application specific bearer configuration . While is described with respect to the QCI APN trigger for loading a particular application specific bearer configuration it will be appreciated that could be readily modified so as to be based upon either of the alternative trigger scenarios based upon a reserved QCI range 128 255 or DSCP marking.

In LTE a mechanism referred to as CS fallback CSFB enables the delivery of CS domain services e.g. CS voice by reuse of the CS infrastructure when the UE is served by E UTRAN. Whenever a UE originates a voice call if IMS service on LTE is not available the UE falls back to CS network for making the voice call over CS network. When an Incoming CS call is received for the UE over CS network the LTE network forwards the CS Page message to the UE and the UE fallback to CS network for proceeding with the voice call. This is applicable for both single TX and dual Tx dual Rx devices.

However in case of Single Tx devices i.e. UEs with a single antenna for tuning to LTE and non LTE cellular networks when a CS Page is received during an active VoIP call on the LTE network the UE tunes away from the LTE network to attach to the CS network respond to the page and setup the session over CS network. This interrupts the ongoing VoIP call on LTE. Further in case of Dual Tx Dual Rx devices the UE can listen to both LTE and CS networks and support sessions simultaneously on the same network. However for sessions using digital signal processing DSP resources for codec frame generation only one session can be supported regardless of the RF support for multiple technologies. Thus whenever a CS call is supported the VoIP call on LTE would be interrupted. As will be appreciated a user of the UE may prefer to not be interrupted by incoming CS voice calls when the UE is already engaged in a voice VoIP call over LTE network for both single Tx and Dual Tx devices.

Accordingly as discussed below with respect to an embodiment of the invention is directed to preventing interruption of App calls on LTE due to incoming CS call pages.

Referring to a user of a single Tx UE indicates a preference to not be disturbed during an on going App call A. At A the single Tx UE is actively engaged in an App call over the LTE network via serving Node B D and the eNodeB D allocates an App GBR EPS bearer to the single TX UE for supporting the App call A. During the App call the eNodeB D receives a CS page for the single Tx UE A and the eNodeB D transmits the CS page to the single Tx UE A. However because the user of the single Tx UE indicated his her preference for not interrupting App calls the CS page is ignored and the single Tx UE does not respond to the CS page A.

Referring to a user of a dual Tx UE equipped with a first TX TX1 tuned to the LTE network and a second TX TX2 tuned to the CS network indicates a preference to not be disturbed during an on going App call over LTE B. At B the dual Tx UE is actively engaged in an App call using TX1 over the LTE network via serving Node B D and the eNodeB D allocates an App GBR EPS bearer to the dual Tx UE for supporting the App call B. During the App call the CS network receives a CS page for the dual Tx UE and the CS network transmits the CS page to the dual Tx UE B. However because the user of the dual Tx UE indicated his her preference for not interrupting App calls TX2 determines that DSP resources are already being used by App for the App call over TX1 and the CS page is ignored and the dual Tx UE does not respond to the CS page B.

In LTE UEs report their respective UE capability information during an Attach procedure and explicitly when requested by eNodeB via UE capability Enquiry e.g. see 5.6.3 of 36.331 V9.6.0 . UEs can also send Tracking Area Update procedure to update any change in the UE Capability Information Reference Section 5.3.3 of 3GPP TS 23.401 v9.11.0 . Section 5.11 of 23.401 v9.11.0 specifies that if a given UE is performing an Attach procedure or a Tracking Area Update TAU procedure for the first TAU following GERAN UTRAN Attach or for UE radio capability update the MME shall delete or mark as deleted any UE Radio Capability information that it has stored and if the MME sends an S1 interface INITIAL CONTEXT SETUP REQUEST message during that procedure the MME shall not send any UE Radio Capability information to the E UTRAN in that message. This triggers the E UTRAN to request the UE Radio Capability from the UE and upload it to the MME in the S1 interface UE CAPABILITY INFO INDICATION message. The eNodeB updates the MME on the UE capabilities via the UE CAPABILITY INFO INDICATION 3GPP TS 36.413 v9.7.0 section 9.1.10. With this in mind a network side solution that operates within the LTE standard as explained in this paragraph whereas is directed to a network side solution that relies upon modifications to the LTE standard as explained in this paragraph.

Referring to a user of a given UE e.g. a single Tx UE or a dual Tx UE indicates a preference to not be disturbed during an on going App call over LTE . The given UE registers its users no disturbance preference and the given UE transmits a Tracking Area Update Request message to the MME D via the eNodeB D to prompt the MME D to initiate a UE radio capability update procedure . The MME D deletes the given UE s radio capability information and requests that the eNodeB D update the information . Accordingly the MME D sends an initial context setup request message to the eNodeB D without including a UE radio capability IE which prompts the eNodeB D to send a UE capability enquiry to the given UE . The given UE responds to the UE capability enquiry with UE capability information that sets a Reserved bit range 30 32 in the featureGroupIndicators IE of the UE EUTRA Capability IE defined at section 5.6.3 of 36.331 V9.6.0 . The UE capability information message from being configured in this manner functions to notify the eNodeB D of the given UE s no disturbance preference. The eNodeB D forwards the UE capability information to the MME D and also caches the no disturbance preference for the given UE .

Referring to the given UE begins an App call at and is assigned an App GBR EPS bearer based on QCI App APN . During the App call the eNodeB D receives a CS page for transmission to the given UE . Because the eNodeB D is aware of the active GBR EPS Bearer for App the eNodeB D determines whether to send the CS page to the given UE based on the UE s cached preference from . If the cached preference indicates that App calls can be disturbed the CS page is transmitted at . Otherwise if the cached preference indicates a no disturbance preference for App calls the CS page is ignored not transmitted to the given UE .

Referring to a user of a given UE e.g. a single Tx UE or a dual Tx UE indicates a preference to not be disturbed during an on going App call over LTE . The given UE registers its users no disturbance preference and the given UE transmits the new asynchronous UE Capability Information message to the eNodeB D . The eNodeB D is configured to support asynchronous reception of the UE Capability Information message and forwards the UE capability information to the MME D . The eNodeB D caches the no disturbance preference for the given UE . through of substantially correspond to through of respectively and will not be described further for the sake of brevity.

While the embodiments above have been described primarily with reference to 1 EV DO architecture in CDMA2000 networks GPRS architecture in W CDMA or UMTS networks and or EPS architecture in LTE based networks it will be appreciated that other embodiments can be directed to other types of network architectures and or protocols.

Those of skill in the art will appreciate that information and signals may be represented using any of a variety of different technologies and techniques. For example data instructions commands information signals bits symbols and chips that may be referenced throughout the above description may be represented by voltages currents electromagnetic waves magnetic fields or particles optical fields or particles or any combination thereof.

Further those of skill in the art will appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present invention.

The various illustrative logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

The methods sequences and or algorithms described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium is coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. The ASIC may reside in a user terminal e.g. UE . In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal.

In one or more exemplary embodiments the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored on or transmitted over as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage media may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Also any connection is properly termed a computer readable medium. For example if the software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative embodiments of the invention it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims. The functions steps and or actions of the method claims in accordance with the embodiments of the invention described herein need not be performed in any particular order. Furthermore although elements of the invention may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated.

