---

title: N-[3-(2-carboxyethyl)phenyl]piperidin-1-ylacetamide derivatives and use thereof as activators of soluble guanylate cyclase
abstract: The present application relates to novel substituted 2-(piperidin-1-yl)acetamide derivatives, to processes for preparation thereof, to the use thereof for treatment and/or prevention of diseases, and to the use thereof for production of medicaments for treatment and/or prevention of diseases, especially for treatment and/or prevention of cardiovascular diseases.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09309198&OS=09309198&RS=09309198
owner: BAYER PHARMA AKTIENGESELLSCHAFT
number: 09309198
owner_city: Berlin
owner_country: DE
publication_date: 20130517
---
This application is the national stage application under 35 U.S.C. 371 of PCT EP2013 060222 filed May 17 2013 which claims benefit of German application 102012208530.0 filed May 22 2012.

The present application relates to novel substituted 2 piperidin 1 yl acetamide derivatives to processes for preparation thereof to the use thereof for treatment and or prevention of diseases and to the use thereof for production of medicaments for treatment and or prevention of diseases especially for treatment and or prevention of cardiovascular diseases.

One of the most important cellular transmission systems in mammalian cells is cyclic guanosine monophosphate cGMP . Together with nitrogen monoxide NO which is released from the endothelium and transmits hormonal and mechanical signals it forms the NO cGMP system. Guanylate cyclases catalyse the biosynthesis of cGMP from guanosine triphosphate GTP . The representatives of this family known to date can be classified into two groups either by structural features or by the type of ligands the particulate guanylate cyclases which can be stimulated by natriuretic peptides and the soluble guanylate cyclases which can be stimulated by NO. The soluble guanylate cyclases consist of two subunits and contain one haem per heterodimer which is part of the regulatory centre. This is of central importance for the activation mechanism. NO is able to bind to the iron atom of haem and thus markedly increase the activity of the enzyme. Haem free preparations cannot by contrast be stimulated by NO. Carbon monoxide CO is also able to attack at the central iron atom of haem but the stimulation by CO is much less than that by NO.

By forming cGMP and owing to the resulting regulation of phosphodiesterases ion channels and protein kinases guanylate cyclase plays an important role in various physiological processes in particular in the relaxation and proliferation of smooth muscle cells in platelet aggregation and platelet adhesion and in neuronal signal transmission and also in disorders which are based on a disruption of the aforementioned processes. Under pathophysiological conditions the NO cGMP system can be suppressed which may lead for example to hypertension platelet activation increased cell proliferation endothelial dysfunction atherosclerosis angina pectoris heart failure thromboses stroke and myocardial infarct.

Owing to the expected high efficiency and low level of side effects a possible NO independent treatment for such disorders by targeting the influence of the cGMP signal pathway in organisms is a promising approach.

Hitherto for the therapeutic stimulation of the soluble guanylate cyclase use has exclusively been made of compounds such as organic nitrates whose effect is based on NO. The latter is formed by bioconversion and activates soluble guanylate cyclase by attacks at the central iron atom of haem. In addition to the side effects the development of tolerance is one of the crucial disadvantages of this mode of treatment O. V. Evgenov et al. 5 2006 755 .

Substances which directly stimulate soluble guanylate cyclase i.e. without previous release of NO have been identified in recent years. The indazole derivative YC 1 was the first NO independent but haem dependent sGC stimulator described Evgenov et al. ibid. . Based on YC 1 further substances were discovered which are more potent than YC 1 and show no relevant inhibition of phosphodiesterases PDE . This led to the identification of the pyrazolopyridine derivatives BAY 41 2272 BAY 41 8543 and BAY 63 2521. Together with the recently published structurally different substances CMF 1571 and A 350619 these compounds form the new class of the sGC stimulators Evgenov et al. ibid. . A common characteristic of this substance class is an NO independent and selective activation of the haem containing sGC. In addition the sGC stimulators in combination with NO have a synergistic effect on sGC activation based on a stabilization of the nitrosyl haem complex. The exact binding site of the sGC stimulators at the sGC is still being debated. If the haem group is removed from the soluble guanylate cyclase the enzyme still has a detectable catalytic basal activity i.e. as before cGMP is formed. The remaining catalytic basal activity of the haem free enzyme cannot be stimulated by any of the stimulators mentioned above Evgenov et al. ibid. .

In addition NO and haem independent sGC activators were identified with BAY 58 2667 being a prototype of this class. Common characteristics of these substances are that in combination with NO they have only an additive effect on enzyme activation and that the activation of the oxidized or haem free enzyme is markedly stronger than that of the haem containing enzyme Evgenov et al. ibid. J. P. Stasch et al. 136 2002 773 J. P. Stasch et al. 116 2006 2552 . It is evident from spectroscopic investigations that BAY 58 2667 displaces the oxidized haem group which as a result of the weakened iron histidine bond is attached only weakly to the sGC. It has also been shown that the characteristic sGC haem binding motive Tyr x Ser x Arg is imperative both for interaction of the negatively charged propionic acids of the haem group and for the activity of BAY 58 2667. Against this background it is assumed that the binding site of BAY 58 2667 to sGC is identical to the binding site of the haem group J. P. Stasch et al. 116 2006 2552 .

The compounds described in the present invention are likewise capable of activating the haem free form of soluble guanylate cyclase. This is also confirmed by the fact that firstly these novel activators display no synergistic effect with NO at the haem containing enzyme and secondly their action cannot be blocked by the haem dependent inhibitor of soluble guanylate cyclase 1H 1 2 4 oxadiazolo 4 3 a quinoxalin 1 one ODQ but is even potentiated by this inhibitor cf. O. V. Evgenov et al. 5 2006 755 J. P. Stasch et al. 116 2006 2552 .

Accordingly it was an object of the present invention to provide novel compounds which act as activators of soluble guanylate cyclase in the manner described above and can be used as such in particular for the treatment and prevention of cardiovascular disorders.

WO 94 12181 A1 discloses substituted aryl compounds as fibrinogen receptor antagonists for the prevention of thromboses and embolisms and EP 0 638 553 A1 describes carboxamides having a terminal carboxyl group as antithrombotically active compounds. WO 02 36553 A2 discloses substituted phenylalkanecarboxylic acids as inhibitors of cell adhesion. WO 2006 066948 A1 describes piperidine derivatives having anti inflammatory action. EP 1 939 189 A1 claims multicyclic compounds having PPAR agonistic activity for the treatment of disorders of lipid metabolism. WO 2011 051165 A1 discloses phenylacetamido substituted 3 phenylpropionic acids acting as activators of soluble guanylate cyclase.

Compounds according to the invention are the compounds of the formula I and their salts solvates and solvates of the salts the compounds encompassed by formula I of the formulae mentioned below and their salts solvates and solvates of the salts and the compounds encompassed by formula I and mentioned below as working examples and their salts solvates and solvates of the salts if the compounds encompassed by formula I and mentioned below are not already salts solvates and solvates of the salts.

Preferred salts in the context of the present invention are physiologically acceptable salts of the compounds according to the invention. Also encompassed are salts which are not themselves suitable for pharmaceutical applications but can be used for example for the isolation purification or storage of the compounds according to the invention.

Physiologically acceptable salts of the inventive compounds include acid addition salts of mineral acids carboxylic acids and sulphonic acids for example salts of hydrochloric acid hydrobromic acid sulphuric acid phosphoric acid methanesulphonic acid ethanesulphonic acid benzenesulphonic acid toluenesulphonic acid naphthalenedisulphonic acid formic acid acetic acid trifluoroacetic acid propionic acid lactic acid tartaric acid malic acid citric acid fumaric acid maleic acid and benzoic acid.

Physiologically acceptable salts of the compounds according to the invention also include salts of conventional bases by way of example and with preference alkali metal salts e.g. sodium and potassium salts alkaline earth metal salts e.g. calcium and magnesium salts and ammonium salts derived from ammonia or organic amines having 1 to 16 carbon atoms by way of example and with preference ethylamine diethylamine triethylamine N N diisopropylethylamine monoethanolamine diethanolamine triethanolamine dimethylaminoethanol diethylaminoethanol procaine dicyclohexylamine dibenzylamine N methylmorpholine N methylpiperidine arginine lysine and 1 2 ethylenediamine.

Solvates in the context of the invention are described as those forms of the compounds according to the invention which form a complex in the solid or liquid state by coordination with solvent molecules. Hydrates are a specific form of the solvates in which the coordination is with water. Solvates preferred in the context of the present invention are hydrates.

The compounds according to the invention may depending on their structure exist in different stereoisomeric forms i.e. in the form of configurational isomers or else optionally as conformational isomers enantiomers and or diastereomers including those in the case of atropisomers . The present invention therefore encompasses the enantiomers and diastereomers and the respective mixtures thereof. The stereoisomerically homogeneous constituents can be isolated from such mixtures of enantiomers and or diastereomers in a known manner chromatography processes are preferably used for this purpose especially HPLC chromatography on an achiral or chiral phase.

Where the compounds according to the invention can occur in tautomeric forms the present invention encompasses all the tautomeric forms.

The present invention also encompasses all suitable isotopic variants of the compounds according to the invention. An isotopic variant of a compound according to the invention is understood here as meaning a compound in which at least one atom within the compound according to the invention has been exchanged for another atom of the same atomic number but with a different atomic mass than the atomic mass which usually or predominantly occurs in nature. Examples of isotopes which can be incorporated into a compound according to the invention are those of hydrogen carbon nitrogen oxygen phosphorus sulphur fluorine chlorine bromine and iodine such as H deuterium H tritium C C N O O P P S S S S F Cl Br I I I and I. Particular isotopic variants of a compound according to the invention especially those in which one or more radioactive isotopes have been incorporated may be beneficial for example for the examination of the mechanism of action or of the active compound distribution in the body due to comparatively easy preparability and detectability especially compounds labelled with H or C isotopes are suitable for this purpose. In addition the incorporation of isotopes for example of deuterium can lead to particular therapeutic benefits as a consequence of greater metabolic stability of the compound for example to an extension of the half life in the body or to a reduction in the active dose required such modifications of the compounds according to the invention may therefore in some cases also constitute a preferred embodiment of the present invention. Isotopic variants of the compounds according to the invention can be prepared by generally customary processes known to those skilled in the art for example by the methods described below and the procedures reported in the working examples by using corresponding isotopic modifications of the particular reagents and or starting compounds therein.

In addition the present invention also encompasses prodrugs of the compounds according to the invention. The term prodrugs refers here to compounds which may themselves be biologically active or inactive but are converted while present in the body for example by a metabolic or hydrolytic route to compounds according to the invention.

The present invention comprises as prodrugs in particular hydrolysable ester derivatives of the carboxylic acids of the formula I according to the invention. These are to be understood as meaning esters which can be hydrolysed to the free carboxylic acids as the main biologically active compounds in physiological media under the conditions of the biological tests described hereinbelow and in particular in vivo by enzymatic or chemical routes. C C alkyl esters in which the alkyl group can be straight chain or branched are preferred as such esters. Particular preference is given to methyl ethyl or tert butyl esters.

In the context of the present invention unless specified otherwise the substituents are defined as follows 

In the context of the invention C C alkyl represents a straight chain or branched alkyl radical having 1 to 4 carbon atoms. Preferred examples include methyl ethyl n propyl isopropyl n butyl isobutyl sec butyl and tert butyl.

In the context of the present invention it is the case that for all radicals which occur more than once their meaning is independent of the others. When radicals in the compounds according to the invention are substituted the radicals may be mono or polysubstituted unless specified otherwise. Substitution by one or by two or three identical or different substituents is preferred. Substitution by one or by two identical or different substituents is particularly preferred.

A further particular embodiment of the present invention comprises compounds of the formula I in which

A further particular embodiment of the present invention comprises compounds of the formula I in which

A further particular embodiment of the present invention comprises compounds of the formula I in which

A further particular embodiment of the present invention comprises compounds of the formula I in which

A further particular embodiment of the present invention comprises compounds of the formula I in which

In the context of the present invention particular preference is given to compounds of the formula I in which

The individual radical definitions specified in the particular combinations or preferred combinations of radicals are independently of the particular combinations of the radicals specified also replaced as desired by radical definitions of other combinations. Very particular preference is given to combinations of two or more of the abovementioned preferred ranges.

The invention furthermore provides a process for preparing the compounds of the formula I according to the invention characterized in that a protected aminocarboxylic acid of the formula II 

Inert solvents for the process step II III IV amide coupling are for example ethers such as diethyl ether diisopropyl ether methyl tert butyl ether 1 2 dimethoxyethane bis 2 methoxyethyl ether tetrahydrofuran or 1 4 dioxane hydrocarbons such as benzene toluene xylene pentane hexane heptane cyclohexane or mineral oil fractions halogenated hydrocarbons such as dichloromethane trichloromethane carbon tetrachloride 1 2 dichloroethane trichloroethylene or chlorobenzene or dipolar aprotic solvents such as acetone acetonitrile ethyl acetate pyridine N N dimethylformamide DMF N N dimethylacetamide DMA dimethyl sulphoxide DMSO N methylpyrrolidinone NMP or N N dimethylpropyleneurea DMPU . It is also possible to use mixtures of these solvents. Preference is given to using dimethylformamide or a mixture of dimethylformamide and pyridine.

Suitable condensing agents for this coupling reaction are for example carbodiimides such as N N diethyl N N dipropyl N N diisopropyl N N dicyclohexylcarbodiimide DCC or N 3 dimethylaminopropyl N ethylcarbodiimide hydrochloride EDC phosgene derivatives such as N N carbonyldiimidazole CDI or isobutyl chloroformate 1 2 oxazolium compounds such as 2 ethyl 5 phenyl 1 2 oxazolium 3 sulphate or 2 tert butyl 5 methylisoxazolium perchlorate acylamino compounds such as 2 ethoxy 1 ethoxycarbonyl 1 2 dihydroquinoline chloroenamines such as 1 chloro 2 methyl 1 dimethylamino 1 propene phosphorus compounds such as propanephosphonic anhydride diethyl cyanophosphonate bis 2 oxo 3 oxazolidinyl phosphoryl chloride benzotriazol 1 yloxytris dimethylamino phosphonium hexafluorophosphate or benzotriazol 1 yloxytris pyrrolidino phosphonium hexafluorophosphate PyBOP or uronium compounds such as O benzotriazol 1 yl N N N N tetramethyluronium tetrafluoroborate TBTU O benzotriazol 1 yl N N N N tetramethyluronium hexafluorophosphate HBTU 2 2 oxo 1 2H pyridyl 1 1 3 3 tetramethyluronium tetrafluoroborate TPTU O 7 azabenzotriazol 1 yl N N N N tetramethyluronium hexafluorophosphate HATU or O 1H 6 chlorobenzotriazol 1 yl 1 1 3 3 tetramethyluronium tetrafluoroborate TCTU optionally in combination with further auxiliaries such as 1 hydroxybenzotriazole HOBt or N hydroxysuccinimide HOSu and also as bases alkali metal carbonates for example sodium carbonate or potassium carbonate or tertiary amine bases such as triethylamine N methylmorpholine N methylpiperidine N N diisopropylethylamine pyridine or 4 N N dimethylaminopyridine DMAP . Preference is given to using O 7 azabenzotriazol 1 yl N N N N tetramethyluronium hexafluorophosphate HATU in combination with pyridine.

The reaction II III IV is generally carried out in a temperature range from 0 C. to 60 C. preferably at from 10 C. to 40 C.

Suitable protective groups PGin compound II are customary amino protective groups such as for example allyloxycarbonyl Alloc benzyloxycarbonyl Z tert butoxycarbonyl Boc or 9 fluorenylmethoxycarbonyl Fmoc where the protective group PGis chosen such that the conditions of its removal in process step IV V are compatible with the respective ester radical Temployed of compound III see for example T. W. Greene and P. G. M. Wuts Wiley New York 1999 . Preference is given to using the allyloxycarbonyl or the benzyloxycarbonyl group. Removal of the allyloxycarbonyl group is preferably effected using dimedone 5 5 dimethylcyclohexane 1 3 dione in the presence of the tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium 0 catalyst whereas the benzyloxycarbonyl group is generally removed by hydrogenation hydrogenolysis in the presence of 5 10 palladium on activated carbon.

Reducing agents suitable for process step V VI VII VIII are customary alkali metal borohydrides such as lithium borohydride sodium borohydride or potassium borohydride sodium cyanoborohydride or sodium triacetoxyborohydride. Preference is given to using sodium cyanoborohydride. The reaction is generally carried out in the presence of an acid base mixture such as for example hydrochloric acid and triethylamine in an alcoholic solvent such as methanol ethanol or isopropanol. Depending on the reactivity of the respective components employed the reaction is generally carried out in a temperature range from 20 C. to 60 C.

The wrong cyclization product of the formula VIII formed in varying proportions during the borohydride mediated reaction of amine V with dialdehyde VI can likewise be converted by subsequent reduction with triethylsilane in trifluoroacetic acid as solvent into the desired cyclization product of the formula VII cf. for example D. N. Kursanov et al. 1974 633 651 U. Rosentreter 1985 210 212 which as a consequence allows a higher yield of VII to be realized. This transformation can optionally be carried out after prior separation of the two cyclization products VII and VIII or it can advantageously be carried out using excess triethylsilane directly with the purified product mixture obtained from the cyclization reaction.

Removal of the ester group Tin the process step VII I A is carried out by customary methods by treating the ester in an inert solvent with an acid or a base where in the latter variant the salt initially formed is converted by subsequent treatment with an acid into the free carboxylic acid. In the case of the tert butyl esters ester cleavage is preferably carried out using acids. Benzyl esters are preferably cleaved by hydrogenation hydrogenolysis in the presence of a suitable catalyst such as for example palladium on activated carbon.

Suitable inert solvents for these reactions are water or the organic solvents customary for ester cleavage. These preferably include alcohols such as methanol ethanol n propanol isopropanol n butanol or tert butanol ethers such as diethyl ether tetrahydrofuran 1 4 dioxane or 1 2 dimethoxyethane or other solvents such as acetone acetic acid dichloromethane N N dimethylformamide or dimethyl sulphoxide. It is equally possible to use mixtures of these solvents. In the case of a basic ester hydrolysis preference is given to using mixtures of water with dioxane tetrahydrofuran methanol and or ethanol. In the case of the reaction with trifluoroacetic acid preference is given to using dichloromethane and in the case of the reaction with hydrogen chloride tetrahydrofuran diethyl ether dioxane acetic acid and or water.

Suitable bases are the customary inorganic bases. These include in particular alkali metal or alkaline earth metal hydroxides for example lithium hydroxide sodium hydroxide potassium hydroxide or barium hydroxide or alkali metal or alkaline earth metal carbonates such as sodium carbonate potassium carbonate or calcium carbonate. Preference is given to lithium hydroxide sodium hydroxide or potassium hydroxide.

Suitable acids for the ester cleavage are generally sulphuric acid hydrogen chloride hydrochloric acid hydrogen bromide hydrobromic acid phosphoric acid acetic acid trifluoroacetic acid toluenesulphonic acid methanesulphonic acid or trifluoromethanesulphonic acid or mixtures thereof optionally with addition of water. Preference is given to hydrogen chloride or trifluoroacetic acid in the case of the tert butyl esters and to hydrochloric acid or sulphuric acid in the case of the methyl or ethyl esters.

The ester cleavage is generally carried out in a temperature range of from 20 C. to 100 C. preferably at from 0 C. to 60 C.

If the ester group Tin VII or VIII represents tert butyl under the conditions of the above described treatment of VIII or the mixture of VII and VIII with triethylsilane and trifluoroacetic acid there is a simultaneous removal of this ester group so that the compound of the formula I A according to the invention is obtained directly.

If appropriate compounds of the formula I according to the invention can also be prepared by alkylating an aminocarboxylic acid of the formula IX 

The alkylation reaction IX X XI is preferably carried out in water or in mixtures of water with water miscible organic solvents such as methanol ethanol tetrahydrofuran 1 4 dioxane 1 2 dimethoxyethane acetonitrile N N dimethylformamide or dimethyl sulphoxide. Suitable bases are in particular alkali metal hydroxides such as for example lithium hydroxide sodium hydroxide or potassium hydroxide or alkali metal or alkaline earth metal carbonates such as lithium carbonate sodium carbonate potassium carbonate calcium carbonate or caesium carbonate. Preference is given to using sodium hydroxide or potassium hydroxide. The reaction is generally carried out in a temperature range of from 50 C. to 150 C. preferably from 80 C. to 120 C.

The coupling reaction XI III VII is carried out under conditions analogous to those described above for the reaction II III IV .

Compounds of the formula I according to the invention in which Rand Rare attached to one another and together with the carbon atom to which they are attached form a cyclobutyl or cyclopentyl ring can also be prepared by reacting a cycloalkenylboronic acid or ester of the formula XII 

The preparation of the piperidinocarboxylic acid XIV from the cycloalkenylboronate XII glyoxalic acid and the piperidine derivative XIII is carried out analogously to a method described in the literature see N. A. Petasis and I. A. Zavialov 119 445 446 1997 . Here the addition of a tertiary amine base such as for example triethylamine or N N diisopropylethylamine is advantageous.

The hydrogenation XV XVI is generally carried out under a stationary hydrogen atmosphere at standard pressure or slightly elevated pressure. Suitable catalysts are in particular palladium or platinum on activated carbon as carrier material or platinum IV oxide. The reaction is carried out in an inert solvent customary for such purposes such as for example methanol ethanol tetrahydrofuran or ethyl acetate.

If the ester group Tin XV represents benzyl under the hydrogenation conditions there is also a simultaneous removal of this ester group such that here the compound of the formula I B according to the invention is obtained directly.

The coupling reaction XIV III XV and the ester cleavage XVI I B are carried out under conditions analogous to those described above for the reactions II III IV and VII I A .

The compounds of the formulae I A I B and I C which can be prepared by the processes described above are in each case subsets of the compounds of the general formula I according to the invention.

Suitable for the deprotonation of the carboxylic ester XVIII are in particular non nucleophilic strong bases such as for example sodium tert butoxide or potassium tert butoxide sodium hydride or potassium hydride lithium diisopropylamide or lithium bis trimethylsilyl amide sodium bis trimethylsilyl amide or potassium bis trimethylsilyl amide preference is given to using lithium diisopropylamide. The inert solvents employed are usually ethers such as diethyl ether diisopropyl ether methyl tert butyl ether tetrahydrofuran 1 2 dimethoxyethane or bis 2 methoxyethyl ether.

Following in situ conversion of the deprotonated ester into the silyl enol ester by addition of trimethylsilyl chloride the bromination to XIX is preferably carried out using N bromosuccinimide NBS . The reaction sequence is advantageously carried out as a one pot process and generally takes place in a temperature range of from 80 C. to 25 C.

The substitution reaction to give the azide compound XX is carried out by standard methods for example by treatment with sodium azide in a dipolar aprotic solvent such as N N dimethylformamide. The subsequent reduction to the amino acid ester XXI is preferably carried out by hydrogenation in the presence of a palladium on activated carbon catalyst in an alcoholic solvent such as methanol or ethanol.

The removal of the ester group Tin the process step XXI IX is carried out in a manner analogous to that described above for the ester radical T. Here in the case that the ester group Tin XX represents benzyl under the conditions of the hydrogenation XX XXI there is likewise a simultaneous removal of this ester group so that the target compound IX is obtained directly.

The introduction of the protective group PGat the stage of the aminocarboxylic acid IX or the corresponding ester XXI is carried out by generally customary methods see for example T. W. Greene and P. G. M. Wuts Wiley New York 1999 .

Depending on their substitution pattern the intermediates of the formula III can be prepared for example by either

Suitable for the deprotonation of the phosphono ester XXII in the olefination reactions XXII XXIII XXIV and XXII XXV XXVI Horner Wittig reaction are in particular non nucleophilic strong bases such as for example sodium hydride or potassium hydride lithium bis trimethylsilyl amide sodium bis trimethylsilyl amide or potassium bis trimethylsilyl amide or lithium diisopropylamide preference is given to using sodium hydride. Preferred inert solvents employed in this reaction are ethers such as diethyl ether diisopropyl ether methyl tert butyl ether tetrahydrofuran 1 2 dimethoxyethane or bis 2 methoxyethyl ether optionally as a mixture with N N dimethylformamide dimethyl sulphoxide or hydrocarbons such as pentane hexane or heptane. The reaction is generally carried out in a temperature range of from 20 C. to 40 C.

The hydrogenation in process steps XXIV III A XXVI III A and XXX III A is generally carried out under a stationary hydrogen atmosphere at standard pressure or elevated pressure. Here preferred catalysts are palladium or platinum on activated carbon as carrier material . The removal of the amino protective group s in the transformations XXVII III A XXXIV III B and XXXVIII III C is usually carried out by hydrogenolysis according to the same procedure in the case that PGin XXVII or XXXVIII represents 4 methoxybenzyl this may alternatively also be effected oxidatively for example with the aid of 2 3 dichloro 5 6 dicyano 1 4 benzoquinone DDQ or ammonium cerium IV nitrate.

The palladium catalyst employed for the reaction XXVIII XXIX XXX Heck reaction is preferably palladium II acetate or tris dibenzylideneacetone dipalladium 0 in each case in combination with a phosphine ligand such as for example tri tert butylphosphine triphenylphosphine or tri 2 tolylphosphine.

Suitable for the deprotonation of the carboxylic acid ester XXXI in the alkylation reaction XXXI XXXII XXXIII are in particular non nucleophilic strong bases such as for example sodium tert butoxide or potassium tert butoxide sodium hydride or potassium hydride lithium diisopropylamide lithium bis trimethylsilyl amide sodium bis trimethylsilyl amide or potassium bis trimethylsilyl amide or n sec or tert butyllithium preference is given to using lithium diisopropylamide or n butyllithium. Preferred inert solvents employed in this reaction are ethers such as diethyl ether diisopropyl ether methyl tert butyl ether tetrahydrofuran 1 2 dimethoxyethane or bis 2 methoxyethyl ether optionally as a mixture with N N dimethylformamide or hydrocarbons such as pentane hexane or heptane. The reaction is usually carried out in a temperature range of from 80 C. to 25 C.

For the transformation XXXIII XXXIV Buchwald Hartwig coupling with benzylamine preference is given to using tris dibenzylideneacetone dipalladium 0 as catalyst in combination with 2 2 bis diphenylphosphino 1 1 binaphthyl as phosphine ligand and sodium or potassium tert butoxide as base cf. for example J. P. Wolfe and S. L. Buchwald Coll. Vol. 10 423 2004 Vol. 78 23 2002 .

The coupling reactions XXXV XXXVI XXXVIII and XXXV XXXVII XXXVIII are carried out analogously to methods described in the literature see for example N. Miyaura et al. 16 4229 1997 T. Hayashi Special Issue 2001 879 887 P. Knochel et al. 56 2727 2731 2000 120 6907 6911 2008 .

The reactions described above can be carried out at atmospheric elevated or reduced pressure for example in the range from 0.5 to 5 bar in general the reactions are each carried out at atmospheric pressure.

Separation of the compounds according to the invention into the corresponding enantiomers and or diastereomers can if expedient also be carried out even at the stage of the compounds II III IV V VII IX XI XIV XV XVI XXI XXVII XXXIII XXXIV and or XXXVIII which are then in separated form reacted further in accordance with the process sequences described above. Such a separation of stereoisomers can be carried out by customary methods known to the person skilled in the art. In the context of the present invention preference is given to using chromatographic methods on achiral or chiral separation phases in the case of carboxylic acids as intermediates or end products separation may alternatively be effected via diastereomeric salts.

The compounds of the formulae VI X XII XIII XVII XVIII XXII XXIII XXV XXVIII XXIX XXXI XXXII XXXV XXXVI and XXXVII are either commercially available or described as such in the literature or they can be prepared by routes evident to the person skilled in the art analogously to methods published in the literature. Numerous detailed methods and literature information for preparation of the starting materials can also be found in the experimental part in the section for preparation of the starting compounds and intermediates.

The preparation of the compounds according to the invention can be illustrated by way of example by the following reaction schemes 

The compounds according to the invention have valuable pharmacological properties and can be used for prevention and treatment of diseases in humans and animals.

The compounds according to the invention are potent activators of soluble guanylate cyclase. They lead to vascular relaxation inhibition of platelet aggregation and lowering of blood pressure and they also increase coronary blood flow. These effects are mediated by a direct haem independent activation of soluble guanylate cyclase and an intracellular rise in cGMP.

In addition the compounds according to the invention have advantageous pharmacokinetic properties in particular with regard to their bioavailability and or duration of action following intravenous or oral administration.

The compounds according to the invention are especially suitable for treatment and or prevention of cardiovascular pulmonary thromboembolic and fibrotic disorders.

Accordingly the compounds according to the invention can be used in medicaments for the treatment and or prevention of cardiovascular disorders such as for example high blood pressure hypertension heart failure coronary heart disease stable and unstable angina pectoris pulmonary arterial hypertension PAH and other forms of pulmonary hypertension PH renal hypertension peripheral and cardiac vascular disorders arrhythmias atrial and ventricular arrhythmias and impaired conduction such as for example atrioventricular blocks degrees I III supraventricular tachyarrhythmia atrial fibrillation atrial flutter ventricular fibrillation ventricular flutter ventricular tachyarrhythmia Torsade de pointes tachycardia atrial and ventricular extrasystoles AV junctional extrasystoles sick sinus syndrome syncopes AV nodal re entry tachycardia Wolff Parkinson White syndrome acute coronary syndrome ACS autoimmune cardiac disorders pericarditis endocarditis valvolitis aortitis cardiomyopathies boxer cardiomyopathy aneurysms shock such as cardiogenic shock septic shock and anaphylactic shock furthermore for the treatment and or prophylaxis of thromboembolic disorders and ischaemias such as myocardial ischaemia myocardial infarction stroke cardiac hypertrophy transient and ischaemic attacks preeclampsia inflammatory cardiovascular disorders spasms of the coronary arteries and peripheral arteries oedema formation such as for example pulmonary oedema cerebral oedema renal oedema or oedema caused by heart failure peripheral circulatory disturbances reperfusion damage arterial and venous thromboses microalbuminuria myocardial insufficiency endothelial dysfunction micro and macrovascular damage vasculitis and also to prevent restenoses for example after thrombolysis therapies percutaneous transluminal angioplasties PTA percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasties PTCA heart transplants and bypass operations

In the context of the present invention the term heart failure encompasses both acute and chronic forms of heart failure and also specific or related disease types thereof such as acute decompensated heart failure right heart failure left heart failure global failure ischaemic cardiomyopathy dilated cardiomyopathy hypertrophic cardiomyopathy idiopathic cardiomyopathy congenital heart defects heart valve defects heart failure associated with heart valve defects mitral valve stenosis mitral valve insufficiency aortic valve stenosis aortic valve insufficiency tricuspid valve stenosis tricuspid valve insufficiency pulmonary valve stenosis pulmonary valve insufficiency combined heart valve defects myocardial inflammation myocarditis chronic myocarditis acute myocarditis viral myocarditis diabetic heart failure alcoholic cardiomyopathy cardiac storage disorders and diastolic and systolic heart failure.

In addition the compounds according to the invention can also be used for treatment and or prevention of arteriosclerosis impaired lipid metabolism hypolipoproteinaemias dyslipidaemias hypertriglyceridaemias hyperlipidaemias combined hyperlipidaemias hypercholesterolaemias abetalipoproteinaemia sitosterolaemia xanthomatosis Tangier disease adiposity obesity and metabolic syndrome.

The compounds according to the invention can additionally be used for treatment and or prevention of primary and secondary Raynaud s phenomenon microcirculation impairments claudication tinnitus peripheral and autonomic neuropathies diabetic microangiopathies diabetic retinopathy diabetic ulcers on the extremities gangrene CREST syndrome erythematosis onychomycosis and rheumatic disorders.

In addition the compounds according to the invention can be employed for the prevention of ischaemia and or reperfusion related damage to organs or tissues and as additive for perfusion and preservation solutions for organs organ parts tissues or tissue parts of human or animal origin in particular for surgical interventions or in the field of transplantation medicine.

The compounds according to the invention are also suitable for the treatment and or prevention of renal disorders in particular renal insufficiency and kidney failure. In the context of the present invention the terms renal insufficiency and kidney failure encompass both acute and chronic manifestations thereof and also underlying or related renal disorders such as renal hypoperfusion intradialytic hypotension obstructive uropathy glomerulopathies glomerulonephritis acute glomerulonephritis glomerulosclerosis tubulointerstitial diseases nephropathic disorders such as primary and congenital kidney disease nephritis immunological kidney disorders such as kidney transplant rejection and immunocomplex induced kidney disorders nephropathy induced by toxic substances nephropathy induced by contrast agents diabetic and non diabetic nephropathy pyelonephritis renal cysts nephrosclerosis hypertensive nephrosclerosis and nephrotic syndrome which can be characterized diagnostically for example by abnormally reduced creatinine and or water excretion abnormally elevated blood concentrations of urea nitrogen potassium and or creatinine altered activity of renal enzymes for example glutamyl synthetase altered urine osmolarity or urine volume elevated microalbuminuria macroalbuminuria lesions on glomerulae and arterioles tubular dilatation hyperphosphataemia and or need for dialysis. The present invention also comprises the use of the compounds according to the invention for the treatment and or prevention of sequelae of renal insufficiency for example hypertension pulmonary oedema heart failure uraemia anaemia electrolyte disturbances for example hyperkalaemia hyponatraemia and disturbances in bone and carbohydrate metabolism.

In addition the compounds according to the invention are suitable for the treatment and or prevention of disorders of the urogenital system such as for example benign prostate syndrome BPS benign prostate hyperplasia BPH benign prostate enlargement BPE bladder outlet obstruction BOO lower urinary tract syndromes LUTS neurogenic overactive bladder OAB incontinence such as for example mixed urinary incontinence urge urinary incontinence stress urinary incontinence or overflow urinary incontinence MUI UUI SUI OUI pelvic pain and also erectile dysfunction and female sexual dysfunction.

The compounds according to the invention are also suitable for the treatment and or prevention of asthmatic disorders chronic obstructive pulmonary diseases COPD acute respiratory distress syndrome ARDS and acute lung injury ALI alpha 1 antitrypsin deficiency AATD pulmonary fibrosis pulmonary emphysema for example cigarette smoke induced pulmonary emphysema and cystic fibrosis CF and also pulmonary arterial hypertension PAH and other forms of pulmonary hypertension PH including left sided heart failure HIV sickle cell anaemia thromboembolisms sarcoidosis COPD or pulmonary fibrosis associated pulmonary hypertension.

The compounds described in the present invention are also active compounds for control of central nervous system disorders characterized by disturbances of the NO cGMP system. They are suitable in particular for improving perception concentration learning or memory after cognitive impairments like those occurring in particular in association with situations diseases syndromes such as mild cognitive impairment age associated learning and memory impairments age associated memory losses vascular dementia craniocerebral trauma stroke dementia occurring after strokes post stroke dementia post traumatic craniocerebral trauma general concentration impairments concentration impairments in children with learning and memory problems Alzheimer s disease Lewy body dementia dementia with degeneration of the frontal lobes including Pick s syndrome Parkinson s disease progressive nuclear palsy dementia with corticobasal degeneration amyolateral sclerosis ALS Huntington s disease demyelinization multiple sclerosis thalamic degeneration Creutzfeld Jacob dementia HIV dementia schizophrenia with dementia or Korsakoff s psychosis. They are also suitable for treatment and or prevention of central nervous system disorders such as states of anxiety tension and depression CNS related sexual dysfunctions and sleep disturbances and for controlling pathological disturbances of the intake of food stimulants and addictive substances.

The compounds according to the invention are furthermore also suitable for controlling cerebral blood flow and thus represent effective agents for controlling migraines. They are also suitable for the prophylaxis and control of sequelae of cerebral infarction cerebral apoplexy such as stroke cerebral ischaemia and craniocerebral trauma. The compounds according to the invention can likewise be employed for controlling states of pain.

In addition the compounds according to the invention have anti inflammatory action and can therefore be used as anti inflammatory agents for treatment and or prevention of sepsis SIRS multiple organ failure MODS MOF inflammatory disorders of the kidney chronic intestinal inflammations IBD Crohn s disease ulcerative colitis pancreatitis peritonitis rheumatoid disorders inflammatory skin disorders and inflammatory eye disorders.

Furthermore the compounds according to the invention are suitable for treatment and or prevention of fibrotic disorders of the internal organs for example the lung the heart the kidney the bone marrow and in particular the liver and also dermatological fibroses and fibrotic eye disorders. In the context of the present invention the term fibrotic disorders includes in particular disorders such as hepatic fibrosis cirrhosis of the liver pulmonary fibrosis endomyocardial fibrosis nephropathy glomerulonephritis interstitial renal fibrosis fibrotic damage resulting from diabetes bone marrow fibrosis and similar fibrotic disorders scleroderma morphea keloids hypertrophic scarring naevi diabetic retinopathy proliferative vitroretinopathy and disorders of the connective tissue for example sarkoidosis . The compounds according to the invention can also be used for promoting wound healing for controlling postoperative scarring for example as a result of glaucoma operations and cosmetically for ageing or keratinized skin.

By virtue of their property profile the compounds according to the invention are particularly suitable for the treatment and or prevention of cardiovascular disorders such as heart failure angina pectoris hypertension and pulmonary hypertension and also of thromboembolic disorders ischaemias vascular disorders impaired microcirculation renal insufficiency fibrotic disorders and arteriosclerosis.

The present invention further provides for the use of the inventive compounds for treatment and or prevention of disorders especially the aforementioned disorders.

The present invention further provides for the use of the compounds according to the invention for producing a medicament for the treatment and or prevention of disorders in particular the disorders mentioned above.

The present invention furthermore provides for the use of the compounds according to the invention in a method for treatment and or prevention of disorders in particular the disorders mentioned above.

The present invention further provides a method for treatment and or prevention of disorders in particular the disorders mentioned above using an effective amount of at least one of the compounds according to the invention.

The compounds according to the invention can be used alone or if required in combination with other active compounds. The present invention therefore further provides medicaments comprising at least one of the inventive compounds and one or more further active ingredients especially for treatment and or prevention of the aforementioned disorders. Preferred examples of active compounds suitable for combinations include 

Antithrombotic agents are preferably understood to mean compounds from the group of the platelet aggregation inhibitors the anticoagulants or the profibrinolytic substances.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a platelet aggregation inhibitor by way of example and with preference aspirin clopidogrel ticlopidin or dipyridamole.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a thrombin inhibitor by way of example and with preference ximelagatran melagatran dabigatran bivalirudin or clexane.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a GPIIb IIIa antagonist such as by way of example and with preference tirofiban or abciximab.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a factor Xa inhibitor by way of example and with preference rivaroxaban apixaban fidexaban razaxaban fondaparinux idraparinux DU 176b PMD 3112 YM 150 KFA 1982 EMD 503982 MCM 17 MLN 1021 DX 9065a DPC 906 JTV 803 SSR 126512 or SSR 128428.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with heparin or with a low molecular weight LMW heparin derivative.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a vitamin K antagonist by way of example and with preference coumarin.

Hypotensive agents are preferably understood to mean compounds from the group of the calcium antagonists angiotensin AII antagonists ACE inhibitors endothelin antagonists renin inhibitors alpha receptor blockers beta receptor blockers mineralocorticoid receptor antagonists and the diuretics.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a calcium antagonist by way of example and with preference nifedipine amlodipine verapamil or diltiazem.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with an alpha 1 receptor blocker by way of example and with preference prazosin.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a beta receptor blocker by way of example and with preference propranolol atenolol timolol pindolol alprenolol oxprenolol penbutolol bupranolol metipranolol nadolol mepindolol carazalol sotalol metoprolol betaxolol celiprolol bisoprolol carteolol esmolol labetalol carvedilol adaprolol landiolol nebivolol epanolol or bucindolol.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with an angiotensin AII antagonist by way of example and with preference losartan candesartan valsartan telmisartan or embusartan.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with an ACE inhibitor by way of example and with preference enalapril captopril lisinopril ramipril delapril fosinopril quinopril perindopril or trandopril.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with an endothelin antagonist by way of example and with preference bosentan darusentan ambrisentan or sitaxsentan.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a renin inhibitor by way of example and with preference aliskiren SPP 600 or SPP 800.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a mineralocorticoid receptor antagonist by way of example and with preference spironolactone or eplerenone.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a diuretic by way of example and with preference furosemide bumetanide torsemide bendroflumethiazide chlorthiazide hydrochlorthiazide hydroflumethiazide methyclothiazide polythiazide trichlormethiazide chlorthalidone indapamide metolazone quinethazone acetazolamide dichlorphenamide methazolamide glycerol isosorbide mannitol amiloride or triamterene.

Lipid metabolism modifiers are preferably understood to mean compounds from the group of the CETP inhibitors thyroid receptor agonists cholesterol synthesis inhibitors such as HMG CoA reductase inhibitors or squalene synthesis inhibitors the ACAT inhibitors MTP inhibitors PPAR alpha PPAR gamma and or PPAR delta agonists cholesterol absorption inhibitors polymeric bile acid adsorbents bile acid reabsorption inhibitors lipase inhibitors and the lipoprotein a antagonists.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a CETP inhibitor by way of example and with preference torcetrapib CP 529 414 HT 705 or CETP vaccine Avant .

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a thyroid receptor agonist by way of example and with preference D thyroxin 3 5 3 triiodothyronin T3 CGS 23425 or axitirome CGS 26214 .

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with an HMG CoA reductase inhibitor from the class of statins by way of example and with preference lovastatin simvastatin pravastatin fluvastatin atorvastatin rosuvastatin or pitavastatin.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a squalene synthesis inhibitor by way of example and with preference BMS 188494 or TAK 475.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with an ACAT inhibitor by way of example and with preference avasimibe melinamide pactimibe eflucimibe or SMP 797.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with an MTP inhibitor by way of example and with preference implitapide BMS 201038 R 103757 or JTT 130.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a PPAR gamma agonist by way of example and with preference pioglitazone or rosiglitazone.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a PPAR delta agonist by way of example and with preference GW 501516 or BAY 68 5042.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a cholesterol absorption inhibitor by way of example and with preference ezetimibe tiqueside or pamaqueside.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a lipase inhibitor by way of example and with preference orlistat.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a polymeric bile acid adsorbent by way of example and with preference cholestyramine colestipol colesolvam CholestaGel or colestimide.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a bile acid reabsorption inhibitor by way of example and with preference ASBT IBAT inhibitors for example AZD 7806 S 8921 AK 105 BARI 1741 SC 435 or SC 635.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a lipoprotein a antagonist by way of example and with preference gemcabene calcium CI 1027 or nicotinic acid.

The present invention further provides medicaments which comprise at least one compound according to the invention typically together with one or more inert nontoxic pharmaceutically suitable excipients and the use thereof for the aforementioned purposes.

The compounds according to the invention can act systemically and or locally. For this purpose they can be administered in a suitable manner for example by the oral parenteral pulmonal nasal sublingual lingual buccal rectal dermal transdermal conjunctival or otic route or as an implant or stent.

The compounds according to the invention can be administered in suitable administration forms for these administration routes.

Suitable administration forms for oral administration are those which work according to the prior art and release the compounds according to the invention rapidly and or in a modified manner and which contain the compounds according to the invention in crystalline and or amorphized and or dissolved form for example tablets uncoated or coated tablets for example with gastric juice resistant or retarded dissolution or insoluble coatings which control the release of the compound according to the invention tablets or films oblates which disintegrate rapidly in the oral cavity films lyophilizates capsules for example hard or soft gelatin capsules sugar coated tablets granules pellets powders emulsions suspensions aerosols or solutions.

Parenteral administration can be accomplished with avoidance of an absorption step for example by an intravenous intraarterial intracardiac intraspinal or intralumbar route or with inclusion of an absorption for example by an intramuscular subcutaneous intracutaneous percutaneous or intraperitoneal route . Suitable administration forms for parenteral administration include injection and infusion formulations in the form of solutions suspensions emulsions lyophilizates or sterile powders.

For the other administration routes suitable examples are inhalable medicament forms including powder inhalers nebulizers nasal drops solutions or sprays tablets films oblates or capsules for lingual sublingual or buccal administration suppositories ear or eye preparations vaginal capsules aqueous suspensions lotions shaking mixtures lipophilic suspensions ointments creams transdermal therapeutic systems e.g. patches milk pastes foams sprinkling powders implants or stents.

The compounds according to the invention can be converted to the administration forms mentioned. This can be accomplished in a manner known per se by mixing with inert non toxic pharmaceutically suitable excipients. These excipients include carriers for example microcrystalline cellulose lactose mannitol solvents e.g. liquid polyethylene glycols emulsifiers and dispersing or wetting agents for example sodium dodecylsulphate polyoxysorbitan oleate binders for example polyvinylpyrrolidone synthetic and natural polymers for example albumin stabilizers e.g. antioxidants for example ascorbic acid colorants e.g. inorganic pigments for example iron oxides and flavour and or odour correctants.

In general it has been found to be advantageous in the case of parenteral administration to administer amounts of from about 0.001 to 1 mg kg preferably about 0.01 to 0.5 mg kg of body weight to achieve effective results. In the case of oral administration the dosage is about 0.01 to 100 mg kg preferably about 0.01 to 20 mg kg and most preferably 0.1 to 10 mg kg of body weight.

It may nevertheless be necessary where appropriate to deviate from the stated amounts specifically as a function of the body weight route of administration individual response to the active compound nature of the preparation and time or interval over which administration takes place. Thus in some cases less than the abovementioned minimum amount may be sufficient while in other cases the upper limit mentioned must be exceeded. In the case of administration of greater amounts it may be advisable to divide them into several individual doses over the day.

The working examples which follow illustrate the invention. The invention is not restricted to the examples.

Unless stated otherwise the percentages in the tests and examples which follow are percentages by weight parts are parts by weight. Solvent ratios dilution ratios and concentration data for the liquid liquid solutions are in each case based on volume.

Instrument Micromass GCT GC 6890 column Restek RTX 35 15 m 200 m 0.33 m constant helium flow rate 0.88 ml min oven 70 C. inlet 250 C. gradient 70 C. 30 C. min 310 C. maintained for 3 min 

Instrument Waters Acquity SQD UPLC System column Waters Acquity UPLC HSS T3 1.8 50 mm 1 mm mobile phase A 1 l of water 0.25 ml of 99 formic acid eluent B 1 l of acetonitrile 0.25 ml of 99 formic acid gradient 0.0 min 90 A 1.2 min 5 A 2.0 min 5 A flow rate 0.40 ml min oven 50 C. UV detection 210 400 nm

Instrument Micromass Quattro Premier with Waters UPLC Acquity column Thermo Hypersil GOLD 1.9 50 mm 1 mm mobile phase A 1 l of water 0.5 ml of 50 strength formic acid mobile phase B 1 l of acetonitrile 0.5 ml of 50 formic acid gradient 0.0 min 90 A 0.1 min 90 A 1.5 min 10 A 2.2 min 10 A flow rate 0.33 ml min oven 50 C. UV detection 210 nm

MS instrument type Waters ZQ HPLC instrument type Agilent 1100 Series UV DAD column Thermo Hypersil GOLD 3 20 mm 4 mm mobile phase A 1 l of water 0.5 ml of 50 strength formic acid mobile phase B 1 l of acetonitrile 0.5 ml of 50 formic acid gradient 0.0 min 100 A 3.0 min 10 A 4.0 min 10 A 4.1 min 100 A flow rate 2.5 ml min oven 55 C. flow rate 2 ml min UV detection 210 nm

MS instrument type Waters Micromass Quattro Micro HPLC instrument type Agilent 1100 series column Thermo Hypersil GOLD 3 20 mm 4 mm mobile phase A 1 l of water 0.5 ml of 50 strength formic acid mobile phase B 1 l of acetonitrile 0.5 ml of 50 formic acid gradient 0.0 min 100 A 3.0 min 10 A 4.0 min 10 A 4.01 min 100 A flow rate 2.5 ml min 5.00 min 100 A oven 50 C. flow rate 2 ml min UV detection 210 nm.

Under argon 199.5 ml 1.42 mol of diisopropylamine were initially charged in 1300 ml of dry THF and cooled to 50 C. 569.1 ml 1.42 mol of n butyllithium solution 2.5 M in hexane were slowly added dropwise. The resulting mixture was warmed to 0 C. and then cooled to 70 C. A solution of 161.9 g 1.14 mol of tert butyl cyclopropanecarboxylate in 380 ml THF was added to the reaction solution with the temperature being kept below 60 C. After 4 h of stirring at 78 C. a solution of 262 g 0.95 mol of 2 bromo 4 bromomethyl 1 fluorobenzene in 480 ml of THF was added the temperature again being kept below 60 C. The reaction mixture was then slowly warmed to RT overnight after which 1.5 liters of saturated aqueous ammonium chloride solution and 3.0 liters of ethyl acetate were carefully added. After phase separation the aqueous phase was extracted with ethyl acetate. The combined organic phases were washed with saturated sodium chloride solution dried over magnesium sulphate and concentrated under reduced pressure. The crude product was purified by chromatography on 3 kg of silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane dichloromethane 9 1 then 5 1 . 189.9 g 50.4 of theory of the title compound were thus obtained.

Under argon and under dry conditions 174.0 g 528.5 mmol of tert butyl 1 3 bromo 4 fluorobenzyl cyclopropanecarboxylate 69.2 ml 634.2 mmol of benzylamine 4.84 g 5.29 mmol of tris dibenzylideneacetone dipalladium 60.95 g 634.2 mmol of sodium tert butoxide and 3.29 g 5.29 mmol of 2 2 bis diphenylphosphino 1 1 binaphthyl were suspended in 1218 ml of toluene. The reaction mixture was then stirred at 110 C. for 2.0 h. After cooling 2.1 liters of ethyl acetate and 1.7 liters of semisaturated aqueous ammonium chloride solution were added to the reaction mixture. After phase separation the organic phase was washed with a saturated ammonium chloride solution and saturated sodium chloride solution dried over magnesium sulphate and concentrated under reduced pressure. The crude product was purified by chromatography on 3.7 kg of silica gel mobile phase petroleum ether ethyl acetate 20 1 . 145.0 g 68.7 of theory of the title compound were thus obtained.

145.0 g 407.9 mmol of tert butyl 1 3 benzylamino 4 fluorobenzyl cyclopropanecarboxylate were dissolved in 1450 ml of ethanol and 9.67 g of palladium hydroxide 20 on carbon were added. The suspension was stirred at RT under a hydrogen atmosphere at standard pressure for 18 h. The reaction mixture was then filtered off with suction through kieselguhr and the filtrate was concentrated. After drying under high vacuum 500 ml of pentane were added to the residue resulting in the precipitation of the product. The suspension was stirred in an ice bath for 1 h. The solid was then filtered off with suction washed twice with pentane and dried under high vacuum. 88.5 g 73.6 of theory of the title compound were thus obtained.

At RT and with slight cooling 99.23 g 394 mmol of tert butyl diethylphosphonoacetate were added dropwise to a suspension of 15.74 g 394 mmol of sodium hydride 60 in mineral oil in 540 ml of THF. After the addition had ended the mixture was stirred at RT for 30 min and after cooling to 0 C. a solution of 60.5 g 358 mmol of 4 fluoro 3 nitrobenzaldehyde in 324 ml of THF was added. The reaction mixture was stirred at RT overnight and then added to a 10 strength aqueous sodium chloride solution. The mixture was extracted twice with ethyl acetate. The combined organic phases were washed with sat. sodium chloride solution dried over magnesium sulphate and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by chromatography twice on silica gel mobile phase petroleum ether ethyl acetate 9 1 . This gave 82.0 g 84.9 of theory of the target product.

A solution of 81.0 g 303 mmol of tert butyl 2E 3 4 fluoro 3 nitrophenyl acrylate in a mixture of 810 ml of THF and 810 ml of ethanol was inertized with argon and 8.1 g of 10 palladium on carbon were added. The suspension was stirred at RT under a hydrogen atmosphere at standard pressure for 9 h. The reaction mixture was then filtered off with suction through kieselguhr and the filtrate was concentrated. The crude product was purified by chromatography on silica gel mobile phase petroleum ether ethyl acetate 4 1 . This gave 66.0 g 91 of theory of the title compound.

At 0 C. and with cooling 156.32 g 620 mmol of tert butyl diethylphosphonoacetate were added dropwise to a suspension of 23.71 g 593 mmol of sodium hydride 60 in mineral oil in 1.0 liters of THF. After the addition had ended the mixture was stirred at 0 C. for 30 min and a solution of 100.0 g 539 mmol of 4 chloro 3 nitrobenzaldehyde in 200 ml of THF was then added. The reaction mixture was heated at RT overnight and water and ethyl acetate were then added. The organic phase was removed dried with magnesium sulphate and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was recrystallized from isopropanol. Drying under high vacuum gave 144.0 g 94.2 of theory of the target product.

Under argon 5.4 g of 10 palladium on carbon were added to a solution of 72.0 g 254 mmol of tert butyl 2E 3 4 chloro 3 nitrophenyl acrylate in 1.0 liters of ethyl acetate. The suspension was stirred at RT under a hydrogen atmosphere at standard pressure for 7 h. The reaction mixture was then filtered off with suction through kieselguhr and the filtrate was concentrated. The crude product was purified by chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 9 1 . This gave 38 g 58 of theory of the title compound.

3.17 g of sodium hydride 60 suspension in mineral oil 79.36 mmol were suspended in 90 ml of a THF DMF mixture 2 1 . The mixture was cooled to 0 C. and a solution of 19.76 g 82.96 mmol of triethyl 2 phosphonopropionate in 60 ml of THF DMF 2 1 was added dropwise. After 30 min a solution of 12.2 g 72.14 mmol of 4 fluoro 3 nitrobenzaldehyde in 60 ml of THF DMF 2 1 was added dropwise at 0 C. After the end of the addition the reaction mixture was slowly warmed to RT and stirred at this temperature for 2 h. The reaction mixture was then added to water. The mixture was extracted three times with ethyl acetate and the combined organic phases were concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 20 1 . This gave 15.2 g 83.2 of theory of the target product as an E Z isomer mixture E Z 91 9 .

Palladium on carbon 10 was added to 15.2 g 60.02 mmol of ethyl E Z 3 4 fluoro 3 nitrophenyl 2 methylprop 2 enoate E Z 91 9 in a mixture of 100 ml of ethanol and 100 ml of THF and the mixture was stirred vigorously under an atmosphere of hydrogen at standard pressure overnight. The reaction mixture was then filtered through Celite the residue was washed with ethanol dichloromethane and the combined filtrates were concentrated under reduced pressure. The product was dried under high vacuum. This gave 13.34 g of the target product 98.7 of theory .

The racemate obtained above was separated into the enantiomers by preparative HPLC on a chiral phase column Daicel Chiralpak AD H 5 m 250 mm 20 mm injection volume 0.15 ml temperature 30 C. mobile phase 90 isohexane 10 ethanol flow rate 15 ml min detection 220 nm . 7.25 g of racemate gave 3.43 g of enantiomer 1 Example 10A and 3.35 g of enantiomer 2 Example 11A 

4.74 g of sodium hydride 60 suspension in mineral oil 118.56 mmol were suspended in 93 ml of a THF DMF mixture 1 1 . The mixture was cooled to 0 C. and 26.6 ml 123.95 mmol of triethyl 2 phosphonopropionate were added dropwise. After 30 min 20.0 g 107.78 mmol of 4 chloro 3 nitrobenzaldehyde were added at 0 C. After the end of the addition the reaction mixture was slowly warmed to RT and stirred at this temperature for another 3 h. The reaction mixture was then added to water. The mixture was extracted three times with ethyl acetate and the combined organic phases were concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 70 1 50 1 . This gave 26.7 g 91.9 of theory of the target product as an E Z isomer mixture E Z 91 9 .

10.0 g 37.08 mmol of ethyl E Z 3 4 chloro 3 nitrophenyl 2 methylprop 2 enoate E Z 91 9 were dissolved in 25 ml of ethyl acetate and 25 ml of acetic acid and palladium on carbon 10 was added. The reaction mixture was stirred vigorously for a total of 6 h under an atmosphere of hydrogen at standard pressure with another 25 ml of acetic acid and further portions of 10 palladium on carbon being added after 2 h. The mixture was then filtered through Celite and the residue was washed with ethanol dichloromethane. The combined filtrates were washed with saturated sodium bicarbonate solution dried over sodium sulphate and concentrated under reduced pressure. The crude product was purified by chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 30 1 10 1 . This gave 4.01 g of the target product 44.7 of theory .

The racemate obtained above was separated into the enantiomers by preparative HPLC on a chiral phase column Daicel Chiralpak OJ H 5 m 250 mm 20 mm injection volume 0.15 ml temperature 35 C. mobile phase 50 isohexane 50 isopropanol flow rate 15 ml min detection 220 nm . 10.3 g of racemate gave 4.0 g of enantiomer 1 Example 14A and 3.7 g of enantiomer 2 Example 15A 

2.87 g of sodium hydride 60 suspension in mineral oil 71.65 mmol were suspended in 80 ml of THF. The mixture was cooled to 0 C. and 17.6 ml 74.9 mmol of tert butyl diethoxyphosphoryl acetate were added dropwise. After 30 min 13.0 g 65.1 mmol of 4 chloro 3 nitroacetophenone were added at 0 C. After the end of the addition the reaction mixture was slowly warmed to RT and stirred at RT for another 1.5 h and the mixture was then added to water. The mixture was extracted three times with ethyl acetate and the combined organic phases were concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 20 1 10 1 . This gave 17.03 g 87.8 of theory of the target product as an E Z isomer mixture E Z about 1 1 .

11.5 g 38.62 mmol of tert butyl 2E Z 3 4 chloro 3 nitrophenyl but 2 enoate E Z about 1 1 were dissolved in 60 ml of ethyl acetate and 60 ml of acetic acid and palladium on carbon 10 was added. The reaction mixture was stirred vigorously at standard pressure under an atmosphere of hydrogen for 6 h. The mixture was filtered through Celite and the residue was washed with ethyl acetate. The combined filtrates were washed with saturated sodium bicarbonate solution dried over sodium sulphate and concentrated under reduced pressure. The crude product was purified by chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 30 1 . This gave 3.90 g 37.4 of theory of the target product.

The racemate obtained above was separated into the enantiomers by preparative HPLC on a chiral phase column Daicel Chiralpak AD H 5 m 250 mm 20 mm injection volume 0.15 ml temperature 30 C. mobile phase 90 isohexane 10 ethanol flow rate 15 ml min detection 220 nm . 5.0 g of racemate gave 2.1 g of enantiomer 1 Example 18A and 1.8 g of enantiomer 2 Example 19A 

199.0 g 0.845 mol of 3 bromo 4 chlorobenzoic acid were dissolved in 2.5 liters of THF the solution was cooled to 10 C. and 1.69 liters 1.69 mol of a 1 M solution of borane in THF were added at this temperature. The reaction mixture was warmed to RT overnight and saturated aqueous ammonium chloride solution was then added. After addition of water the mixture was extracted twice with ethyl acetate and the combined organic phases were dried over magnesium sulphate and concentrated under reduced pressure. This gave as a crude product 206 g of 3 bromo 4 chlorophenyl methanol which were used without further purification for the next step.

260 g about 1.05 mol of crude 3 bromo 4 chlorophenyl methanol were dissolved in 2.86 liters of dichloromethane the solution was cooled to 5 C. and 127.1 g 44.6 ml 460 mmol of phosphorus tribromide were added slowly. After the end of the addition the mixture was stirred at 5 C. for another 1 h and then diluted with diluted with dichloromethane and water. The organic phase was removed dried over magnesium sulphate and concentrated under reduced pressure. This gave as a crude product 280.5 g about 84 of theory of 2 bromo 4 bromomethyl 1 chlorobenzene.

Under argon 140.2 ml 1.0 mol of diisopropylamine were dissolved in 1200 ml of dry THF and cooled to 30 C. 400 ml 1.0 mol of n butyllithium solution 2.5 M in hexane were added dropwise. The resulting mixture was warmed to 0 C. and then cooled to 70 C. A solution of 94.8 g 0.667 mol of tert butyl cyclopropanecarboxylate in 750 ml THF was added to the reaction solution with the temperature being kept below 60 C. After 4 h of stirring at 60 C. a solution of 208.6 g 0.733 mol of 2 bromo 4 bromomethyl 1 chlorobenzene in 550 ml of THF was added the temperature again being kept below 60 C. The reaction mixture was slowly warmed to RT overnight and saturated aqueous ammonium chloride solution was then added carefully. After phase separation the aqueous phase was extracted with ethyl acetate. The combined organic phases were dried over magnesium sulphate and concentrated under reduced pressure. The crude product was purified by chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane dichloromethane 4 1 . This gave 95.5 g 41.4 of theory of the title compound.

Under argon 95.0 g 274.8 mmol of tert butyl 1 3 bromo 4 chlorobenzyl cyclopropanecarboxylate 36.0 ml 330.0 mmol of benzylamine 12.58 g 13.7 mmol of tris dibenzylideneacetone dipalladium 31.69 g 329.8 mmol of sodium tert butoxide and 6.85 g 5.29 mmol of 2 2 bis diphenylphosphino 1 1 binaphthyl were added successively to 633 ml of dry toluene. The reaction mixture was stirred at 110 C. for 3.0 h and then at RT overnight. The reaction mixture was then filtered off with suction through kieselguhr and the residue was washed thoroughly with toluene and ethyl acetate. The combined filtrates were concentrated under reduced pressure. The crude product was purified by chromatography on silica gel mobile phase petroleum ether ethyl acetate 10 1 . This gave 50.0 g of the title compound 48.9 of theory .

50.0 g 134.4 mmol of tert butyl 1 3 benzylamino 4 chlorobenzyl cyclopropanecarboxylate were dissolved in 1.5 liters of ethyl acetate and 1.43 g 1.34 mmol of palladium 10 on carbon were added. The reaction mixture was stirred at RT under a hydrogen atmosphere at standard pressure overnight. The reaction mixture was then filtered off with suction through kieselguhr and the filtrate was concentrated. The crude product was purified by chromatography on silica gel mobile phase petroleum ether ethyl acetate 10 1 . The resulting product was stirred in a methanol water mixture 70 30 and the solid was isolated. 24.3 g 64.1 of theory of the target compound were obtained.

A little at a time 15.0 g 72 mmol of 4 4 4 trifluorovaline hydrochloride were introduced into 160 ml of saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution. At RT a solution of 19.8 g 79 mmol of N benzyloxycarbonyloxy succinimide in 150 ml of dioxane was added to the mixture. The resulting reaction mixture was stirred vigorously for 2 h. Most of the dioxane was then removed under reduced pressure. The mixture was acidified to a pH of about 2 using 1 N hydrochloric acid and then extracted three times with dichloromethane and the combined organic phases were dried over magnesium sulphate and concentrated under reduced pressure. The crude product was dried under high vacuum and used without further purification for subsequent reactions. This gave 26.0 g of the target product purity about 80 about 95 of theory .

6.63 g 57.8 mmol of succinimide were initially charged in 100 ml of THF and 10.1 ml 72.6 mmol of triethylamine were added at RT. After cooling to 0 C. a solution of 6.98 g 57.8 mmol of allyl chloroformate in 10 ml of THF was added dropwise to the mixture. The mixture was stirred at 0 C. for 1 h and 10.1 ml 72.6 mmol of triethylamine and 10.0 g 48.2 mmol of 4 4 4 trifluorovaline hydrochloride were then added. After the addition had ended the reaction mixture was with vigorous stirring slowly warmed to RT and water was added after 2 h. The aqueous phase was acidified with 1 N hydrochloric acid to a pH of about 2 and then extracted three times with ethyl acetate The combined organic phases were dried over magnesium sulphate and concentrated under reduced pressure. The crude product was purified by chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 4 1 1 acetic acid . This gave 9.15 g of the target product 74.4 of theory .

At room temperature 133 ml 1.82 mol of thionyl chloride were added slowly to 287 g 1.65 mol of 3R 4 4 4 trifluoro 3 methylbutanoic acid A. Gerlach and U. Schulz 24 4 37 38 2004 CAS Acc. Nr. 142 179196 in 580 ml of ethanol. The reaction mixture was then heated to 80 C. and stirred at this temperature for 2 h. The mixture was then cooled to room temperature 250 ml of water were added slowly and the mixture was extracted three times with 150 ml of tert butyl methyl ether each time. The combined organic phases were dried over sodium sulphate. After filtration the solvent was removed under reduced pressure at 30 C. and a pressure of 300 mbar. The crude product was then distilled at 100 mbar and a head temperature of 65 C. This gave 225.8 g 113 mol 74 of theory of the title compound as a colourless liquid.

91.2 ml 228 mmol of a 2.5 M solution of n butyllithium solution in hexane were added to a solution cooled to 40 C. of 32.0 ml 228 mmol of diisopropylamine in 160 ml of abs. THF. The resulting LDA solution was stirred at 40 C. for 30 min and then cooled to 78 C. and 52.4 ml 413 mmol of chlorotrimethylsilane were subsequently added dropwise. After 5 min 40.0 g 217.2 mmol of ethyl 3R 4 4 4 trifluoro 3 methylbutanoate dissolved in 40 ml of abs. THF were added dropwise over a period of 1 h. At 78 C. in three portions a total of 40.59 g 228 mmol of N bromosuccinimide were added to the resulting suspension and the mixture was then slowly warmed to RT overnight. Water was added carefully and the reaction mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate. The organic phase was washed successively with 1 N hydrochloric acid sat. sodium bicarbonate solution and sat. sodium chloride solution dried over sodium sulphate and concentrated under reduced pressure without heating. 130 ml of diethyl ether were added to the resulting suspension and the mixture was kept at 4 C. overnight. The undissolved solid formed was then filtered off and discarded. The filtrate was concentrated under reduced pressure without heating and the residue was briefly dried under high vacuum. This gave 48.5 g of ethyl 3S 2 bromo 4 4 4 trifluoro 3 methylbutanoate diastereomer mixture as a crude product.

48.5 g of crude ethyl 3S 2 bromo 4 4 4 trifluoro 3 methylbutanoate diastereomer mixture were dissolved in 130 ml of DMF and 17.98 g 276.55 mmol of sodium azide were added at RT. The reaction mixture was stirred vigorously at RT overnight. The mixture was then diluted with 600 ml of ethyl acetate and washed with a 1 1 mixture adjusted to pH 8 of sat. sodium chloride solution and water. After phase separation the aqueous phase was re extracted with 200 ml of ethyl acetate. The combined organic phases were washed successively twice with in each case 100 ml and twice with in each case 50 ml of a 1 1 mixture of sat. sodium chloride solution and water dried over sodium sulphate and concentrated under reduced pressure without heating. The residue was briefly dried under high vacuum careful when venting . This gave 32.8 g of ethyl 3R 2 azido 4 4 4 trifluoro 3 methylbutanoate diastereomer mixture as a crude product which was directly reacted further.

32.8 g of crude ethyl 3R 2 azido 4 4 4 trifluoro 3 methylbutanoate diastereomer mixture were dissolved in 110 ml of ethanol and after inertizing with argon 6.98 g of palladium on carbon 5 were added. The mixture was stirred overnight at standard pressure under an atmosphere of hydrogen with the reaction vessel repeatedly being vented and filled with fresh hydrogen. The reaction mixture was then filtered off through Celite the filter residue was washed with 50 ml of ethanol and the filtrate was concentrated under reduced pressure up to about 20 mmHg . The slightly yellowish liquid that remained was briefly freed from residual solvent under high vacuum. This gave 23.5 g of the target compound as an about 70 pure crude product which was not purified any further yield over three steps about 38 of theory .

23.5 g of ethyl 3R 4 4 4 trifluorovalinate diastereomer mixture crude product about 70 and 18.1 ml 130 mmol of triethylamine were dissolved in 235 ml of THF and 32.3 g 130 mmol of N benzyloxycarbonyloxy succinimide were added. The reaction mixture was stirred at RT overnight and then diluted with ethyl acetate. The mixture was washed successively with sat. sodium bicarbonate solution 1 N hydrochloric acid and sat. sodium chloride solution. The organic phase was dried over magnesium sulphate and concentrated under reduced pressure. The crude product was purified by chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 6 1 . This gave 22.1 g of the target product about 80 of theory diastereomer ratio about 2 1 .

2.15 g 6.45 mmol of ethyl 3R N benzyloxy carbonyl 4 4 4 trifluorovalinate diastereomer mixture were dissolved in a mixture of in each case 8 ml of THF methanol and water and 3.87 g 96.8 mmol of sodium hydroxide were added at 0 C. Ice cooling was removed and the reaction mixture was stirred at RT for 1 h. The mixture was then added to water acidified with semiconcentrated hydrochloric acid and extracted with ethyl acetate. The organic phase was washed with sat. sodium chloride solution dried over sodium sulphate and concentrated under reduced pressure. This gave 1.95 g of the target product which was not purified any further 99 of theory diastereomer ratio about 2.8 1 .

9.7 ml 69.3 mmol of triethylamine were added dropwise to a solution of 6.38 g 55.4 mmol of succinimide in 90 ml of abs. THF. The resulting suspension was cooled to 0 C. and a solution of 6.68 g 55.4 mmol of allyl chloroformate in 10 ml of abs. THF was added dropwise. The mixture was stirred at 0 C. for 1 h and three portions of in total 9.2 g about 46 mmol of ethyl 3R 4 4 4 trifluorovalinate diastereomer mixture crude product were added. The reaction mixture was warmed to RT overnight then diluted with ethyl acetate washed with sat. sodium bicarbonate solution and sat. sodium chloride solution dried over sodium sulphate and concentrated under reduced pressure. The crude product was purified by chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 10 1 4 1 . This gave 6.50 g of the target product about 50 of theory diastereomer ratio about 2 1 .

6.50 g 22.9 mmol of ethyl 3R N allyloxy carbonyl 4 4 4 trifluorovalinate diastereomer mixture were dissolved in a mixture of in each case 28 ml of THF ethanol and water and 13.77 g 344 mmol of sodium hydroxide were added at 0 C. Ice cooling was removed and the reaction mixture was stirred at RT overnight. The mixture was then added to water acidified with semiconcentrated hydrochloric acid and extracted with ethyl acetate. The organic phase was washed with sat. sodium chloride solution dried over sodium sulphate and concentrated under reduced pressure. This gave 4.39 g of the target product which was not purified any further 75 of theory diastereomer ratio about 2.5 1 .

4.80 g 15.7 mmol of N benzyloxy carbonyl 4 4 4 trifluorovaline racemic diastereomer mixture and 5.01 g 18.9 mmol of tert butyl 1 3 amino 4 fluorobenzyl cyclopropanecarboxylate were dissolved in a mixture of 40 ml of DMF and 10 ml of pyridine and 6.58 g 17.3 mmol of HATU were added at RT. The reaction mixture was stirred at RT overnight and then added to water. The mixture was extracted three times with ethyl acetate and the combined organic phases were then washed successively with sat. sodium bicarbonate solution 1 N hydrochloric acid and sat. sodium chloride solution dried over magnesium sulphate and concentrated under reduced pressure. The crude product was purified by chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 20 1 10 1 . This gave 5.34 g of the target product 61.5 of theory diastereomer ratio about 2.5 1 .

10.30 g 33.7 mmol of N benzyloxy carbonyl 4 4 4 trifluorovaline racemic diastereomer mixture and 9.69 g 40.5 mmol of tert butyl 3 3 amino 4 fluorobenzyl propanoate were dissolved in a mixture of 40 ml of DMF and 10 ml of pyridine and 16.68 g 43.9 mmol of HATU were added at RT. The reaction mixture was stirred at RT overnight and then diluted with ethyl acetate. The mixture was washed successively with sat. sodium bicarbonate solution 1 N hydrochloric acid and sat. sodium chloride solution dried over magnesium sulphate and concentrated under reduced pressure. The crude product was pre purified by chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 10 1 . Product containing fractions were concentrated under reduced pressure and the residue was stirred with cyclohexane diethyl ether 5 1. The solid obtained was filtered off with suction and dried under high vacuum. This gave 12.29 g of the target product 69 of theory diastereomer ratio about 2.5 1 .

General Procedure 1 HATU Mediated Amide Coupling of N Protected 4 4 4 Trifluorovaline Derivatives with Anilines

At RT HATU 1.0 to 2.0 eq. is added to a solution of the N protected 4 4 4 trifluorovaline derivative in question about 0.8 to 1.5 eq. 0.15 to 1.5 mol l and an aniline about 0.8 to 1.5 eq. 0.15 to 1.5 mol l in a mixture of DMF and pyridine mixing ratio about 3 1 to 1.5 1 . Alternatively instead of pyridine it is also possible to use N N diisopropylethylamine 2.0 to 5.0 eq. . The resulting mixture is stirred at a temperature of from RT to 60 C. for 4 h to 48 h. If appropriate after 24 h a further portion of aniline component or of trifluorovaline derivative and HATU is added. After the reaction has ended the crude product can after removal of the solvent under reduced pressure be purified by preparative RP HPLC mobile phase acetonitrile water gradient or alternatively following aqueous work up of the reaction mixture by chromatography on silica gel mobile phases cyclohexane diethyl ether petroleum ether ethyl acetate cyclohexane ethyl acetate or dichloromethane methanol mixtures .

0.87 g 2.85 mmol of 3R N benzyloxy carbonyl 4 4 4 trifluorovaline diastereomer mixture and 0.77 g 3.42 mmol of ethyl 2S 3 3 amino 4 fluorophenyl 2 methylpropanoate were dissolved in a mixture of 5 ml of DMF and 2.5 ml of pyridine and 1.41 g 3.71 mmol of HATU were added at RT. The reaction mixture was stirred at RT overnight and then diluted with ethyl acetate. The mixture was washed successively with 1 N hydrochloric acid sat. sodium bicarbonate solution and sat. sodium chloride solution dried over magnesium sulphate and concentrated under reduced pressure. The crude product was purified by chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 6 1 . This gave 1.27 g of the target product 87.2 of theory diastereomer ratio about 4.8 1 .

1.26 g purity 76 about 3.14 mmol of 3R N benzyloxy carbonyl 4 4 4 trifluorovaline diastereomer mixture and 0.91 g 3.76 mmol of ethyl 2S 3 3 amino 4 chlorophenyl 2 methylpropanoate were dissolved in a mixture of 10 ml of DMF and 4 ml of pyridine and 1.55 g 4.08 mmol of HATU were added at RT. The reaction mixture was stirred at RT overnight and then added to water. The mixture was extracted three times with ethyl acetate and the combined organic phases were then washed successively with sat. sodium bicarbonate solution 1 N hydrochloric acid and sat. sodium chloride solution dried over magnesium sulphate and concentrated under reduced pressure. The resulting solid was stirred in a mixture of cyclohexane and diethyl ether about 3 1 filtered off with suction and dried under high vacuum. This gave 0.99 g of the target product 59.9 of theory diastereomer ratio about 7 1 .

398.5 mg 1.56 mmol of 3R N allyloxy carbonyl 4 4 4 trifluorovaline diastereomer mixture and 400 mg 1.42 mmol of tert butyl 1 3 amino 4 chlorobenzyl cyclopropanecarboxylate were dissolved in a mixture of 4.7 ml of DMF and 1.6 ml of pyridine and 647.8 mg 1.70 mmol of HATU were added at RT. The reaction mixture was stirred at RT overnight. A further 400 mg 1.42 mmol of tert butyl 1 3 amino 4 chlorobenzyl cyclopropanecarboxylate and 647.8 mg 1.70 mmol of HATU were added and the reaction mixture was stirred at 50 C. for another 4 h. After dilution with ethyl acetate the mixture was washed successively with sat. sodium bicarbonate solution 1 N hydrochloric acid and sat. sodium chloride solution dried over magnesium sulphate and concentrated under reduced pressure. The crude product was purified by preparative RP HPLC mobile phase acetonitrile water . This gave 453 mg of the target product 55.9 of theory diastereomer ratio 8 1 .

5.31 g 9.61 mmol of tert butyl 1 3 N benzyloxy carbonyl 4 4 4 trifluorovalylamino 4 fluorobenzyl cyclopropanecarboxylate Example 32A racemic diastereomer mixture were dissolved in a mixture of 100 ml of ethanol and 20 ml of THF. The solution was inertized with argon and 511 mg of palladium on carbon 10 were added. The reaction mixture was stirred vigorously at standard pressure under an atmosphere of hydrogen overnight. After filtration through kieselguhr and washing with ethanol THF the filtrate was concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 50 1 4 1 and the diastereomers were separated 

12.29 g 23.3 mmol of tert butyl 3 3 N benzyloxy carbonyl 4 4 4 trifluorovalylamino 4 fluorophenyl propanoate Example 33A racemic diastereomer mixture were dissolved in a mixture of 80 ml of ethanol and 20 ml of THF. The solution was inertized with argon and 745 mg of palladium on carbon 10 were added. The reaction mixture was stirred vigorously at standard pressure under an atmosphere of hydrogen overnight. After filtration through kieselguhr and washing with ethanol THF the filtrate was concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 20 1 4 1 and the diastereomers were separated 

The racemic diastereomer 1 obtained above of tert butyl 3 4 fluoro 3 4 4 4 trifluorovalyl amino phenylpropanoate Example 48A was separated into the enantiomers by preparative HPLC on a chiral phase column Daicel Chiralpak AD H 5 m 250 mm 20 mm injection volume 0.25 ml temperature 45 C. mobile phase 80 isohexane 20 ethanol 0.2 diethylamine flow rate 15 ml min detection 220 nm . 5.70 g of racemate gave 2.59 g of the title compound as enantiomer 2 .

3.19 g 5.87 mmol of tert butyl 3 3 N benzyloxy carbonyl 4 4 4 trifluorovalylamino 4 chlorophenyl propanoate Example 34A racemic diastereomer mixture were dissolved in 50 ml of ethyl acetate. The solution was inertized with argon and 125 mg of palladium on carbon 5 were added. The reaction mixture was stirred vigorously at standard pressure under an atmosphere of hydrogen for 3 h. After filtration through kieselguhr the filtrate was concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 50 1 3 1 and the diastereomers were separated 

1.17 g 2.16 mmol of tert butyl 3 3 3R N benzyloxy carbonyl 4 4 4 trifluorovalylamino 4 chlorophenyl propanoate Example 35A diastereomer mixture were dissolved in 20 ml of ethyl acetate. The solution was inertized with argon and 229 mg of palladium on carbon 5 were added. The reaction mixture was stirred vigorously at standard pressure under an atmosphere of hydrogen for 8 h. After filtration through kieselguhr the filtrate was concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue obtained was re dissolved in 50 ml of ethyl acetate. After inertization of the solution with argon another 230 mg of palladium on carbon 5 were added and the reaction mixture was stirred vigorously under standard hydrogen pressure for a further 4 h. After filtration through kieselguhr the filtrate was concentrated under reduced pressure and the residue was re dissolved in 20 ml of THF. After inertization of the solution with argon another 230 mg of palladium on carbon 5 were added and the reaction mixture was stirred vigorously under standard hydrogen pressure for a further 3 h. Following filtration through kieselguhr the filtrate was concentrated under reduced pressure and the residue obtained was purified by chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 40 1 5 1 and separated into the diastereomers. This gave 197 mg of the title compound 22.4 of theory .

2.60 g 5.07 mmol of ethyl 2S 3 3 N benzyloxy carbonyl 4 4 4 trifluorovalylamino 4 fluorophenyl 2 methylpropanoate Example 36A mixture of 4 isomers were dissolved in a mixture of 10.7 ml of ethanol and 10.7 ml of THF. The solution was inertized with argon and 322 mg of palladium on carbon 10 were added. The reaction mixture was stirred vigorously at standard pressure under an atmosphere of hydrogen overnight. After filtration through kieselguhr and washing with dichloromethane methanol the filtrate was concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 10 1 4 1 and separated. This gave 1.39 g of the title compound as diastereomer mixture 1 72.4 of theory .

The diastereomer mixture 1 obtained above of ethyl 2S 3 4 fluoro 3 4 4 4 trifluorovalyl amino phenyl 2 methylpropanoate Example 54A was separated further by preparative HPLC on a chiral phase column Daicel Chiralpak AD H 5 m 250 mm 20 mm injection volume 0.25 ml temperature 45 C. mobile phase 30 isohexane 70 ethanol 0.2 diethylamine flow rate 15 ml min detection 220 nm . 1.39 g of diastereomer mixture gave 0.626 g of the title compound as enantiomer 2 .

1.274 g 2.49 mmol of ethyl 2S 3 3 3R N benzyloxy carbonyl 4 4 4 trifluorovalylamino 4 fluorophenyl 2 methylpropanoate Example 43A diastereomer mixture were dissolved in a mixture of 10 ml of ethanol and 10 ml of THF. The solution was inertized with argon and 132 mg of palladium on carbon 10 were added. The reaction mixture was stirred vigorously at standard pressure under an atmosphere of hydrogen overnight. After filtration through kieselguhr and washing with dichloromethane methanol the filtrate was concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 5 1 2 1 and separated. This gave 713 mg of the title compound 75.9 of theory .

2.36 g 4.61 mmol of ethyl 2R 3 3 N benzyloxy carbonyl 4 4 4 trifluorovalylamino 4 fluorophenyl 2 methylpropanoate Example 37A mixture of 4 isomers were dissolved in a mixture of 9.8 ml of ethanol and 9.8 ml of THF. The solution was inertized with argon and 293 mg of palladium on carbon 10 were added. The reaction mixture was stirred vigorously at standard pressure under an atmosphere of hydrogen overnight. Following filtration through kieselguhr and washing with dichloromethane methanol the filtrate was concentrated under reduced pressure and the residue was purified by chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 10 1 4 1 and separated. This gave 1.35 g of the target compound as diastereomer mixture 1 77.2 of theory .

The diastereomer mixture 1 obtained above of ethyl 2R 3 4 fluoro 3 4 4 4 trifluorovalyl amino phenyl 2 methylpropanoate Example 56A was separated further by preparative HPLC on a chiral phase column Daicel Chiralpak AD H 5 m 250 mm 20 mm injection volume 0.4 ml temperature 45 C. mobile phase 80 isohexane 20 ethanol 0.2 diethylamine flow rate 15 ml min detection 220 nm . 1.35 g of diastereomer mixture gave 0.635 g of the title compound as diastereomer 2 .

1.40 g 2.92 mmol of ethyl 2R 3 3 N allyloxy carbonyl 4 4 4 trifluorovalylamino 4 chlorophenyl 2 methylpropanoate Example 38A mixture of 4 isomers and 3.28 g 23.4 mmol of dimedone were initially charged in 10 ml of abs. THF. At RT the solution was deoxygenated by passing through argon for 30 min. Subsequently 67.6 mg 0.058 mmol of tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium 0 were added and the mixture was stirred at RT overnight. After dilution with ethyl acetate the mixture was washed twice with sat. sodium bicarbonate solution and once with sat. sodium chloride solution. The organic phase was dried over magnesium sulphate and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 40 1 20 1 and separated. This gave 844 mg of the target compound as diastereomer mixture 1 73.1 of theory .

The diastereomer mixture 1 obtained above of ethyl 2R 3 4 chloro 3 4 4 4 trifluorovalyl amino phenyl 2 methylpropanoate Example 58A was separated further by preparative HPLC on a chiral phase column Daicel Chiralpak AD H 5 m 250 mm 20 mm injection volume 0.40 ml temperature 45 C. mobile phase 80 isohexane 20 ethanol 2 diethylamine flow rate 15 ml min detection 220 nm . 840 mg of diastereomer mixture gave 382 mg of the title compound as diastereomer 2 .

2.24 g 4.68 mmol of ethyl 2S 3 3 N allyloxy carbonyl 4 4 4 trifluorovalylamino 4 chlorophenyl 2 methylpropanoate Example 39A mixture of 4 isomers and 5.25 g 37.4 mmol of dimedone were initially charged in 25 ml of abs. THF. At RT the solution was deoxygenated by passing through argon for 30 min Subsequently 108.1 mg 0.094 mmol of tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium 0 were added and the mixture was stirred at RT overnight. After dilution with ethyl acetate the mixture was washed twice with sat. sodium bicarbonate solution and once with sat. sodium chloride solution. The organic phase was dried over magnesium sulphate and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 40 1 20 1 and separated. This gave 1.65 g of the target compound as diastereomer mixture 1 89.4 of theory .

The diastereomer mixture 1 obtained above of ethyl 2S 3 4 chloro 3 4 4 4 trifluorovalyl amino phenyl 2 methylpropanoate Example 60A was separated further by preparative HPLC on a chiral phase column Daicel Chiralpak AD H 5 m 250 mm 20 mm injection volume 0.25 ml temperature 45 C. mobile phase 80 isohexane 20 ethanol 0.2 diethylamine flow rate 15 ml min detection 220 nm . 1.65 g of diastereomer mixture gave 0.78 g of the target compound.

0.99 g 1.87 mmol of ethyl 2S 3 3 3R N benzyloxy carbonyl 4 4 4 trifluorovalylamino 4 chlorophenyl 2 methylpropanoate Example 44A diastereomer mixture were dissolved in 50 ml of ethyl acetate. The solution was inertized with argon and 40 mg of palladium on carbon 5 were added. The reaction mixture was stirred vigorously at standard pressure under an atmosphere of hydrogen for 4 h. Following filtration through kieselguhr the filtrate was concentrated under reduced pressure and the residue was purified by chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 20 1 5 1 and separated. This gave 444 mg of the title compound 60.1 of theory .

630 mg 1.24 mmol of tert butyl 3R 3 3 N allyloxy carbonyl 4 4 4 trifluorovalylamino 4 chlorophenyl butanoate Example 40A mixture of 4 isomers and 1.394 g 9.94 mmol of dimedone were initially charged in 10 ml of abs. THF. At RT the solution was deoxygenated by passing through argon for 30 min. Subsequently 28.7 mg 0.025 mmol of tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium 0 were added and the mixture was stirred at RT overnight. After dilution with ethyl acetate the mixture was washed twice with sat. sodium bicarbonate solution and once with sat. sodium chloride solution. The organic phase was dried over magnesium sulphate and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 40 1 20 1 and separated. This gave 420 mg of the target compound as diastereomer mixture 1 79.9 of theory .

1.39 g 2.74 mmol of tert butyl 3S 3 3 N allyloxy carbonyl 4 4 4 trifluorovalylamino 4 chlorophenyl butanoate Example 41A mixture of 4 isomers and 3.08 g 21.9 mmol of dimedone were initially charged in 9.4 ml of abs. THF. At RT the solution was deoxygenated by passing through argon for 30 min Subsequently 63.4 mg 0.055 mmol of tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium 0 were added and the mixture was stirred at RT overnight. After dilution with ethyl acetate the mixture was washed twice with sat. sodium bicarbonate solution and once with sat. sodium chloride solution. The organic phase was dried over magnesium sulphate and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 40 1 20 1 and separated. This gave 950 mg of the target compound as diastereomer mixture 1 81.9 of theory .

1.30 g 2.56 mmol of tert butyl 3S 3 3 3R N allyloxy carbonyl 4 4 4 trifluorovalylamino 4 chlorophenyl butanoate Example 42A diastereomer mixture and 2.88 g 20.5 mmol of dimedone were initially charged in 8.7 ml of abs. THF. At RT the solution was deoxygenated by passing through argon for 30 min. Subsequently 59.3 mg 0.051 mmol of tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium 0 were added and the mixture was stirred at RT overnight. After dilution with ethyl acetate the mixture was washed twice with sat. sodium bicarbonate solution and once with sat. sodium chloride solution. The organic phase was dried over magnesium sulphate and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 10 1 and separated. This gave 591 mg of the target compound 54.5 of theory .

450 mg 0.867 mmol of tert butyl 1 3 3R N allyloxy carbonyl 4 4 4 trifluorovalylamino 4 chlorobenzyl cyclopropanecarboxylate Example 45A diastereomer mixture and 972.4 mg 6.94 mmol of dimedone were initially charged in 3 ml of abs. THF. At RT the solution was deoxygenated by passing through argon for 30 min. Subsequently 20.0 mg 0.017 mmol of tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium 0 were added and the mixture was stirred at RT overnight. After dilution with ethyl acetate the mixture was washed twice with sat. sodium bicarbonate solution and once with sat. sodium chloride solution. The organic phase was dried over magnesium sulphate and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 20 1 and separated. This gave 221.4 mg of the target compound 58.7 of theory .

12.0 g 59.97 mmol of 3 trifluoromethyl pentanedioic acid were dissolved in 70 ml of abs. THF and after cooling to 10 C. 120 ml 120 mmol of a 1 M solution of lithium aluminium hydride in THF were added dropwise. After the addition had ended the reaction mixture was warmed to RT overnight. After cooling to 0 C. initially about 10 ml of isopropanol and then 20 ml of an isopropanol water mixture 3 1 were carefully added dropwise. The resulting suspension was acidified by addition of 1 N hydrochloric acid and mixed with Celite. The mixture was filtered and the filtrate obtained was concentrated under reduced pressure. To remove residual water acetonitrile was added to the oil obtained and the mixture was once more concentrated under reduced pressure. The crude product was purified by chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 4 1 1 1 . This gave 4.5 g of the target product 43.6 of theory .

3.0 g 14.4 mmol of 3 phenylglutaric acid were dissolved in 20 ml of abs. THF the mixture was cooled to 10 C. and 31.7 ml 31.7 mmol of a 1 M solution of lithium aluminium hydride in THF were added dropwise. During the addition a further 50 ml of abs. THF were added. The resulting suspension was slowly warmed to RT and stirred at RT overnight. After cooling to 0 C. initially isopropanol and then a mixture of isopropanol and water 3 1 were carefully added dropwise. The resulting suspension was acidified by addition of 1 N hydrochloric acid and mixed with Celite. The mixture was filtered through Celite the filter cake was washed with isopropanol and the filtrate obtained was concentrated under reduced pressure. The crude product was purified by chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 2 1 1 1 . This gave 1.9 g of the target product 73 of theory .

Further 3 substituted pentane 1 5 diols not commercially available can be prepared for example analogously to the following three step sequence 68A 69A 70A 

At 0 C. 13.0 ml 64.85 mmol of ethyl diethylphosphonoacetate were added dropwise to a suspension of 2.59 g 64.85 mmol of sodium hydride 60 in mineral oil in 110 ml of abs. THF. After 30 min the mixture was warmed to RT and after cooling again to 0 C. 5.3 ml 71.34 mmol of cyclopropanecarboxaldehyde were added dropwise. After the end of the addition the reaction mixture was warmed to RT and diluted with 35 ml of DMF. The mixture was stirred at RT overnight and then added to water. The mixture was extracted three times with ethyl acetate. The combined organic phases were concentrated under reduced pressure and the crude product was purified by filtration through silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 10 1 6 1 . This gave 8.53 g of the target product 93.8 of theory .

29.1 ml 72.8 mmol of a 2.5 M solution of n butyllithium in hexane were added dropwise to a solution cooled to 40 C. of 10.2 ml 72.8 mmol of diisopropylamine in 35 ml of abs. THF. After the end of the addition the mixture was stirred at 40 C. for another 30 min and then cooled to 78 C. and a solution of 7.1 ml 72.8 mmol of ethyl acetate in 10 ml of abs. THF was added dropwise. The reaction mixture was stirred at 78 C. for 30 min and a solution of 8.50 g 60.54 mmol of ethyl 3 cyclopropylacrylate in a little THF was then added dropwise. After 1 h at 78 C. the mixture was slowly warmed to 40 C. then to 0 C. and a saturated aqueous ammonium chloride solution was finally added. After extraction with ethyl acetate the organic phase was washed with 1 N hydrochloric acid and sat. sodium chloride solution dried over sodium sulphate and concentrated under reduced pressure. The crude product was purified by chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 30 1 6 1 . This gave 3.28 g of the target product 23.7 of theory .

3.2 g 14.02 mmol of diethyl 3 cyclopropylpentanedioate were dissolved in 24.7 ml of abs. THF and after cooling to 10 C. 25.2 ml 25.2 mmol of a 1 M solution of lithium aluminium hydride in THF were added dropwise. The reaction mixture was stirred at RT overnight. After cooling to 0 C. 100 ml of isopropanol were carefully added dropwise. The mixture was acidified by addition of 1 N hydrochloric acid and mixed with Celite. After filtration through Celite and washing with ethyl acetate and water the filtrate was saturated with sodium chloride and extracted three times with ethyl acetate. The combined organic phases were dried over magnesium sulphate and concentrated under reduced pressure. The crude product was purified by chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 10 1 2 1 . This gave 1.35 g of the target product 66.8 of theory .

The title compound can be obtained analogously to the three step process 68A 69A 70A described above.

General Procedure 2 Oxidation of 3 Substituted Pentane 1 5 Diols to Dialdehydes or their Cyclic Acetals 

2.6 eq. of oxalyl chloride are dissolved in abs. dichloromethane 1.0 to 2.5 mol l and cooled to about 50 C. and a solution of 5 eq. of DMSO in abs. dichloromethane about 5 mol l is added dropwise. After 10 min at about 50 C. a solution of the diol in question 1.0 eq. in abs. dichloromethane 0.5 to 1.0 mol l is added dropwise. After a further 10 min the reaction mixture is cooled to 78 C. and a mixture of triethylamine about 10.5 eq. and abs. dichloromethane ratio by volume 1 1 to 1 2 is added dropwise. After the end of the addition the reaction mixture is stirred at about 78 C. for another 30 min and then warmed slowly to about 20 C. 0 C. or RT diluted with dichloromethane washed with sat. sodium bicarbonate solution dried over sodium sulphate and concentrated under reduced pressure. The crude product obtained is not purified any further but can be employed directly for subsequent reactions.

The examples below were prepared in accordance with the General Procedure 2 and used without further purification in general the dialdehydes could be stored as crude product at 20 C. under argon 

A suspension of 240 g 1.38 mol of 1 ethoxycyclopropyl oxy trimethyl silane 598 g 1.79 mol of methoxycarbonylmethylene triphenylphosphorane and 21.9 g 0.179 mol of benzoic acid in 3.94 liters of toluene was stirred at 85 C. overnight. After cooling the reaction mixture was purified directly by chromatography on 4.8 kg of silica gel mobile phase petroleum ether dichloromethane mixture from 1 1 to pure dichloromethane . The product fractions were combined and concentrated under slightly reduced pressure. This gave 159 g of the target product as a clear colourless oil crude product still contained residual solvent .

240 ml 1.70 mol of diisopropylamine were dissolved in 700 ml of abs. THF the mixture was cooled to 40 C. and 681 ml 1.7 mol of a 2.5 M solution of n butyllithium in hexane were added slowly. The solution was stirred at 40 C. for 30 min and then cooled to 78 C. and a solution of 166.6 ml 1.7 mol of ethyl acetate p.a. in 200 ml of abs. THF was added. After the end of the addition the mixture was stirred at 78 C. for another 30 min 159 g crude product about 1.42 mol of methyl cyclopropylideneacetate dissolved in a little abs. THF were then added dropwise. The reaction mixture was stirred at 78 C. for 1 h and then via 40 C. slowly warmed to about 0 C. and a saturated aqueous ammonium chloride solution was finally added. The mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate and the organic phase was washed with 1 N hydrochloric acid and sat. sodium chloride solution dried over sodium sulphate and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified chromatographically on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 9 1 . This gave 109.5 g of the target compound which was contaminated by the diethyl ester derivative and was not purified any further.

109.5 g crude product about 547 mmol of ethyl methyl 2 2 cyclopropane 1 1 diyldiacetate were dissolved in 750 ml of p.a. THF and at 20 C. 984 ml 984 mmol of a 1 M solution of lithium aluminium hydride in THF were added dropwise. The reaction mixture was warmed to RT overnight and after cooling again to 10 C. 500 ml of isopropanol were added carefully. The mixture was acidified with 1 N hydrochloric acid and filtered off with suction through Celite. The residue was washed with ethyl acetate and water. The filtrate was saturated with sodium chloride and extracted repeatedly with ethyl acetate. The combined organic phases were dried over sodium sulphate and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was recrystallized from acetonitrile. This gave 50.4 g of the target product 70.8 of theory .

7.0 ml 79.9 mmol of oxalyl chloride were dissolved in 45 ml of abs. dichloromethane the mixture was cooled to 50 C. and a solution of 10.9 ml 163.6 mmol of DMSO in 45 ml of abs. dichloromethane was added dropwise. After the end of the addition the mixture was stirred at 50 C. for another 10 min and 4.0 g 30.7 mmol of 2 2 cyclopropane 1 1 diyldiethanol dissolved in 45 ml of abs. dichloromethane were then added slowly. The resulting suspension was stirred at 50 C. for 10 min and then cooled to 78 C. and a solution of 44.5 ml 320 mmol of triethylamine in 75 ml of abs. dichloromethane was added dropwise. After the end of the addition the reaction mixture was stirred at 78 C. for 30 min and then slowly warmed to RT and subsequently washed with saturated aqueous sodium bisulphate solution. The organic phase was dried over sodium sulphate and concentrated under reduced pressure. This gave 5.10 g of the target product as an orange oil crude product of a purity of about 70 about 92 of theory .

705 mg 2.89 mmol of 1 5 dibromo 3 methylpentane and 7.2 ml of 1 N aqueous sodium hydroxide solution were added to 300 mg 1.45 mmol of 4 4 4 trifluorovaline hydrochloride in 6 ml of ethanol and the mixture was stirred under reflux overnight. After addition of a further 1.0 eq. of 1 5 dibromo 3 methylpentane and 5.0 eq. of sodium hydroxide the mixture was once more stirred under reflux for 8 h and then after cooling concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was taken up in a little water and neutralized with 1 N hydrochloric acid. The aqueous phase was extracted repeatedly with ethyl acetate. The combined organic phases were dried over sodium sulphate and concentrated under reduced pressure. This gave as crude product 270 mg of 4 4 4 trifluoro 3 methyl 2 4 methylpiperidin 1 yl butanoic acid racemic diastereomer mixture .

270 mg of 4 4 4 trifluoro 3 methyl 2 4 methylpiperidin 1 yl butanoic acid crude product racemic diastereomer mixture were dissolved in 2.5 ml of pyridine and 4.9 ml of DMF and 286 mg 1.12 mmol of tert butyl 3 3 amino 4 chlorophenyl propanoate and 527 mg 1.37 mmol of HATU were added at RT. The mixture was stirred at 40 C. overnight. A further 0.5 eq. of HATU and 2 ml of N N diisopropylethylamine were added and the reaction mixture was once more stirred at 50 C. for 5 h and then added to water. The mixture was extracted three times with ethyl acetate and the combined organic phases were washed with a little 1 N hydrochloric acid dried over magnesium sulphate and concentrated under reduced pressure. The crude product was purified by preparative RP HPLC mobile phase acetonitrile water . This gave 50 mg of the target product 9.6 of theory as a diastereomer mixture about 3 2 .

General Procedure 3 Preparation of Substituted Piperidinoacetanilides from Aminoacetanilides According to the Reaction Scheme Below 

At RT triethylamine 1.5 to 2.0 eq. 1 N hydrochloric acid about 0.25 to 0.5 eq. the dialdehyde in question or its cyclic acetal form as a crude mixture about 2.0 to 4.0 eq. and after about 5 to 15 min sodium cyanoborohydride 2.0 bis 4.0 eq. are added to a solution of the aminoacetanilide component in question 1.0 eq. in methanol about 0.05 mol l to 1 mol l . The mixture is stirred at RT for about 12 to 72 hours and during this time further quantities of triethylamine 1 N hydrochloric acid dialdehyde and or sodium cyanoborohydride are added if required. After the reaction has ended the reaction mixture is added to water. The aqueous phase is extracted three times with ethyl acetate and the combined organic phases are concentrated under reduced pressure. The crude product mixture obtained can be employed directly in the next step or is preferably purified beforehand by preparative RP HPLC mobile phase acetonitrile water gradient .

At 0 C. or RT the respective intermediate mixture from step 1 crude or purified is dissolved in trifluoroacetic acid concentration about 0.1 to 2.0 mol l and a large excess of triethylsilane 6 to 15 eq. is then added dropwise at 0 C. to RT. The mixture is stirred at RT for 4 to 24 h if required the mixture is heated at 40 C. until complete conversion is achieved. The reaction mixture is then concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue is taken up in ethyl acetate and washed with water and sodium bicarbonate solution until about neutral pH 6 7 . After concentration under reduced pressure the crude product can be purified by preparative RP HPLC mobile phase acetonitrile water or methanol water by chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate or dichloromethane methanol mixtures or by a combination of these methods or it is directly reacted further without purification.

50 mg 0.45 mmol of cyclopent 1 en 1 ylboronic acid 51 mg 0.45 mmol of 4 methoxypiperidine and 41 mg 0.45 mmol of glyoxalic acid monohydrate were initially charged in 2 ml of dichloromethane and 78 l 57 mg 0.45 mmol of N N diisopropylethylamine were added. The mixture was stirred at RT for 2 d and then concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by preparative HPLC RP18 column acetonitrile water gradient with addition of 0.1 TFA 10 90 95 5 run time 38 min . This gave 31 mg 29 of theory of the title compound.

50 mg 0.45 mmol of cyclopent 1 en 1 ylboronic acid 59.5 mg 0.45 mmol of 1 2 3 4 tetrahydroisoquinoline and 41 mg 0.45 mmol of glyoxalic acid monohydrate were initially charged in 2 ml of dichloromethane and 78 l 57 mg 0.45 mmol of N N diisopropylethylamine were added. The mixture was stirred at RT for overnight and then concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by preparative HPLC RP18 column acetonitrile water gradient with addition of 0.1 TFA 10 90 95 5 run time 38 min 101 mg 91 purity 80 of theory of the title compound were obtained.

30.9 mg 0.13 mmol of rac cyclopent 1 en 1 yl 4 methoxypiperidin 1 yl acetic acid were initially charged in 0.87 ml of DMF pyridine 3 1 63.8 mg 0.17 mmol of HATU were added and the mixture was stirred at RT for 30 min 34.3 mg 0.13 mmol of tert butyl 1 3 amino 4 fluorobenzyl cyclopropanecarboxylate were then added and the reaction mixture was stirred at RT overnight. The mixture was then diluted with ethyl acetate washed repeatedly with saturated sodium chloride solution dried over magnesium sulphate and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by preparative HPLC RP18 column acetonitrile water gradient with addition of 0.1 TFA 10 90 95 5 run time 38 min . This gave 20.7 mg 33 of theory of the title compound.

100 mg 0.39 mmol of rac cyclopent 1 en 1 yl 3 4 dihydroisoquinolin 2 1H yl acetic acid were initially charged in 2.6 ml of DMF pyridine 3 1 192 mg 0.51 mmol of HATU were added and the mixture was stirred at RT for 30 min. 103 mg 0.39 mmol of tert butyl 1 3 amino 4 fluorobenzyl cyclopropanecarboxylate were then added and the reaction mixture was stirred at RT overnight. The mixture was then purified directly by preparative HPLC RP18 column acetonitrile water gradient with addition of 0.1 TFA 10 90 95 5 run time 38 min . The product obtained in this manner was taken up in ethyl acetate and washed repeatedly with 1 N hydrochloric acid. The organic phase was dried over magnesium sulphate and concentrated under reduced pressure. This gave 103 mg purity 72 37 of theory of the title compound which was reacted without further purification.

20.7 mg 0.04 mmol of rac tert Butyl 1 3 cyclopent 1 en 1 yl 4 methoxypiperidin 1 yl acetyl amino 4 fluorobenzyl cyclopropanecarboxylate were initially charged in 3 ml of methanol 3 mg 0.01 mmol of platinum IV oxide were added and the mixture was hydrogenated at RT and standard pressure for 5 h. The mixture was then filtered through kieselguhr the residue was washed thoroughly with methanol and the filtrate was concentrated under reduced pressure. 19.5 mg 100 purity 94 of theory of the title compound were obtained.

102 mg 0.2 mmol purity 72 of rac tert butyl 1 3 cyclopent 1 en 1 yl 3 4 dihydroisoquinolin 2 1H yl acetyl amino 4 fluorobenzyl cyclopropanecarboxylate were initially charged in 14.4 ml of methanol 14.4 mg 0.06 mmol of platinum IV oxide were added and the mixture was hydrogenated at RT and standard pressure for 5 h. The mixture was then filtered through kieselguhr the residue was washed thoroughly with methanol and the filtrate was concentrated under reduced pressure. This gave 102 mg purity 36 of the title compound which was reacted further without purification.

45.0 mg 0.092 mmol of tert butyl 3 4 chloro 3 4 4 4 trifluoro 3 methyl 2 4 methylpiperidin 1 yl butanoyl aminophenyl propanoate racemic diastereomer mixture were dissolved in 0.1 ml of dichloromethane and 0.35 ml of trifluoroacetic acid was added at RT. The reaction mixture was stirred at RT overnight and then concentrated under reduced pressure. The crude product was purified by preparative RP HPLC mobile phase acetonitrile water . This gave 39.0 mg of the target product as a diastereomer mixture 97.9 of theory .

General Procedure 4 Preparation of Substituted Piperidinoacetanilides from Aminoacetanilides According to the Reaction Scheme Below 

At RT triethylamine 1.5 to 2.0 eq. 1 N hydrochloric acid about 0.25 to 0.5 eq. the dialdehyde in question or its cyclic acetal form as a crude mixture about 2.0 to 4.0 eq. and after about 5 to 15 min sodium cyanoborohydride 2.0 bis 4.0 eq. are added to a solution of the aminoacetanilide component in question 1.0 eq. in methanol about 0.05 mol l to 1 mol l . The mixture is stirred at RT for about 12 to 72 hours and during this time further quantities of triethylamine 1 N hydrochloric acid dialdehyde and or sodium cyanoborohydride are added if required. After the reaction has ended the reaction mixture is added to water. The aqueous phase is extracted three times with ethyl acetate and the combined organic phases are concentrated under reduced pressure. The crude product mixture obtained can be employed directly in the next step or is preferably purified beforehand by preparative RP HPLC mobile phase acetonitrile water gradient .

At 0 C. or RT the respective intermediate mixture from step 1 crude or purified is dissolved in trifluoroacetic acid concentration about 0.1 to 2.0 mol l and a large excess of triethylsilane 10 to 20 eq. is then added dropwise at 0 C. to RT. The mixture is stirred at RT for 4 to 24 h if required the mixture is heated at 40 C. until complete conversion is achieved. The reaction mixture is then concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue is taken up in ethyl acetate and washed with water adjusted to almost neutral pH 6 7 by addition of a little sat. sodium bicarbonate solution . After concentration under reduced pressure the crude product can be purified by preparative RP HPLC mobile phase acetonitrile water or methanol water gradient by crystallization from acetonitrile or water acetonitrile mixtures or by a combination of these methods.

The title compound was obtained according to General Procedure 4 from tert butyl 1 4 chloro 3 3R 4 4 4 trifluoro valyl aminobenzyl cyclopropanecarboxylate and 2 2 cyclopropane 1 1 diyldiacetaldehyde. Yield 111.7 mg 63.8 of theory .

The title compound was obtained according to General Procedure 4 from tert butyl 1 4 chloro 3 3R 4 4 4 trifluoro valyl aminobenzyl cyclopropanecarboxylate and 3 ethylpentanedial. Yield 33 mg 39.7 of theory .

General Procedure 5 Cleavage of Ethyl Esters to the Corresponding Carboxylic Acids Using a Mixture of Hydrochloric Acid or Sulphuric Acid with Acetic Acid

A solution of the ethyl ester in question in a mixture about 1 1 to 3 1 of acetic acid and concentrated hydrochloric acid or of acetic acid and 10 strength 20 strength or semiconcentrated sulphuric acid is stirred at temperatures of from 80 C. to 140 C. optionally under reflux for 30 min up to 12 h. After cooling the reaction mixture is either concentrated directly under reduced pressure or added to water. The aqueous phase is then adjusted to about neutral using aqueous sodium hydroxide solution and extracted with ethyl acetate or dichloromethane and the combined organic phases are concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue is taken up in ethyl acetate and washed with water adjusted to about neutral pH 6 7.7 by addition of a little sat. sodium bicarbonate solution . After concentration under reduced pressure the crude product can be purified by preparative RP HPLC mobile phase acetonitrile water or methanol water gradient by crystallization from acetonitrile or water acetonitrile mixtures or by a combination of these methods.

The racemic mixture obtained above of 1 4 fluoro 3 4 4 4 trifluoro 3 methyl 2 piperidin 1 yl butanoyl aminobenzyl cyclopropanecarboxylic acid Example 2 racemic diastereomer 1 was separated further by preparative HPLC on a chiral phase column Daicel Chiralpak AD H 5 m 250 mm 20 mm injection volume 0.50 ml temperature 40 C. mobile phase 75 isohexan 25 isopropanol 0.2 TFA 1 HO flow rate 15 ml min detection 220 nm . 290 mg of mixture gave 127 mg of the title compound as enantiomer 2.

The racemic mixture obtained above of 1 4 fluoro 3 4 4 4 trifluoro 3 methyl 2 4 methylpiperidin 1 yl butanoyl aminobenzyl cyclopropanecarboxylic acid Example 4 racemic diastereomer 1 was separated further by preparative HPLC on a chiral phase column Daicel Chiralpak AD H 5 m 250 mm 20 mm injection volume 0.30 ml temperature 40 C. mobile phase 75 isohexane 25 isopropanol 0.2 TFA 1 HO flow rate 15 ml min detection 220 nm . 400 mg of mixture gave 271 mg of the title compound as enantiomer 2 as trifluoroacetic acid salt. This salt was then suspended in a little water acetonitrile neutralized by stirring with 1 N aqueous sodium hydroxide solution and then re purified by preparative RP HPLC mobile phase acetonitrile water gradient . This gave 60 mg of the title compound.

The racemic mixture obtained above of 3 4 fluoro 3 4 4 4 trifluoro 3 methyl 2 4 methylpiperidin 1 yl butanoyl aminophenyl propanoic acid Example 6 racemic diastereomer 2 was separated further by preparative HPLC on a chiral phase column Daicel Chiralpak AD H 5 m 250 mm 20 mm injection volume 0.40 ml temperature 25 C. mobile phase 80 isohexane 20 ethanol 0.2 TFA 1 HO flow rate 15 ml min detection 220 nm . 58 mg of mixture gave 38 mg of the title compound as enantiomer 2.

The racemic mixture obtained above of 1 3 2 4 ethylpiperidin 1 yl 4 4 4 trifluoro 3 methylbutanoyl amino 4 fluorobenzyl cyclopropanecarboxylic acid Example 8 racemic diastereomer 1 was separated further by preparative HPLC on a chiral phase column Daicel Chiralpak AD H 5 m 250 mm 20 mm injection volume 1.5 ml temperature RT mobile phase 50 isohexane 50 isopropanol flow rate 18 ml min detection 230 nm . 275 mg of mixture gave 125 mg of enantiomer 1 Example 38 and 122 mg of enantiomer 2 Example 39 

The racemic mixture obtained above of 3 3 2 4 ethylpiperidin 1 yl 4 4 4 trifluoro 3 methylbutanoyl amino 4 fluorophenyl propanoic acid Example 9 racemic diastereomer 1 was separated further by preparative HPLC on a chiral phase column Daicel Chiralpak AD H 5 m 250 mm 20 mm injection volume 1.5 ml temperature RT mobile phase 60 isohexane 40 isopropanol flow rate 18 ml min detection 230 nm . 260 mg of mixture gave 101 mg of enantiomer 1 Example 40 and 92 mg of enantiomer 2 Example 41 

The racemic mixture obtained above of 3 4 chloro 3 4 4 4 trifluoro 3 methyl 2 4 methylpiperidin 1 yl butanoyl aminophenyl propanoic acid Example 13 racemic diastereomer 1 was separated further by preparative HPLC on a chiral phase column Daicel Chiralpak AD H 5 m 250 mm 20 mm injection volume 1.0 ml temperature 30 C. mobile phase 70 isohexane 30 isopropanol flow rate 15 ml min detection 220 nm . 180 mg of mixture gave 77 mg of enantiomer 1 Example 42 and 85 mg of enantiomer 2 Example 43 

The racemic mixture obtained above of 3 4 chloro 3 2 4 ethylpiperidin 1 yl 4 4 4 trifluoro 3 methylbutanoyl aminophenyl propanoic acid Example 11 racemic diastereomer 1 was separated further by preparative HPLC on a chiral phase column Daicel Chiralpak AD H 5 m 250 mm 20 mm injection volume 1.0 ml temperature 30 C. mobile phase 70 isohexane 30 isopropanol flow rate 15 ml min detection 220 nm . 151 mg of mixture gave 52.2 mg of enantiomer 1 Example 44 and 72.2 mg of enantiomer 2 Example 45 

From ethyl 2S 3 3 2 6 azaspiro 2.5 oct 6 yl 4 4 4 trifluoro 3 methylbutanoyl amino 4 chlorophenyl 2 methylpropanoate Example 82A according to General Procedure 5 the corresponding carboxylic acid was prepared as a diastereomer mixture. This diastereomer mixture was then separated further by preparative HPLC on a chiral phase column Daicel Chiralpak AD H 5 m 250 mm 20 mm injection volume 1.0 ml temperature RT mobile phase 60 isohexane 40 isopropanol flow rate 18 ml min detection 230 nm . 348 mg of diastereomer mixture gave 160 mg of diastereomer 2 which was purified further by preparative RP HPLC mobile phase acetonitrile water gradient . This gave 113 mg of the pure title compound.

The diastereomer mixture of 3R 3 3 2R 3R 2 6 azaspiro 2.5 oct 6 yl 4 4 4 trifluoro 3 methylbutanoyl amino 4 chlorophenyl butanoic acid and 3R 3 3 2S 3S 2 6 azaspiro 2.5 oct 6 yl 4 4 4 trifluoro 3 methylbutanoyl amino 4 chlorophenyl butanoic acid prepared according to General Procedure 4 from tert butyl 3R 3 4 chloro 3 4 4 4 trifluorovalyl amino phenylbutanoate Example 62A and 2 2 cyclopropane 1 1 diyldiacetaldehyde was separated by preparative HPLC on a chiral phase column Daicel Chiralpak AD H 5 m 250 mm 20 mm injection volume 0.75 ml temperature RT mobile phase 70 isohexane 30 isopropanol flow rate 18 ml min detection 230 nm . 209 mg of diastereomer mixture gave 76 mg of the title compound as diastereomer 2.

The diastereomer mixture of 3R 3 4 chloro 3 2R 3R 4 4 4 trifluoro 3 methyl 2 4 methylpiperidin 1 yl butanoyl aminophenyl butanoic acid and 3R 3 4 chloro 3 2S 3S 4 4 4 trifluoro 3 methyl 2 4 methylpiperidin 1 yl butanoyl aminophenyl butanoic acid prepared according to General Procedure 4 from tert butyl 3R 3 4 chloro 3 4 4 4 trifluorovalyl amino phenylbutanoate Example 62A and 3 methylpentanedial was separated by preparative HPLC on a chiral phase column Daicel Chiralpak AD H 5 m 250 mm 20 mm injection volume 0.75 ml temperature RT mobile phase 70 isohexane 30 isopropanol flow rate 20 ml min detection 230 nm . 195 mg of diastereomer mixture gave 92 mg of the title compound as diastereomer 2.

The mixture obtained above of 3S 3 4 chloro 3 2R 3R 4 4 4 trifluoro 3 methyl 2 4 methylpiperidin 1 yl butanoyl aminophenyl butanoic acid and 3S 3 4 chloro 3 2S 3S 4 4 4 trifluoro 3 methyl 2 4 methylpiperidin 1 yl butanoyl aminophenyl butanoic acid Example 20 diastereomer mixture 1 was separated by preparative HPLC on a chiral phase column Daicel Chiralpak AS H 5 m 250 mm 20 mm injection volume 1.2 ml temperature RT mobile phase 70 isohexane 30 isopropanol flow rate 20 ml min detection 230 nm . 182 mg of diastereomer mixture gave 77 mg of the title compound as diastereomer 1.

The mixture obtained above of 3S 3 3 2R 3R 2 6 azaspiro 2.5 oct 6 yl 4 4 4 trifluoro 3 methylbutanoyl amino 4 chlorophenyl butanoic acid and 3S 3 3 2S 3S 2 6 azaspiro 2.5 oct 6 yl 4 4 4 trifluoro 3 methylbutanoyl amino 4 chlorophenyl butanoic acid Example 21 diastereomer mixture 1 was separated by preparative HPLC on a chiral phase column Daicel Chiralpak AS H 5 m 250 mm 20 mm injection volume 1.0 ml temperature RT mobile phase 10 isohexane 90 isopropanol flow rate 20 ml min detection 230 nm . 252 mg of diastereomer mixture gave 104 mg of the title compound as diastereomer 1.

The title compound was obtained according to General Procedure 4 from tert butyl 1 4 chloro 3 3R 4 4 4 trifluoro valyl aminobenzyl cyclopropanecarboxylate Example 65A and 3 methylpentanedial.

20.1 mg 0.04 mmol of rac tert butyl 1 3 cyclopentyl 4 methoxypiperidin 1 yl acetyl amino 4 fluorobenzyl cyclopropanecarboxylate Example 95A were dissolved in 2.4 ml of 20 strength trifluoroacetic acid in dichloromethane and stirred at RT for 5 h. The mixture was then concentrated on a rotary evaporator and the residue was purified by preparative HPLC RP18 column mobile phase acetonitrile water gradient with addition of 0.1 TFA 10 90 95 5 run time 38 min . This gave 6.8 mg 30 of theory of the title compound.

101 mg 0.2 mmol of rac tert butyl 1 3 cyclopentyl 3 4 dihydroisoquinolin 2 1H yl acetyl amino 4 fluorobenzyl cyclopropanecarboxylate Example 96A were dissolved in 11.5 ml of 20 strength trifluoroacetic acid in dichloromethane and stirred at RT for 5 h. The mixture was then concentrated on a rotary evaporator and the residue was purified by preparative HPLC RP18 column mobile phase acetonitrile water gradient with addition of 0.1 TFA 10 90 95 5 run time 38 min . This gave 14.4 mg 13 of theory of the title compound.

The investigations on the stimulation of recombinant soluble guanylate cyclase sGC by the compounds according to the invention with and without sodium nitroprusside and with and without the haem dependent sGC inhibitor 1H 1 2 4 oxadiazolo 4 3 a quinoxalin 1 one ODQ are carried out by the method described in detail in the following literature reference M. Hoenicka E. M. Becker H. Apeler T. Sirichoke H. Schroeder R. Gerzer and J. P. Stasch Purified soluble guanylyl cyclase expressed in a baculovirus Sf9 system Stimulation by YC 1 nitric oxide and carbon oxide 77 1999 14 23. Haem free guanylate cyclase is obtained by adding Tween 20 to the sample buffer final concentration 0.5 .

Activation of sGC by a test substance is stated as x fold stimulation of basal activity. The result for Example 25 is shown in Table 1 

It can be seen from Table 1 that stimulation both of the haem containing and of the haem free enzyme is achieved. Furthermore the combination of Example 25 with 2 N N diethylamino diazenolate 2 oxide DEA NO an NO donor shows no synergistic effect i.e. the activity of DEA NO is not potentiated as would be expected for an sGC activator acting via a haem dependent mechanism. In addition the activity of the sGC activator according to the invention is not blocked but in contrast even enhanced by 1H 1 2 4 oxadiazolo 4 3 a quinoxalin 1 one ODQ a heam dependent inhibitor of soluble guanylate cyclase. Accordingly the results in Table 1 confirm the mechanism of action of the compounds according to the invention as activators of soluble guanylate cyclase.

The cellular activity of the compounds according to the invention is determined using a recombinant guanylate cyclase reporter cell line as described in F. Wunder et al. 339 104 112 2005 .

Soluble guanylate cyclase sGC converts on stimulation GTP into cGMP and pyrophosphate PPi . PPi is detected with the aid of the assay described below. The signal produced in the assay increases as the reaction progresses and serves as a measure of the sGC enzyme activity under the given stimulation.

To carry out the assay 29 l of enzyme solution 0 10 nM soluble guanylate cyclase prepared according to H nicka et al. 77 14 23 1999 in 50 mM TEA 2 mM MgCl 0.1 BSA fraction V 0.005 Brij pH 7.5 are initially introduced into a microplate and 1 l of the substance to be tested as a serially diluted solution in DMSO is added. The mixture is incubated at room temperature for 10 min. Then 20 l of detection mix 1.2 nM Firefly Luciferase luciferase Promega 29 M dehydroluciferin prepared according to Bitler McElroy 72 358 1957 122 M luciferin Promega 153 M ATP Sigma and 0.4 mM DTT Sigma in 50 mM TEA 2 mM MgCl 0.1 BSA fraction V 0.005 Brij pH 7.5 are added. The enzyme reaction is started by adding 20 l of substrate solution 1.25 mM guanosine 5 triphosphate Sigma in 50 mM TEA 2 mM MgCl 0.1 BSA fraction V 0.005 Brij pH 7.5 and measured continuously in a luminometer. The extent of the stimulation by the substance to be tested can be determined relative to the signal of the unstimulated reaction.

The activation of haem free guanylate cyclase is examined by addition of 25 M of 1H 1 2 4 oxadiazolo 4 3 a quinoxalin 1 one ODQ to the enzyme solution and subsequent incubation for 30 minutes and compared to the stimulation of the native enzyme.

Rabbits are anaesthetized by intravenous injection of thiopental sodium or killed about 50 mg kg and exsanguinated. The arteria saphena is removed and divided into 3 mm wide rings. The rings are individually mounted on in each case one triangular pair of hooks open at the end made of 0.3 mm strong special wire Remanium . Under pretension each ring is transferred into 5 ml organ baths containing a warm carbogen aerated Krebs Henseleit solution at 37 C. having the following composition NaCl 119 mM KCl 4.8 mM CaCl 2 HO 1 mM MgSO 7 HO 1.4 mM KHPO1.2 mM NaHCO25 mM glucose 10 mM bovine serum albumin 0.001 . The contractile force is determined with Statham UC2 cells amplified and digitalized using A D transducers DAS 1802 HC Keithley Instruments Munich and recorded in parallel on linear recorders. Contractions are induced by addition of phenylephrin.

After several in general 4 control cycles the substance to be investigated is added in each further passage in increasing dosage and the height of the contraction achieved under the influence of the test substance is compared with the height of the contraction achieved in the last preliminary passage. From this the concentration which is necessary in order to reduce the contraction achieved in the preliminary control by 50 IC is calculated. The standard administration volume is 5 l. The proportion of DMSO in the bath solution corresponds to 0.1 .

A commercially available telemetry system from Data Sciences International DSI USA is employed for the measurements on conscious SH rats described below.

The system consists of 3 main components 1 implantable sender 2 receiver which are via a multiplexer linked to a 3 data aquisition computer. The telemetry system makes it possible to continuously record blood pressure and heart rate of conscious animals in their usual habitat.

The studies are conducted on adult female spontaneously hypertensive rats SH rats with a body weight of 200 g. After transmitter implantation the experimental animals are housed singly in type 3 Makrolon cages. They have free access to standard feed and water. The day night rhythm in the experimental laboratory is changed by the room lighting at 6.00 am and at 7.00 pm.

The telemetry transmitters used TAM PA C40 DSI are surgically implanted under aseptic conditions in the experimental animals at least 14 days before the first experimental use. The animals instrumented in this way can be used repeatedly after the wound has healed and the implant has settled.

For the implantation the fasted animals are anaesthetized with pentobarbital Nembutal Sanofi 50 mg kg i.p. and shaved and disinfected over a large area of their abdomens. After the abdominal cavity has been opened along the linea alba the liquid filled measuring catheter of the system is inserted into the descending aorta in the cranial direction above the bifurcation and fixed with tissue glue VetBonD 3M . The transmitter housing is fixed intraperitoneally to the abdominal wall muscle and the wound is closed layer by layer. An antibiotic Tardomyocel COMP Bayer AG 1 ml kg s.c. is administered postoperatively for prophylaxis of infection.

The substances to be studied are administered orally by gavage to a group of animals in each case n 6 . In accordance with an administration volume of 5 ml kg of body weight the test substances are dissolved in suitable solvent mixtures or suspended in 0.5 tylose. A solvent treated group of animals is used as control.

The telemetry measuring system is configured for 24 animals. Each experiment is registered under an experiment number.

Each of the instrumented rats living in the system is assigned a separate receiving antenna 1010 Receiver DSI . The implanted senders can be activated externally via an installed magnetic switch and are switched to transmission during the pre run of the experiment. The signals emitted can be detected online by a data acquisition system Dataquest A.R.T. for Windows DSI and processed accordingly. The data are stored in each case in a file created for this purpose and bearing the experiment number.

In the standard procedure the following are measured for 10 second periods in each case 1 systolic blood pressure SBP 2 diastolic blood pressure DBP 3 mean arterial pressure MAP and 4 heart rate HR .

The acquisition of measurements is repeated under computer control at 5 minute intervals. The source data obtained as absolute values are corrected in the diagram with the currently measured barometric pressure and stored as individual data. Further technical details are given in the documentation from the manufacturer company DSI .

Administration of the test substances takes place at 9 a.m. on the day of the experiment. Following the administration the parameters described above are measured over 24 hours. After the end of the experiment the acquired individual data are sorted using the analysis software Dataquest A.R.T. Analysis . The blank value is taken at the time 2 hours before administration and the selected data set therefore encompasses the period from 7 00 am on the day of the experiment to 9 00 am on the following day.

The data are smoothed over a predefinable period by determination of the average 15 minute average 30 minute average and transferred as a text file to a storage medium. The measured values presorted and compressed in this way are transferred to Excel templates and tabulated.

100 mg of the compound according to the invention 50 mg of lactose monohydrate 50 mg of corn starch native 10 mg of polyvinylpyrrolidone PVP 25 BASF Ludwigshafen Germany and 2 mg of magnesium stearate.

The mixture of inventive compound lactose and starch is granulated with a 5 solution w w of the PVP in water. The granules are dried and then mixed with the magnesium stearate for 5 minutes. This mixture is compressed in a conventional tablet press see above for format of the tablet . The guide value used for the pressing is a pressing force of 15 kN.

1000 mg of the compound according to the invention 1000 mg of ethanol 96 400 mg of Rhodigel xanthan gum from FMC Pennsylvania USA and 99 g of water.

10 ml of oral suspension correspond to a single dose of 100 mg of the compound according to the invention.

The Rhodigel is suspended in ethanol the compound according to the invention is added to the suspension. The water is added while stirring. The mixture is stirred for about 6 h before swelling of the Rhodigel is complete.

500 mg of the compound according to the invention 2.5 g of polysorbate and 97 g of polyethylene glycol 400. 20 g of oral solution correspond to a single dose of 100 mg of the compound according to the invention.

The compound according to the invention is suspended in the mixture of polyethylene glycol and polysorbate with stirring. The stirring operation is continued until solution of the compound according to the invention is complete.

The compound according to the invention is dissolved in a concentration below the saturation solubility in a physiologically acceptable solvent e.g. isotonic saline solution glucose solution 5 and or PEG 400 solution 30 . The solution is subjected to sterile filtration and dispensed into sterile and pyrogen free injection vessels.

