---

title: Optical time domain reflectometer calibration standard
abstract: The invention is a fiber optic cable calibration standard in combination with a device for calibrating distance and attenuation parameters of an optical time domain reflectometer (OTDR). The calibration standard includes a fiber optic cable spool assembly and inspection apparatus. The invention is also a calibration method. An OTDR to be calibrated against a National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) standard.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09228922&OS=09228922&RS=09228922
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 09228922
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131031
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

The invention relates to optics measuring and testing. More particularly the invention relates to optical fiber cable measurement and inspection. The invention also relates to accessories for a fiber optic cable calibration standard. More particularly the invention relates to spools for fiber optic cables.

Optical time domain reflectometers OTDR are used to measure certain physical characteristics of fiber optic cables. The OTDR connects to only one end of a fiber optic cable. It sends a pulse of light into the fiber which then travels down its length. Some light energy in the pulse is scattered and reflected back through the fiber optic cable and to the OTDR. Certain physical characteristics of the fiber optic cable reflect more energy back than others. The end of a fiber segment reflects back much more energy called a Fresnel reflection than the molecular structure of the fiber optic cable itself Rayleigh scattering . The OTDR has an internal timer which measures the time elapsed between the sending of the pulse and any energy that is reflected and returned to the OTDR. If the speed of light in the fiber optic cable is known the physical distance measured from the connection to the OTDR to the point where the light was reflected is calculated by 

The speed of light in the fiber optic cable is dependent on the wavelength of the pulsed light. The relationship is given by 

Combining these equations gives the distance d in terms of the index of refraction n of the fiber and the measured round trip time t of the pulse of light in the fiber

A typical OTDR may include one or more pulsed light sources at one or more specific wavelengths. In order for the distance measurement of the OTDR to be meaningful the index of refraction of the fiber to be measured must be entered into the OTDR for the wavelength of the source used. With the index of refraction entered the OTDR makes a time based measurement and calculates the distance using the above equation.

In the art calibration of the OTDR is accomplished by using a sample spool of optical fiber of not well known length and not well known index of refraction. The sample spool has been characterized for time of flight or the time that a pulse of light of certain wavelength takes to travel through its length. The time of flight system is a time based measurement standard. Once the time of flight is known for the sample spool the OTDR is connected to it and a distance measurement is performed. The result of the OTDR distance measurement will not correspond well with the actual physical length of the sample fiber. However using the OTDR distance measurement and the index of refraction entered into the OTDR a time of flight calculation can be made that shows the elapsed time measured by the OTDR. This equation is given by

Thus the measured time of flight of the sample spool can be compared with the OTDR measured time of flight and the timing of the OTDR can be verified.

Commercially available fiber optic spools are 6 inch diameter with 9 inch diameter retaining plates on either side and a width of 4.5 inch or more. The spools are constructed so that both ends of the fiber are accessible for use which is important for time of flight measurements. However when several spools of this size are used for a set of calibration standards they take up a lot of space which proves impractical for laboratory bench top calibrations. Also commercially available spools are made of assembled pieces fastened together. This design increases the chance that the fiber spooled onto it will get stuck in the cracks between the assembled pieces. Sticking in cracks adversely affects the reflective parameters of measurement spools. Commercially available spools are also relatively large in size.

From a practical standpoint the verification of the OTDR timing can be difficult to interpret by the end user. The end user wants a distance measurement not a time measurement. The calibration of the OTDR gives an optical fiber length in units of time usually picoseconds whereas the end user would like to have length in meters or centimeters. Here to fore there has been no standard available that allows for a direct length comparison between the OTDR distance measurement and a fiber optic distance standard.

The invention is a fiber optic cable calibration standard apparatus in combination with a device for calibrating distance and attenuation parameters of an optical time domain reflectometer OTDR .

The apparatus of the invention includes a rack mountable enclosure including a front panel. The enclosure contains therein three fiber optic cable spool assemblies. Each assembly comprises a vertically elongated spindle attached to a horizontally disposed base plate. Fiber optic cable spools are rotatably mounted on each of the three spindles.

In the fiber optic cable spools each spool comprises a drum portion and a flange portion. The drum portion comprises a major drum having a major drum fiber optic cable receiving surface having a first diameter and a minor drum having a second diameter of lesser magnitude than the first diameter.

The flange portion comprises a first terminal flange spaced by the drum portion from a second terminal flange and an intermediate flange there between. Each flange in the flange portion extends radially outwardly from the drum portion. The first terminal flange has a first terminal flange fiber optic cable contact surface in contact with the major drum fiber optic cable receiving surface. The intermediate flange is positioned between the first terminal flange and the second terminal flange separating the major drum from the minor drum. The intermediate flange has an aperture there through directly adjacent the major drum fiber optic cable receiving surface. The aperture has a free area sufficient to pass a fiber optic cable length through the intermediate flange from the major drum fiber optic cable receiving surface to the minor drum. The intermediate flange has an intermediate flange fiber optic cable contact surface in contact with the major drum fiber optic cable receiving surface.

Each spool is made of a polymer material to form a single unitary body having smooth gap free fiber optic cable contact surfaces including between the first terminal flange fiber optic cable contact surface and the major drum fiber optic cable receiving surface and between the intermediate flange fiber optic contact surface and the major drum fiber optic cable receiving surface.

The first fiber optic cable spool assembly comprises a first set of fiber optic cable spools each spool storing a different predetermined length of single mode fiber optic cable.

The second fiber optic cable spool assembly comprises a second set of fiber optic cable spools each spool storing a different predetermined length of multi mode fiber optic cable.

The third fiber optic cable spool assembly comprises a third set of fiber optic cable spools. At least one spool stores a predetermined length of single mode fiber optic cable. And at least one spool stores a predetermined length of multi mode fiber optic cable.

Each fiber optic cable end is attached to a port on the front panel for access to the device for calibrating distance and attenuation parameters. A single mode variable optical attenuator and a multi mode variable optical attenuator are provided for attachment to a fiber optic cable. A display is provided for displaying parameters of fiber optic cables coupled to the ports.

The invention referred to herein as ADFOCS is a fiber optic cable calibration standard in combination with a device for calibrating distance and attenuation parameters of an optical time domain reflectometer OTDR . An attenuation and distance fiber optic cable calibration standard ADFOCS utilizes spooled fiber optic cable with a well known length and well known index of refraction assembled into a single rack mountable enclosure which also includes a visual inspection scope for inspecting fiber optic cable connectors for cleanliness. By use of the invention well known lengths of fiber optic cables are measured allowing for a direct comparison in units of length rather than time. From a practical standpoint this is the more desirable method of comparison.

Since OTDR measurements are no more accurate than the index of refraction entered the index of refraction for each of the spooled length of fiber optic cable is carefully characterized. This is done by measuring the time of flight through each length and applying the following formula 

Thus the index of refraction for wavelengths of interest is calculated. The OTDR to be calibrated is provided the well known index of refraction of the ADFOCS sample spooled fiber optic cable. When the length of the sample spooled cable is measured by the OTDR the result can be compared directly to the well known length. The tolerances and uncertainties can be defined in terms of length rather than time. The OTDR is best calibrated using at least three different lengths of fiber optic cable.

Fiber optic cable spools of the invention are mounted on a spindle to produce the spool assembly. Each spool is a single unitary body. The spool is configured to provide access to both ends of the spooled fiber optic cable making the spooled cable particularly useful for laboratory bench top calibrations. The spool design eliminates the fiber sticking in cracks between spool constituent parts. It also allows a relatively large length of fiber to be spooled on the major drum and fed through an aperture to the minor drum without crimping or catching the fiber in a crack. The spool size is also sufficiently compact for use in a rack mountable enclosure but not too small so that bending losses become significant. Bending fiber over too small a diameter causes losses in the fiber known as bending losses. Spool dimensions allow for mounting with standard commercially available optical bread boarding hardware.

Each spool in the spool assembly is made by machining a single piece of constituent material. Preferred materials of construction are polymers such as polyoxymethylene polymer. Polyoxymethylene polymer is available under trade names including Delrin Celcon Duracon and Hostaform . This polymer is used in applications requiring stiffness dimensional stability and a smooth surface. Spools of the invention are shaped from a single piece of polymer. The flanges and drums are machined on a lathe according to design dimensions. A spindle hole is drilled to a diameter Dto accommodate a spindle and has an axis as shown in and . The aperture in the intermediate flange between the major drum and minor drum is machined on a milling machine. By machining the spools from a single piece of polymer no gaps are present in the spool as there are no separate pieces that must be fit together. Polyoxymethylene polymer is relatively easy to machine and leaves a smooth surface. We have found that a smooth surface is necessary in order to avoid damaging the delicate cable during spooling. Alternate materials of construction include polymers with similar physical characteristics. Aluminum and aluminum alloys may also be used.

Spool dimensions are limited according to the invention to accommodate placing eight spools in the limited internal volume of a 5 U rack mountable enclosure i.e. 19 inches wide 8.75 inches high and 20 inches deep. The major drum must have a greater diameter than the minor drum so that a fiber optic cable F can be passed from the major drum to the minor drum through the aperture in the intermediate flange and wound thereon. Extending flange diameter allows the major drum to hold more fiber optic cable e.g. up to about 2500 meters of fiber optic cable. Maximum flange diameter is limited by the dimensions of the 5 U rack mountable enclosure. Minimum drum diameter is limited to twice the specified minimum bend radius specified for the fiber optic cable being spooled. The minimum drum diameter is typically 17 millimeter 0.7 inches . The dimensions were chosen to accommodate the lengths of fiber cable while remaining small enough to allow eight spools to fit inside the enclosure.

Given the physical limitations of a 5 U rack mountable enclosure recommended spool dimensions are quantified as follows.

Spools having these dimensions provide for the different lengths of fiber optic cable to be stored in a more compact space than was known here to for and facilitates bench top calibrations in the laboratory. The single piece spools have an aperture through which the fiber end is passed to be coiled around a minor drum and provide access to both ends of the fiber. In one embodiment spool diameter is 4 inches with a retaining flange diameter of 6 inches and a total width of 2 inches.

Single mode and multi mode fibers are wound on the spools. They are each wound by the same spooling method described herein. The ADFOCS includes both single mode and multi mode spools because some OTDRs have both multi mode and single mode capability and this eliminates the need for two separate boxes to calibrate a single OTDR instrument.

All of the features of the ADFOCS OTDR calibration standard are built into a single compact rack mountable enclosure. Mounting the enclosure in a rack protects the delicate spool wound fiber optic cable from damage that can be caused by normal movement. The unit holds 4 different lengths of multi mode fiber optic cable on spools and 4 different lengths of single mode fiber optic cable on spools. The unit is made to be able to be mounted in a standard 19 inch equipment rack and occupies 5 U of rack space i.e. 8.75 inches vertically and is 20 inches deep. This compact size allows it to be conveniently placed on a laboratory bench top or in an instrumentation rack.

The physical length of the fiber optic cable on each spool is carefully measured with a spooling machine which is equipped with a digital encoder with a length resolution of 1 centimeter cm as well as a tension meter. It is important that the fiber optic cable be spooled with near zero tension in order to prevent stretching of the fiber optic cable. The tension meter assures that the tension on the fiber optic cable is close to zero during the spooling process by providing real time tension measurements. Each fiber optic cable is re spooled at least 5 times so that the lengths can be averaged and a length uncertainty determined. The spooling machine allows for a length measurement repeatability of less than 5 centimeters cm at lengths up to 1000 meters m .

The spooling machine itself is calibrated using a sample fiber optic cable artifact. The sample fiber optic cable artifact has several marks along its length. The fiber optic cable is laid on a long flat surface and the distances between the marks are measured using a laser tracking device which is directly traceable to length standards at the National Institute of Standards and Technology and has length measurement uncertainties of less than 0.1 millimeter mm . This fiber optic cable artifact is put into the spooling machine and the distance to each of the marks is compared to the spooling machine reading. Thus a correction factor is created for the spooling machine and applied to the spooled lengths of fiber optic cable used in the ADFOCS standard. The ADFOCS standard uses four spools of fiber optic cable of different lengths ranging from a few tens of meters to a few thousand meters depending on the application. One example of lengths in the ADFOCS is lengths of 80 meters 210 meters 505 meters and 1060 meters. The lengths are chosen based on the application so that they may be combined without causing confusion due to ghosting. Ghosting is the repetition of a signal at integer multiples of a given length. Therefore none of the four lengths are close to integer multiples of another length.

A distinction is made between the physical length and optical length of a fiber optic cable. Physical length is measured against a length standard. Optical length is measured against a time of travel of light. These two types of length are not equivalent even though for applications requiring less precision they are sometimes used interchangeably or in the alternative referred to as the fiber optic cable length. Some applications use lengths of fiber optic cable where the physical length is known within 10 or even 1 . These lengths are known physical lengths. For purposes of describing the invention physical length accuracy of 0.005 is referred to as accurately known physical length.

The index of refraction for a fiber optic cable is generally known with a precision of 3 decimal places i.e. 0.001. Some manufacturers also indicate on the cable spool that the fiber optic cable index of refraction measurement is accurate within 0.0001. However the index of refraction printed on the spool is an average index of refraction reported for the whole spooled fiber optic cable length since the instantaneous index of refraction varies along the length of all fiber optic cables due to imperfections in manufacturing. Shorter lengths of fiber optic cable taken from the longer spool will demonstrate a slightly different index of refraction from the average of the longer supply spool. Therefore the index of refraction of a cable segment may differ from the average of the supply spool from which it was taken. The ADFOCS spools are each individually characterized for index of refraction after they are taken from the supply spool with a precision of 0.00001 or 10 ppm. This accuracy is achieved by time of flight measurements with an uncertainty of 50 ps pico seconds 10seconds or less.

Many manufacturers create calibration fiber optic cable spools by measuring their lengths using an OTDR. The OTDR measured lengths are then used to calibrate other OTDRs. This method for determining the length of a fiber optic cable is not acceptable for applications requiring high accuracy. The ADFOCS fiber optic cables have both physical length and index of refraction measured by measurement instruments with measurement traceability to a national or intrinsic standard. The physical length was measured using the spooling machine which in turn was calibrated against a laser tracker with sub millimeter accuracy which was calibrated against length standards derived from the national length standards at the National Institute of Standards and Technology NIST . The index of refraction was calculated from the time of flight measurements which were made on a time of flight system whose accuracy is tied to a rubidium time standard. This is a national time standard. Rubidium is an intrinsic time standard. Therefore the spooled fiber optic cable characteristics were measured independently from any OTDR thus distinguishing it from other spools commonly used in practice.

The spooling machine is a modified UniSpooler machine available from Showmark LLC Exton Pa. 19341. The UniSpooler machine is modified by adding an adjustable mechanical damper placed on the feed spool axle a tension meter that displays real time tension in the spooled fiber and spooling speed indicator.

The invention also provides for attenuation and scattering loss calibration measurements. Attenuation measurements are the result of Fresnel reflections at certain points along the length of the fiber optic cable. Since Fresnel reflections reflect larger amounts of energy there is a decrease in forward moving energy. The amount of energy lost in the reflection is the attenuation at that point. The invention includes a segment of fiber optic cable with a variable optical attenuator VOA attached in series. The unit also contains a multi mode VOA MMVOA and a single mode VOA SMVOA each coupled to a corresponding one of the fiber optic cable spools. The multi mode fiber optic cables are characterized for the index of refraction at wavelengths of 850 nanometers nm and 1300 nanometers nm . The single mode fiber optic cables are characterized for index of refraction at wavelengths of 1310 nanometers nm and 1550 nanometers nm .

The VOA attenuation can be adjusted to a known loss and the OTDR measurement can be compared against the known loss value. Scattering loss is due to Rayleigh scattering all along the length of the fiber optic cable. For measurement purposes scattering loss does not exist at any particular point but rather it is a measure of the energy loss per unit length along the length of the fiber optic cable. The spools of fiber optic cable in the ADFOCS have been characterized for scattering loss so that the OTDR measurements can be compared with the known ADFOCS quantities.

The VOAs used in the ADFOCS are selected among other reasons because of their very small form factor. However this small form factor does not allow for a built in user interface on the VOA. The VOA attenuation is set by sending and receiving serial communications commands to and from the VOA. In order to retain the single unit approach to the ADFOCS a built in VOA controller is utilized. The controller provides a graphical user interface GUI whereby the user can control the VOA set points. The controller is a very small embedded Linux processor with software. The software includes the GUI for the VOA as well as provides a convenient place to display the fiber optic characteristics of the spooled fiber.

Embedded controller connects to com port A and com port B used by multi mode VOA and single mode VOA respectively. The term com port is understood to refer to a serial port. Commands are entered to the controller via key pad matrix . Results of measurements and the like are displayed on LCD screen .

A total of eight fiber optic cable spools A H are connected to the I O ports and VOAs. schematically shows the relationship between the eight fiber optic cable spools and the three pairs of multi mode ports A C and three pairs of single mode ports A C.

Also shown in are connectors A and B connecting spools D F and spools C E respectively. The connectors typically have a loss between 1.0 and 1.5 dB which the OTDR uses to detect the fact that a connection exists so that the two connected spools can be connected to a single input output port. In a typical embodiment the three single mode spools and the three multi mode spools have fiber optic cable lengths of 1000 meters 500 meters and 210 meters respectively. However the lengths do not always have to be the same for each embodiment. For example in another embodiment the lengths are 2000 meters 700 meters and 250 meters. The important thing is that the two fiber lengths that are connected together the 700 meters and 250 meters spools or the 500 meters and 210 meters spools are not integer multiples. The three lengths are selected to cover the distance range that the OTDRs are being used to measure. When the OTDR is connected to the 500 meter side the OTDR will see the 500 meter length then a blip will appear where the connector exists and then it will show the remaining 210 meters of fiber. Both the 500 meter and 210 meter lengths can be tested this way. As a form of secondary validation the OTDR is connected to the 210 meter side. The OTDR being calibrated will see the 210 meter spool then a blip at the connector then the 500 meter spool. The two measurements are compared thereby allowing a comparison of the same length of fiber optic cable at two different places in the fiber optic cable network.

The ADFOCS includes an attenuation calibration capability for OTDRs. This attenuation calibration is enabled by the variable optical attenuators VOA both multi mode and single mode. OTDR designs vary and some require an extra length of fiber after the attenuator to make the attenuation measurement. For this reason an 80 meter spool of fiber optic cable G or H is attached to one end of each VOA. Other OTDRs need the length of fiber before the attenuator. For this reason both ends of the fiber VOA path are available on the front panel through ports A and A.

The VOAs are commercially available devices Oz Optics Ltd. DD 100 models . However they require computer control using RS 232 serial communications. The ADFOCS was designed with an embedded Linux micro controller that eliminates the need for an external computer to control the VOAs. shows that the embedded Linux controller connected to the COM RS 232 communications ports of the VOA. The VOA also requires 5 volts DC for its internal logic circuitry and 9 volts DC for its internal stepper motor. The embedded Linux controller also requires the same 5 volts DC. The embedded Linux controller has a user interface which is shown on LCD screen mounted to the front panel FP. The user controls the ADFOCS functions with keypad matrix also mounted to the front panel. The embedded Linux controller also displays the characteristics of the fiber spools index of refraction spooled lengths calibrated wavelengths which are needed for reference during the distance calibration of the OTDR.

The VOA software also implements a calibration file for more accurate control of the VOA attenuation set points. The VOA functions are controlled through the keypad on the front panel FP and its status is displayed on the LCD display connected to the controller . is a flowchart showing an implementation of the VOA control via software. Initialization loads VOA correction files and fiber spool data files. These two files contain data for setting the VOA to a calibrated attenuation level and the characterized values of length and index of refraction for the spooled fiber optic cables. The status is displayed on LCD display . The software remains in an idle state until a user command is entered which is then parsed . Details regarding idle states and parsing commands are well known in the art. The command entered is determined to be a VOA or Fiber command. If Fiber a data file is selected meaning a text file stored in the microcontroller that has measurement calibration data for the VOA. If a VOA command is entered if it is a VOA set point command the VOA correction file is used to fix the set point . Otherwise a VOA native command is constructed meaning a sequence of ASCII based bytes that the VOA recognizes as a valid operational command. The VOA native command is sent and used to read VOA status . That is the microcontroller will check the status of completion of the last command by sending a native command query through the COM port and will not allow further commands until the VOA command is completed and the VOA query indicates that the VOA is ready to receive another command. Then if the VOA is ready its status is displayed on LCD . If the VOA is not ready the software loops back to read VOA status again. This loop repeats until the VOA is ready.

An extremely important aspect of making fiber optic measurements is fiber connector cleanliness. Several millions of dollars are spent annually on repairs and maintenance due to improperly cleaned fiber connectors. Even the smallest amount of debris on a fiber connector end face can drastically impair fiber optic measurements. Compliance with this requirement is difficult to obtain in practice. To provide an easier and more convenient solution which enhances compliance the invention incorporates two types of fiber optic visual inspection scopes FOVIS built into the front panel of the unit. This is very different from other systems because the inspection scopes are always completely separate separately powered and therefore seldom used. An internal fiber optic microscope allows the user to insert the fiber connector into the scope to check for cleanliness before connecting to the spools of the ADFOCS. The built in fiber end face inspection system includes a LCD monitor . This inspection system is powered when the unit is powered. The scope input is located right next to the ADFOCS ports so it is very easy and practical to inspect the fiber connectors before connecting to the ports.

The internal FOVIS uses a 400 magnification and CCD and displays the fiber connector end on the built in LCD monitor . An external FOVIS connects to the front panel of the ADFOCS with a built in connector that provides power to the external FOVIS and a signal line which can be switched to the built in monitor. This built in approach provides the ability to make connections to the ADFOCS and check for cleanliness all at the same point namely at the front of the unit. This approach eliminates the reasons for failure to clean the connectors which is typically done off to one side of the laboratory bench. There is no inconvenient moving of cables and equipment to the cleaning area and then back to the calibration standard every time a cable is connected to the front panel. With a built in inspection design the cleaning can be performed without moving cables and equipment to another area. This provides the user the ability to save substantially on maintenance and repair costs.

The ADFOCS is used to calibrate the OTDR by connecting the OTDR to the input output ports A C or A C using a simple fiber optic patch cable not part of the ADFOCS . There are three different input output port types corresponding to the three different lengths of spooled fiber connected to each port. There is a long length spool medium length spool and short length spool. For each of these spool lengths there is a multi mode spool and a single mode spool making a total of six fiber spools for distance calibrations. Multi mode OTDRs are calibrated using only use the multi mode spools. Single mode OTDRs are calibrated using only the single mode spools.

In this manner it is possible to calibrate an OTDR by connecting an OTDR to be calibrated to an input port of a calibration device having a known length and index of refraction of fiber optic cable. An index of refraction for an OTDR wavelength of the OTDR to be calibrated is entered into the OTDR. Then the calibration device is used to calibrate the OTDR by comparing a display of the known length of the fiber optic cable with a length as displayed by the OTDR. The calibration device included three single piece spools each for storing different predetermined lengths of single mode fiber optic cable three single piece spools each for storing different predetermined lengths of multi mode fiber optic cable. Two single piece spools each store a predetermined length of single mode fiber optic cable and multi mode fiber optic cable respectively. Input ports couple ends of single mode fiber optic cables and ends of multi mode fiber optic cables stored on corresponding spools. Output ports each couple to a second end of one of the single mode fiber optic cables and a second end of one of the multi mode fiber optic cables. A single mode variable optical attenuator is coupled to one end of a single mode optical cable. A multi mode variable optical attenuator is coupled to one end of a multi mode optical cable. Additional output ports are coupled to the single mode variable optical attenuator and multi mode variable optical attenuator. A display displays parameters of fiber optic cables plugged into the input and output ports which are used to calibrate the OTDR.

Although specific details are provided regarding the implementation of a suitable calibration device such specific details should not be construed as limiting the invention other than as provided in the following claims.

