---

title: Methods of storing information using nucleic acids
abstract: The present invention relates to methods of storing data using one or more nucleic acids including converting a format of information into a plurality of bit sequences of a bit stream with each having a corresponding bit barcode, converting the plurality of bit sequences to a plurality of corresponding oligonucleotide sequences using one bit per base encoding, synthesizing the plurality of corresponding oligonucleotide sequences, and storing the synthesized plurality of corresponding oligonucleotide sequences.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09384320&OS=09384320&RS=09384320
owner: President and Fellows of Harvard College
number: 09384320
owner_city: Cambridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130717
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 673 690 filed on Jul. 19 2012 and U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 676 081 filed on Jul. 26 2012 each of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety for all purposes.

This invention was made with government support under US Office of Naval Research N000141010144. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates in general to methods of storing information using one or more nucleic acid sequences.

1. Our digital universe is growing rapidly. For example 1.8 zettabytes 10 of information was created and replicated in 2011 and that amount is doubling every two years See 1. Extracting Value from Chaos IDC Framingham Mass. 2011 world wide web site emc.com collateral analyst reports idc extracting value from chaos ar.pdf. Archival data storage is often in the form of hard drives optical media and magnetic tapes which offer recommended lifetimes of 5 30 years See 2. J. Rothenberg Scientific American 272 42 47 1995 . As digital information continues to accumulate higher density and longer term storage solutions are necessary. DNA has many potential advantages as a medium for information storage See 3. C. Bancroft T. Bowler B. Bloom C. T. Clelland Science 293 1763 1765 2001 . The first instance of encoding general digital information into DNA was 35 bits in 1988 See 7. J. Davis Art Journal 55 70 74 1996 . Recent work deals with compression and encryption of data into DNA usually limited to uppercase letters and its viability in living cells See 3 8 and 9. C. Bancroft T. Bowler B. Bloom C. T. Clelland Science 293 1763 1765 2001 C. Gustafsson 458 703 2009 and D. G. Gibson et al. 329 52 56 2010 .

Embodiments of the present disclosure are directed to methods of using a nucleic acid sequence or sequences including nucleotides as a medium for information storage. Common nucleotides include A C G and T. Aspects of the present disclosure are directed to methods of robust large scale reading and writing of digital information using next generation sequencing and synthesis technologies an example of such a method is provided in schematic in . According to one aspect text and or images is converted to megabits. According to one aspect text and or images converted to megabits comprise a bit stream. The megabits are then encoded into oligonucleotides. According to one aspect the oligonucleotide includes a data block sequence. According to one aspect the oligonucleotide includes an address sequence such as a barcode sequence specifying the location of the data block in the bit stream. According to one aspect the oligonucleotide includes flanking common sequences at each end of the oligonucleotide for amplification and sequencing. According to one aspect the oligonucleotide includes one or more or all of a data block sequence an address sequence such as a barcode sequence specifying the location of the data block in the bit stream and flanking common sequences at each end of the oligonucleotide for amplification and sequencing.

According to one aspect of the present disclosure one bit per base is encoded. According to this aspect a single message may be encoded in a plurality of ways i.e. A or C for zero G or T for the number 1. Accordingly this aspect of the present disclosure avoids sequence features that are difficult to read or write such as extreme GC content repeats or secondary structure.

According to one aspect the bit stream is divided into addressed data blocks. According to this aspect long DNA constructs that are difficult to assemble may be avoided.

According to one aspect many copies of each individual oligonucleotide are synthesized stored and sequenced. Since errors in synthesis and sequencing are rarely coincident each molecular copy corrects errors in the other copies.

According to one aspect the process is carried out in vitro. According to this aspect the in vitro approach avoids cloning and stability issues of in vivo approaches.

According to one aspect high throughput next generation techniques are used in both DNA synthesis and sequencing to allow for encoding and decoding of large amounts of information.

According to one aspect a method of storing information using nucleotides is provided comprising converting a format of information into a plurality of bit sequences of a bit stream with each having a corresponding bit barcode converting the plurality of bit sequences to a plurality of corresponding oligonucleotide sequences using one bit per base encoding synthesizing the plurality of corresponding oligonucleotide sequences and storing the synthesized plurality of corresponding oligonucleotide sequences. According to one aspect the oligonucleotide sequences include one or more or all of a data block sequence an address sequence specifying the location of the data block in the bit stream or flanking common sequences at each end of the oligonucleotide for amplification and sequencing.

According to one aspect a method of retrieving a format of information from a plurality of synthesized oligonucleotide sequences encoding bit sequences of the format of information is provided comprising amplifying the plurality of oligonucleotide sequences sequencing the amplified oligonucleotide sequences converting the oligonucleotide sequences to bit sequences and converting the bit sequences to the format of information. According to one aspect the oligonucleotide sequences include one or more or all of a data block sequence an address sequence specifying the location of the data block in the bit stream or flanking common sequences at each end of the oligonucleotide for amplification and sequencing.

According to one aspect a method of accessing a format of information from a plurality of synthesized oligonucleotide sequences encoding bit sequences of the format of information is provided comprising amplifying the plurality of oligonucleotide sequences sequencing the amplified oligonucleotide sequences converting the oligonucleotide sequences to bit sequences converting the bit sequences to the format of information and visualizing the format of information. According to one aspect the oligonucleotide sequences include one or more or all of a data block sequence an address sequence specifying the location of the data block in the bit stream or flanking common sequences at each end of the oligonucleotide for amplification and sequencing.

According to one aspect a method of storing information using nucleotides is provided comprising converting a format of information to a bit stream encoding bit sequences into corresponding oligonucleotide sequences synthesizing the oligonucleotide sequences sequencing the oligonucleotide sequences decoding the oligonucleotide sequences into bit sequences assembling the bit sequences into a bit stream and converting the bit stream into the format of information. According to one aspect the oligonucleotide sequences include one or more or all of a data block sequence an address sequence specifying the location of the data block in the bit stream or flanking common sequences at each end of the oligonucleotide for amplification and sequencing.

A method of storing information using nucleotides is provided comprising converting a first format of information to a first bit stream encoding first bit sequences into corresponding oligonucleotide sequences synthesizing the oligonucleotide sequences sequencing the oligonucleotide sequences decoding the oligonucleotide sequences into second bit sequences assembling the second bit sequences into a second bit stream and converting the second bit stream into a second format of information. According to one aspect the oligonucleotide sequences include one or more or all of a data block sequence an address sequence specifying the location of the data block in the bit stream or flanking common sequences at each end of the oligonucleotide for amplification and sequencing.

According to certain aspects information is stored using DNA taking advantage of the DNA density. According to certain aspects at theoretical maximum DNA can encode 2 bits per nucleotide nt or 1.8 zettabytes in about 4 grams of the sodium salt See 4. Information on materials and methods is available on Science Online. According to certain aspects a milligram of DNA is achievable with commercial oligo sizes and sequencing technologies known to those of skill in the art 48 bit barcode 128 bit payload and for 100 coverage a petabyte 10 is achievable. This amount could be stored in a 1536 well plate to provide an exabyte with a thousand of those 0.5 m a side cube making a zettabyte 8 10bits . Subsets of the stored data can be stored in a mixture and retrieved separately by using orthogonal i.e. minimally cross priming flanking primers. See Church G M Kieffer Higgins S 1988 Multiplex Sequencing and Kosuri S Eroshenko N LeProust E Super M Way J Li J B Church G M 2010 A Scalable Gene Synthesis Platform Using High Fidelity DNA Microchips. Nature Biotech. 28 12 1295 9.

According to certain aspects DNA does not require a planar surface for storage is easily preserved and has been recovered after millennia See 5 and 6. 5. J. Bonnet et al. Nucleic Acids Research 38 1531 1546 2010 and 6. S. P bo et al. M. A. Uyterlinde et al. Eds. Annual Review of Genetics 38 645 679 2004 . According to certain aspects DNA s essential biological role provides access to natural reading and writing enzymes and ensures that DNA will remain a readable standard for the foreseeable future.

The present invention is directed to methods of storing information using oligomers. Such oligomers can be formed from monomers. Exemplary monomers include nucleotides. Exemplary oligomers include oligonucleotides. According to one aspect a method of encoding information is provided where a sequence of bits are converted to a sequence of nucleotides where the sequence of nucleotides is an oligonucleotide. According to one aspect commercially available methods of nucleic acid synthesis are used. According to one aspect commercially available methods of nucleic acid amplification are used. According to one aspect commercially available methods of nucleic acid sequencing are used.

According to one aspect a portion or portions of a format of information such as an html format of information such as an html book with text and or images is converted to bits i.e. zeros and ones and a bit barcode is added to form a bit sequence i.e. a series of zeros and ones as commonly understood. Other formats of information that can be converted to bits are known to those of skill in the art. According to one aspect the portion of an html format of information to be converted into bits may be referred to as a byte portion. The bit barcode can determine the location of the encoded bits within the overall html format of information. The bit sequence is then converted encoded to a sequence of nucleotides i.e. an oligonucleotide or DNA using a 1 bit per base encoding ac 0 TG 1 to form a corresponding encoded oligonucleotide sequence i.e. the oligonucleotide sequence corresponds to or encodes for the bit sequence. According to one aspect 4 or more nucleotide repeats are avoided and GC content is balanced. A plurality of bit sequences are created corresponding to a portion of or the entire html format of information. Accordingly a plurality of corresponding encoded oligonucleotide sequences are created which together may be referred to as a library. The library of encoded oligonucleotide sequences represents the html format of information. The encoded oligonucleotide sequences are then synthesized using methods known to those of skill in the art such as using a DNA microchip. The synthesized oligonucleotides are then amplified using methods known to those of skill in the art to form a library of oligonucleotides. The library of oligonucleotides is then sequenced using methods known to those of skill in the art such as next generation sequencing methods. The sequenced oligonucleotides are then converted into bit sequences corresponding to the html format of information. The bit sequences can be converted to the format of information using methods known to those of skill in the art. The format of information can be visualized or displayed using methods and devices known to those of skill in the art.

Terms and symbols of nucleic acid chemistry biochemistry genetics and molecular biology used herein follow those of standard treatises and texts in the field e.g. Komberg and Baker Second Edition W.H. Freeman New York 1992 Lehninger Second Edition Worth Publishers New York 1975 Strachan and Read Second Edition Wiley Liss New York 1999 Eckstein editor Oxford University Press New York 1991 Gait editor IRL Press Oxford 1984 and the like.

As used herein the term bit is to be understood according to its common meaning to one of skill in the art. The term bit may be a contraction of binary digit and may refer to a basic capacity of information in computing and telecommunications. A bit represents either 1 or 0 one or zero only. The representation may be implemented in a variety of systems by means of a two state device.

As used herein the terms nucleic acid molecule nucleic acid sequence nucleic acid fragment and oligomer are used interchangeably and are intended to include but are not limited to a polymeric form of nucleotides that may have various lengths including either deoxyribonucleotides or ribonucleotides or analogs thereof. Oligomers for use in the present invention can be fully designed partially designed i.e. partially randomized or fully randomized. In certain aspects of the invention a pool of nucleic acids contains single stranded 90 mers of DNA.

In general amplifying includes the production of copies of a nucleic acid molecule via repeated rounds of primed enzymatic synthesis. In situ amplification indicated that the amplification takes place with the template nucleic acid molecule positioned on a support or a bead rather than in solution. In situ amplification methods are described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 432 360.

Varied choices of polymerases exist with different properties such as temperature strand displacement and proof reading. Amplification can be isothermal as described above and in similar adaptation such as multiple displacement amplification MDA described by Dean et al. Comprehensive human genome amplification using multiple displacement amplification . vol. 99 p. 5261 5266. 2002 also Dean et al. Rapid amplification of plasmid and phage DNA using phi29 DNA polymerase and multiply primed rolling circle amplification . vol. 11 p. 1095 1099. 2001 also Aviel Ronen et al. Large fragment Bst DNA polymerase for whole genome amplification of DNA formalin fixed paraffin embedded tissues vol. 7 p. 312. 2006. Amplification can also cycle through different temperature regiments such as the traditional polymerase chain reaction PCR popularized by Mullis et al. Specific enzymatic amplification of DNA in vitro The polymerase chain reaction. . vole 51 p. 263 273. 1986. Variations more applicable to genome amplification are described by Zhang et al. Whole genome amplification from a single cell implications for genetic analysis . vol. 89 p. 5847 5851. 1992 and Telenius et al. Degenerate oligonucleotide primed PCR general amplification of target DNA by a single degenerate primer Genomics vol. 13 p. 718 725. 1992. Other methods include Polony PCR described by Mitra and Church In situ localized amplification and contact replication of many individual DNA molecules . vole 27 pages e34. 1999 emulsion PCR ePCR described by Shendure et al. Accurate multiplex polony sequencing of an evolved bacterial genome vol. 309 p. 1728 32. 2005 and Williams et al. Amplification of complex gene libraries by emulsion PCR vol. 3 p. 545 550. 2006. Any amplification method can be combined with a reverse transcription step a priori to allow amplification of RNA. According to certain aspects amplification is not absolutely required since probes reporters and detection systems with sufficient sensitivity can be used to allow detection of a single molecule using template non hybridizing nucleic acid structures described. Ways to adapt sensitivity in a system include choices of excitation sources e.g. illumination and detection e.g. photodetector photomultipliers . Ways to adapt signal level include probes allowing stacking of reporters and high intensity reporters e.g. quantum dots can also be used.

Amplification methods useful in the present disclosure may comprise contacting a nucleic acid with one or more primers that specifically hybridize to the nucleic acid under conditions that facilitate hybridization and chain extension. Exemplary methods for amplifying nucleic acids include the polymerase chain reaction PCR see e.g. Mullis et al. 1986 . 51 Pt 1 263 and Cleary et al. 2004 1 241 and U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 683 195 and 4 683 202 anchor PCR RACE PCR ligation chain reaction LCR see e.g. Landegran et al. 1988 241 1077 1080 and Nakazawa et al. 1994 . 91 360 364 self sustained sequence replication Guatelli et al. 1990 . 87 1874 transcriptional amplification system Kwoh et al. 1989 86 1173 Q B eta Replicase Lizardi et al. 1988 6 1197 recursive PCR Jaffe et al. 2000 J. Biol. Chem. 275 2619 and Williams et al. 2002 277 7790 the amplification methods described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 391 544 6 365 375 6 294 323 6 261 797 6 124 090 and 5 612 199 or any other nucleic acid amplification method using techniques well known to those of skill in the art. In exemplary embodiments the methods disclosed herein utilize PCR amplification.

In certain exemplary embodiments methods for amplifying nucleic acid sequences are provided. Exemplary methods for amplifying nucleic acids include the polymerase chain reaction PCR see e.g. Mullis et al. 1986 51 Pt 1 263 and Cleary et al. 2004 1 241 and U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 683 195 and 4 683 202 anchor PCR RACE PCR ligation chain reaction LCR see e.g. Landegran et al. 1988 241 1077 1080 and Nakazawa et al. 1994 91 360 364 self sustained sequence replication Guatelli et al. 1990 87 1874 transcriptional amplification system Kwoh et al. 1989 86 1173 Q Beta Replicase Lizardi et al. 1988 6 1197 recursive PCR Jaffe et al. 2000 275 2619 and Williams et al. 2002 277 7790 the amplification methods described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 391 544 6 365 375 6 294 323 6 261 797 6 124 090 and 5 612 199 isothermal amplification e.g. rolling circle amplification RCA hyperbranched rolling circle amplification HRCA strand displacement amplification SDA helicase dependent amplification HDA PWGA or any other nucleic acid amplification method using techniques well known to those of skill in the art.

 Polymerase chain reaction or PCR refers to a reaction for the in vitro amplification of specific DNA sequences by the simultaneous primer extension of complementary strands of DNA. In other words PCR is a reaction for making multiple copies or replicates of a target nucleic acid flanked by primer binding sites such reaction comprising one or more repetitions of the following steps i denaturing the target nucleic acid ii annealing primers to the primer binding sites and iii extending the primers by a nucleic acid polymerase in the presence of nucleoside triphosphates. Usually the reaction is cycled through different temperatures optimized for each step in a thermal cycler instrument. Particular temperatures durations at each step and rates of change between steps depend on many factors well known to those of ordinary skill in the art e.g. exemplified by the references McPherson et al. editors 2 IRL Press Oxford 1991 and 1995 respectively . For example in a conventional PCR using Taq DNA polymerase a double stranded target nucleic acid may be denatured at a temperature greater than 90 C. primers annealed at a temperature in the range 50 75 C. and primers extended at a temperature in the range 68 78 C.

The term PCR encompasses derivative forms of the reaction including but not limited to RT PCR real time PCR nested PCR quantitative PCR multiplexed PCR assembly PCR and the like. Reaction volumes range from a few hundred nanoliters e.g. 200 nL to a few hundred microliters e.g. 200 L. Reverse transcription PCR or RT PCR means a PCR that is preceded by a reverse transcription reaction that converts a target RNA to a complementary single stranded DNA which is then amplified e.g. Tecott et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 168 038. Real time PCR means a PCR for which the amount of reaction product i.e. amplicon is monitored as the reaction proceeds. There are many forms of real time PCR that differ mainly in the detection chemistries used for monitoring the reaction product e.g. Gelfand et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 210 015 Taqman Wittwer et al. U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 174 670 and 6 569 627 intercalating dyes Tyagi et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 925 517 molecular beacons . Detection chemistries for real time PCR are reviewed in Mackay et al. 30 1292 1305 2002 . Nested PCR means a two stage PCR wherein the amplicon of a first PCR becomes the sample for a second PCR using a new set of primers at least one of which binds to an interior location of the first amplicon. As used herein initial primers in reference to a nested amplification reaction mean the primers used to generate a first amplicon and secondary primers mean the one or more primers used to generate a second or nested amplicon. Multiplexed PCR means a PCR wherein multiple target sequences or a single target sequence and one or more reference sequences are simultaneously carried out in the same reaction mixture e.g. Bernard et al. 1999 273 221 228 two color real time PCR . Usually distinct sets of primers are employed for each sequence being amplified. Quantitative PCR means a PCR designed to measure the abundance of one or more specific target sequences in a sample or specimen. Techniques for quantitative PCR are well known to those of ordinary skill in the art as exemplified in the following references Freeman et al. 26 112 126 1999 Becker Andre et al. 17 9437 9447 1989 Zimmerman et al. 21 268 279 1996 Diviacco et al. 122 3013 3020 1992 Becker Andre et al. 17 9437 9446 1989 and the like.

Sequencing methods useful in the present disclosure include Shendure et al. Accurate multiplex polony sequencing of an evolved bacterial genome vol. 309 p. 1728 32. 2005 Drmanac et al. Human genome sequencing using unchained base reads on self assembling DNA nanoarrays vol. 327 p. 78 81. 2009 McKernan et al. Sequence and structural variation in a human genome uncovered by short read massively parallel ligation sequencing using two base encoding . vol. 19 p. 1527 41. 2009 Rodrigue et al. Unlocking short read sequencing for metagenomics vol. 28 e11840. 2010 Rothberg et al. An integrated semiconductor device enabling non optical genome sequencing vol. 475 p. 348 352. 2011 Margulies et al. Genome sequencing in microfabricated high density picoliter reactors vol. 437 p. 376 380. 2005 Rasko et al. Origins of the strain causing an outbreak of hemolytic uremic syndrome in Germany . Epub. 2011 Hutter et al. Labeled nucleoside triphosphates with reversibly terminating aminoalkoxyl groups . vol. 92 p. 879 895. 2010 Seo et al. Four color DNA sequencing by synthesis on a chip using photocleavable fluorescent nucleotides . Vol. 102 P. 5926 5931 2005 Olejnik et al. Photocleavable biotin derivatives a versatile approach for the isolation of biomolecules . vol. 92 p. 7590 7594. 1995 U.S. Pat. No. 5 750 341 US 2009 0062129 and US 2009 0191553.

In general the terms nucleic acid molecule nucleic acid sequence nucleic acid fragment oligonucleotide and polynucleotide are used interchangeably and are intended to include but not limited to a polymeric form of nucleotides that may have various lengths either deoxyribonucleotides DNA or ribonucleotides RNA or analogs thereof. A oligonucleotide is typically composed of a specific sequence of four nucleotide bases adenine A cytosine C guanine G and thymine T uracil U for thymine T when the polynucleotide is RNA . Thus the term oligonucleotide sequence is the alphabetical representation of a polynucleotide molecule alternatively the term may be applied to the polynucleotide molecule itself. This alphabetical representation can be input into databases in a computer having a central processing unit and used for bioinformatics applications such as functional genomics and homology searching. Oligonucleotides may optionally include one or more non standard nucleotide s nucleotide analog s and or modified nucleotides.

Embodiments of the present disclosure include naturally occurring or synthetic oligomers known to those of skill in the art. Such oligomers include oligonucleotides or polynucleotides such as DNA or RNA polypeptides like collagen and vancomycin polyketides like fats and tetracycline polysaccharides like cellulose and starch polyterpenes like cholesterol and rubber polyamino acids like lignin and polyalkaloids polypyrroles like heme and vitamin B12 and polyesters like PHA PHV . Oligomers include those having bio inspired classes of bonds. See table 1 of US2008 0096253. Additional oligomers include non biological polymers such as linear polymers including polysiloxanes polyacrylamides and the like. Such oligomers may have sufficient thermal stability or ease of detection in nanopores or other polymer sequencing devices.

Examples of modified nucleotides include but are not limited to diaminopurine ST 5 fluorouracil 5 bromouracil 5 chlorouracil 5 iodouracil hypoxanthine xantine 4 acetylcytosine 5 carboxyhydroxylmethyl uracil 5 carboxymethylaminomethyl 2 thiouridine 5 carboxymethylaminomethyluracil dihydrouracil beta D galactosylqueosine inosine N6 isopentenyladenine 1 methylguanine 1 methylinosine 2 2 dimethylguanine 2 methyladenine 2 methylguanine 3 methylcytosine 5 methylcytosine N6 adenine 7 methylguanine 5 methylaminomethyluracil 5 methoxyaminomethyl 2 thiouracil beta D mannosylqueosine 5 methoxycarboxymethyluracil 5 methoxyuracil 2 methylthio D46 isopentenyladenine uracil 5 oxyacetic acid v wybutoxosine pseudouracil queosine 2 thiocytosine 5 methyl 2 thiouracil 2 thiouracil 4 thiouracil 5 methyluracil uracil 5 oxyacetic acid methylester uracil 5 oxyacetic acid v 5 methyl 2 thiouracil 3 3 amino 3 N 2 carboxypropyl uracil acp3 w 2 6 diaminopurine and the like. Nucleic acid molecules may also be modified at the base moiety e.g. at one or more atoms that typically are available to form a hydrogen bond with a complementary nucleotide and or at one or more atoms that are not typically capable of forming a hydrogen bond with a complementary nucleotide sugar moiety or phosphate backbone. Nucleic acid molecules may also contain amine modified groups such as aminoallyl dUTP aa dUTP and aminohexhylacrylamide dCTP aha dCTP to allow covalent attachment of amine reactive moieties such as N hydroxy succinimide esters NHS .

Alternatives to standard DNA base pairs or RNA base pairs in the oligonucleotides of the present disclosure can provide higher density in bits per cubic mm higher safety resistant to accidental or purposeful synthesis of natural toxins easier discrimination in photo programmed polymerases or lower secondary structure. Such alternative base pairs compatible with natural and mutant polymerases for de novo and or amplification synthesis are described in Betz K Malyshev D A Lavergne T Welte W Diederichs K Dwyer T J Ordoukhanian P Romesberg F E Marx A 2012 KlenTaq polymerase replicates unnatural base pairs by inducing a Watson Crick geometry Nature Chem. Biol. 8 612 614 Seo Y J Malyshev D A Lavergne T Ordoukhanian P Romesberg F E. J Am Chem Soc. 2011 Dec. 14 133 49 19878 88 Site specific labeling of DNA and RNA using an efficiently replicated and transcribed class of unnatural base pairs Switzer C Y Moroney S E Benner S A. 1993 Biochemistry. 32 39 10489 96. Enzymatic recognition of the base pair between isocytidine and isoguanosine Yamashige R Kimoto M Takezawa Y Sato A Mitsui T Yokoyama S Hirao I. Nucleic Acids Res. 2012 March 40 6 2793 806. Highly specific unnatural base pair systems as a third base pair for PCR amplification and Yang Z Chen F Alvarado J B Benner S A. J Am Chem Soc. 2011 September 28 133 38 15105 12 Amplification mutation and sequencing of a six letter synthetic genetic system.

The 6 pairs below A T G C Z P Ds Px NAM SSICS isoC isoG have been shown to be compatible with polymerases and orthogonal to each other i.e. low levels of cross pairing .

In certain exemplary embodiments oligonucleotide sequences may be prepared using one or more of the phosphoramidite linkers and or sequencing by ligation methods known to those of skill in the art. Oligonucleotide sequences may also be prepared by any suitable method e.g. standard phosphoramidite methods such as those described herein below as well as those described by Beaucage and Carruthers 1981 22 1859 or the triester method according to Matteucci et al. 1981 103 3185 or by other chemical methods using either a commercial automated oligonucleotide synthesizer or high throughput high density array methods known in the art see U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 602 244 5 574 146 5 554 744 5 428 148 5 264 566 5 141 813 5 959 463 4 861 571 and 4 659 774 incorporated herein by reference in its entirety for all purposes . Pre synthesized oligonucleotides may also be obtained commercially from a variety of vendors.

In certain exemplary embodiments oligonucleotide sequences may be prepared using a variety of microarray technologies known in the art. Pre synthesized oligonucleotide and or polynucleotide sequences may be attached to a support or synthesized in situ using light directed methods flow channel and spotting methods inkjet methods pin based methods and bead based methods set forth in the following references McGall et al. 1996 93 13555 In Genetic Engineering Vol. 20 111 Plenum Press 1998 Duggan et al. 1999 . S21 10In Microarray Bioinformatics Cambridge University Press 2003 U.S. Patent Application Publication Nos. 2003 0068633 and 2002 0081582 U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 833 450 6 830 890 6 824 866 6 800 439 6 375 903 and 5 700 637 and PCT Application Nos. WO 04 031399 WO 04 031351 WO 04 029586 WO 03 100012 WO 03 066212 WO 03 065038 WO 03 064699 WO 03 064027 WO 03 064026 WO 03 046223 WO 03 040410 and WO 02 24597.

In certain exemplary embodiments one or more oligonucleotide sequences described herein are immobilized on a support e.g. a solid and or semi solid support . In certain aspects an oligonucleotide sequence can be attached to a support using one or more of the phosphoramidite linkers described herein. Suitable supports include but are not limited to slides beads chips particles strands gels sheets tubing spheres containers capillaries pads slices films plates and the like. In various embodiments a solid support may be biological nonbiological organic inorganic or any combination thereof. When using a support that is substantially planar the support may be physically separated into regions for example with trenches grooves wells or chemical barriers e.g. hydrophobic coatings etc. . In certain exemplary embodiments a support is a microarray. As used herein the term microarray refers in one embodiment to a type of assay that comprises a solid phase support having a substantially planar surface on which there is an array of spatially defined non overlapping regions or sites that each contain an immobilized hybridization probe. Substantially planar means that features or objects of interest such as probe sites on a surface may occupy a volume that extends above or below a surface and whose dimensions are small relative to the dimensions of the surface. For example beads disposed on the face of a fiber optic bundle create a substantially planar surface of probe sites or oligonucleotides disposed or synthesized on a porous planar substrate creates a substantially planar surface. Spatially defined sites may additionally be addressable in that its location and the identity of the immobilized probe at that location are known or determinable.

Oligonucleotides immobilized on microarrays include nucleic acids that are generated in or from an assay reaction. Typically the oligonucleotides or polynucleotides on microarrays are single stranded and are covalently attached to the solid phase support usually by a 5 end or a 3 end. In certain exemplary embodiments probes are immobilized via one or more of the cleavable linkers described herein. The density of non overlapping regions containing nucleic acids in a microarray is typically greater than 100 per cm and more typically greater than 1000 per cm. Microarray technology relating to nucleic acid probes is reviewed in the following exemplary references Schena Editor IRL Press Oxford 2000 Southern . 2 404 410 1998 Supplement 21 1 60 1999 and Fodor et al U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 424 186 5 445 934 and 5 744 305.

Methods of immobilizing oligonucleotides to a support are known in the art beads Dressman et al. 2003 100 8817 Brenner et al. 2000 18 630 Albretsen et al. 1990 189 40 and Lang et al. . 1988 16 10861 nitrocellulose Ranki et al. 1983 21 77 cellulose Goldkorn 1986 14 9171 polystyrene Ruth et al. 1987 Conference of Therapeutic and Diagnostic Applications of Synthetic Nucleic Acids Cambridge U.K. teflon acrylamide Duncan et al. 1988 169 104 polypropylene Polsky Cynkin et al. 1985 31 1438 nylon Van Ness et al. 1991 19 3345 agarose Polsky Cynkin et al. . 1985 31 1438 and sephacryl Langdale et al. 1985 36 201 latex Wolf et al. 1987 15 2911 .

As used herein the term attach refers to both covalent interactions and noncovalent interactions. A covalent interaction is a chemical linkage between two atoms or radicals formed by the sharing of a pair of electrons i.e. a single bond two pairs of electrons i.e. a double bond or three pairs of electrons i.e. a triple bond . Covalent interactions are also known in the art as electron pair interactions or electron pair bonds. Noncovalent interactions include but are not limited to van der Waals interactions hydrogen bonds weak chemical bonds i.e. via short range noncovalent forces hydrophobic interactions ionic bonds and the like. A review of noncovalent interactions can be found in Alberts et al. in 3d edition Garland Publishing 1994.

Sequencing primers according to the present disclosure are those that are capable of binding to a known binding region of the target polynucleotide and facilitating ligation of an oligonucleotide probe of the present disclosure. Sequencing primers may be designed with the aid of a computer program such as for example DNAWorks or Gene2Oligo. The binding region can vary in length but it should be long enough to hybridize the sequencing primer. Target polynucleotides may have multiple different binding regions thereby allowing different sections of the target polynucleotide to be sequenced. Sequencing primers are selected to form highly stable duplexes so that they remain hybridized during successive cycles of ligation. Sequencing primers can be selected such that ligation can proceed in either the 5 to 3 direction or the 3 to 5 direction or both. Sequencing primers may contain modified nucleotides or bonds to enhance their hybridization efficiency or improve their stability or prevent extension from a one terminus or the other.

According to one aspect single stranded DNA templates ssDNA are prepared by RCA as described above to be used with sequencing primers. Alternatively single stranded template is attached to beads or nanoparticles in an emulsion and amplified through ePCR. The result is clonal beads with a single amplified ssDNA template.

For the purpose of identifying several template nucleotide sequences in parallel the templates are diluted in PBS buffer pH 7.4 and either bound to a patterned or non patterned substrate utilizing various attachment methods such as Biotin Strepavidin azide alkyle e.g. click chemistry NHS ester or Silanization e.g. aldehyde epoxy amino silane . According to one aspect rolonies are attached to a patterned surface such as a SiOsolid surface treated with 1 aminosilane v v and let to interact for a period of time typically between 5 minutes to 2 hours . Any unbound templates are then washed away using Wash 1 buffer.

Next a sequencing primer is prepared and hybridized to the sequencing primer hybridizing site. According to certain aspects sequencing primers can be prepared which can hybridize to a known sequence of the template. Alternatively during template preparation adapters with a known nucleic acid sequence are added to the unknown nucleic acid sequence by way of ligation amplification transposition or recombination according to methods known to those of skill in the art and described herein. Still alternatively sequencing primers having a certain level of degeneracy could be used to hybridize to certain positions along the template. According to one aspect primer degeneracy is used to allow primers to hybridize semi randomly along the template. Primer degeneracy is selected based on statistical methods known to those of skill in the art to facilitate primers hybridizing at certain intervals along the length of the template. According to this aspect primers can be designed having a certain degeneracy which facilitates binding every N bases such as every 100 bases every 200 bases every 2000 bases every 100 000 bases. The binding of the primers along the length of the template is based on the design of the primers and the statistical likelihood that a primer design will bind about every N bases along the length of the template. Since the sequencing primer P1 will be extended by ligation the terminal group of the sequencing primer is typically synthesized to be ready to be covalently joined to the oligonucleotide probe by the DNA ligase. If the ligation occurs between the 5 end of the sequencing primer and the 3 end of the oligonucleotide probe a phosphate group 5 PO must be present on the sequencing primer while a hydroxyl group 3 OH on the oligonucleotide probe and vice versa. To hybridize the sequencing primer to the sequencing primer hybridizing site 1 uM of the sequencing primer diluted in 5 SSPE buffer is used. The mixture is then incubated for a few minutes above room temperature to encourage proper annealing typically between 1 to 5 minutes at temperature between 25 and 55 C. .

According to certain aspects oligonucleotide sequences may be prepared using ink jet techniques known to those of skill in the art electrochemical techniques known to those of skill in the art microfluidic techniques known to those of skill in the art photogenerated acids known to those of skill in the art or photodeprotected monomers known to those of skill in the art. Such techniques have the advantage of making oligonucleotides at high speed low cost fewer toxic chemicals enhanced portability and ability to interleave DNA biochemistry e.g. modifications polymerases hybridization etc. with de novo digital or analog synthesis. For example spatially patterned light either directly from camera optics or from Digital Micromirror Display devices DMD can be used with aqueous chemistry. See US2003 0228611. For example a template independent polymerase like Terminal deoxynucleotidyl Transferase TdT or poly A polymerase alternatively a template dependent polymerase like Taq or Phi29 derivatives can have their basic polymerase function base specificity or fidelity programmable by light by incorporating an azobenzene amino acid see Hoppmann C Schmieder P Heinrich N Beyermann M. 2011 Chembiochem. 12 17 2555 9. doi 10.1002 cbic. 201100578. Epub 2011 Oct. 13 Photoswitchable click amino acids light control of conformation and bioactivity into the active site of the polymerase or 5 43 exonuclease domains if present .

Light sensitive neurons optogenetics can trigger ion sensitive polymerases see Zamft B Marblestone A Kording K Schmidt D Martin Alarcon D Tyo K Boyden E Church GM 2012 Measuring Cation Dependent DNA Polymerase Fidelity Landscapes by Deep Sequencing. PLoS One in press or for some applications the ion flux patterns themselves can constitute the stored datasets.

The de novo polymers can be stored and read with or without polymerase amplification. Amplification can be via thermal cycling or isothermal. The amplicons can be short 100 to 200 mers as is convenient for current chemical synthesis or up to 1 Mbp as might be achievable with polymerases.

The nucleotide type incorporated can be determined by a the intersection of a light pulse coincident with a particular dNTP or rNTP or other monomer class present at that time point in a cyclic pattern of dNTP solutions. b caged i.e. photo activatable or photo inactivatable dNTPs rNTPs or cations. c base specific light modulated steric or conformational selectivity see Hoppmann C Schmieder P Heinrich N Beyermann M. 2011 Chembiochem. 12 17 2555 9. doi 10.1002 cbic.201100578. Epub 2011 Oct. 13. Photoswitchable click amino acids light control of conformation and bioactivity . Poly A polymerase is particularly useful since its specificity for ATp relative to other rNTPs is due to a conformational change which can be mimicked by a photo sensitive amino acid linkage like azobenzene with or without crosslinking .

This invention is further illustrated by the following example which should not be construed as limiting. The contents of all references patents and published patent applications cited throughout this application are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety for all purposes.

An HTML version of a draft book called Church G M and Regis E to be published by Basic Books New York N.Y. was selected to demonstrate modern formatting images and javascript. As with typical web pages Universal Character Set Transformation Format 8 bit UTF 8 a variable width encoding which is backwards compatible with ASCII and UNICODE for special characters and fonts were used. There were 11 images that are black and white and JPEG encoded typically a 10 1 data compression with little loss in quality . These were embedded inline i.e. not separate files in the html in base64 format. A consensus bit error in the middle of any of these JPEG segments would only affect data downstream within that segment. A bit error in the text will affect at most the 12 characters in that oligonucleotide containing the error. The javascript is a simple display of a 37 byte text string mnemonic encoding of the genetic code that can curve dynamically to follow the cursor position. According to the present disclosure DNA like other digital media can encode executable directives for digital machines.

The book was converted to html format with embedded jpg images . The book was read in bit form and then individual bits were converted to A or C for 0 and T or G for 1. Bases were chosen randomly while disallowing homopolymer runs greater than three. Addresses of the bitstream were 19 bits long and numbered consecutively starting from 0000000000000000001. The script Bits2DNA.pl see code section is the program used for encoding the html file into DNA segments.

54 898 oligonucleotides were synthesized on an Agilent Oligo Library Synthesis microarray platform. DNA was eluted by Agilent to give an 10 picomole pool of oligonucleotides in 100 L TE 10 mM Tris Cl pH 7.5 0.1 mM EDTA .

The libraries were amplified as follows. 1 L 10 femtomole expected of library was used in a 50 L PCR amplification reaction using 200 nM each of primers MD Test 1F and MD Test 1R for 6 cycles using Sybr Fast Master Mix Kapa Biosystems in a BioRad CFX96 Real Time PCR machine and monitored the Sybr Green channel during amplification.

The resulting PCR product was purified using Qiagen MinElute PCR cleanup column according to manufacturer s instructions into 10 L of Buffer EB 10 mM Tris Cl pH 8.5 . The eluted DNA gave a concentration of 36.8 ng L A260 A280 1.85 as measured by a NanoDrop 2000c spectrophotometer.

Two tubes of 1 L of 1 11 diluted in water amplification reaction were amplified for nine cycles using the same conditions but this time using 200 nM of PE PCR Primer 1.0 F and PE PCR Primer 2.0 R. PCR reactions were cleaned up using Ampure beads per manufacturer s suggestion Agencourt to remove residual primers and resuspended in 50 L of TE. The final product was 22 ng L as quantified both through NanoDrop and agarose gel imaging. Primers used are as follows with denoting phosphorothioate linkage.

The amplified library was sequenced by loading 1 mL of 14 pM library 14 finoles 1 1000 of the amplified library on a single lane of a HiSeq 2000 using paired end 100 reads. From the lane we got 346 151 426 million paired reads with 87.14 Q30 and mean Q score of 34.16. Since a 115 bp construct with paired 100 bp reads was being sequenced SeqPrep See 11 J. St. John SeqPrep https github.com jstjohn SeqPrep 2011 was used to combine overlapping reads into a single contig using the following command for a single tile of the HiSeq lane SeqPrep f MTMC2 NoIndex L006 R1 002. fastq.gz r MTMC2NoIndex L006 R2002.fastq.gz 1 tile2r1.fastq.gz 2 tile2r2.fastq.gz s tile2 merged.fastq.gz E tile2 align.txt.gz o 50 m 0.1 n 0.8.

After SeqPrep 292 371 030 contigs were formed. The contigs were aligned to the reference using Bowtie2 version 2.0.0 beta5 See 17 B. Langmead S. L. Salzberg Nature Methods 9 357 360 2012 and SamTools version 0.1.18 See 18 H. Li et al. Bioinformatics 25 2078 2079 2009 using the following command zcat merged bowtie2 p 10 end to end x.. .. .. agilentlib U samtools view bS alltiles merged.bam.

After alignment 267 993 389 92 aligned to one member of the synthetic library giving average coverage of 4882 1261 1 standard deviation . SeqPrepped contigs that give the full length 115 bp contig were filtered resulting in 190 284 472 reads and 3419 998 average coverage. On average for each member of the library 69.5 0.4 of the reads were of full length. The construct with the fewest number of reads was an oligo md 37545 which had 94 and 9 reads before and after 115 bp filtering the resulting consensus was still correct for this oligo.

From the consensus library discrepancies were found between designed and read sequences that are summarized in Table 1 below. As shown 22 discrepancies were found 10 of which resulted in bit errors bolded . Most of the errors 20 22 were located within the last 15 bases of the sequence where there was only single coverage during sequencing. In addition most of the errors 18 22 resulted in runs of at least 3 consecutive repeated nucleotides. Screening out homopolymer reads of 4 or more repeated nucleotides greyed boxes would result in 12 discrepancies 7 of which are bit errors.

Table 1 indicates discrepancies between designed and read library. Each error is one row displaying the barcode the error is associated with the position in the oligo out of 115 the error type whether or not the error resulted in a bit change the original context and the new context error position is in the middle of dashes and finally whether or not the error resulted in a run of 4 bases that could have been filtered out. Lines that resulted in bit errors are bolded and lines that could have been filtered based on runs of 4 consecutive bases are shaded.

Theoretical DNA density was calculated by using 2 bits per nucleotide of single stranded DNA. The molecular weight of DNA we used was based on an average of 330.95 g mol nucleotide of anhydrous weight for the sodium salt of an ATGC balanced library. This results in a weight density of 1 bit per 2.75 10g and thus 1.8 10bytes can be stored in 3.96 g. Of course practical maximums would be several orders of magnitude less dense depending the types of redundancy barcoding and encoding schemes desired. This theoretical maximum calculation is not used in .

Data plotted on is a comparison between very different technologies. In cases of planar density calculations where thickness was not reported 100 m was chosen as depth this is 10 smaller than a hard drive platter and 33 smaller than current Flash memory stacking . Current information encoding density 96 bits per 159 bp and 100 synthesized coverage of the DNA in storage was assumed. An approximate volume of 1 g cm the density of pure water which is probably a slight underestimate for dry DNA was assumed.

Table 2 shows data used in to compare data densities in different media. In order to compare vastly different technologies for information encoding all data density information was converted into volumetric data densities by making various assumptions. For commercial technologies available information was used about substrate thickness where available. In the case of flash memory best in class data density was combined with chip stacking thickness from different manufacturers. For demonstration data storage technologies substrate thicknesses were not reported. Therefore 100 m thickness was assumed which is the current thickness of stacked flash storage technologies. This may be unrealistic for those technologies as published as all the demonstrations were performed at 4 K and in vacuum. The density of dried DNA was approximated to water s density which may be an underestimation. For other biological demonstrations using cloned DNA volumes of individual cells was used as volume. Finally greyed rows are not shown in as they were obscured by other data points but are included here for completeness.

According to one aspect html coded draft of a book that included 53 426 words 11 JPG images and 1 Javascript program was converted into 5.27 megabits See 4. Information on materials and methods is available on Science Online. The bits were then encoded onto 54 898 159 nt oligonucleotides each encoding a 96 bit data block 96 nt a 19 bit address specifying the location of the data block in the bit stream 19 nt and flanking 22 nt common sequences for amplification and sequencing. The oligonucleotide library was synthesized by ink jet printed high fidelity DNA microchips See 10. E. M. LeProust et al. Nucleic Acids Research 38 2522 2540 2010 . To read the encoded book the library was amplified by limited cycle PCR and then sequenced on a single lane of an Illumina HiSeq. Overlapping paired end 100 nt reads were joined to reduce the effect of sequencing error See 11. J. St. John SeqPrep https github.com jstjohn SeqPrep 2011 . Then using only reads that gave the expected 115 nt length and perfect barcode sequences consensus was generated at each base of each data block at an average of about 3000 fold coverage. All data blocks were recovered with a total of 10 bit errors out of 5.27 million which were predominantly located within homo polymer runs at the end of the oligo where we only had single sequence coverage See 4. Information on materials and methods is available on Science Online.

The density of the embodiments disclosed herein was about 5.5 petabits mmat 100 synthetic coverage. The scale of the embodiments disclosed herein was about 5.27 megabits. The method steps described herein were carried out using commercially available materials and instruments. is a comparison of information density showing that the embodiments of the present disclosure This work provided a higher information density compared with other storage media. According to certain aspects embodiments include the use of compression redundant encodings parity checks and error correction to improve density distribution and error rate. According to certain aspects DNA libraries can also be stored without physical isolation by using unique priming sites that allow for orthogonal amplification See 12. S. Kosuri et al. Nature Biotechnology 28 1295 1299 2010 . According to certain aspects polymers other than DNA or DNA modifications can also be used to maximize reading writing and storage capabilities See 13. S. A. Benner Z. Yang F. Chen Comptes Rendus Chimie 14 372 387 2011 . According to one aspect a hand held single molecule DNA sequencer may be used to read DNA encoded information See 15. E. Pennissi Science 336 534 537 2012 . According to one aspect the general approach of using addressed data blocks combined with library synthesis and consensus sequencing is compatible with commercially available DNA sequencing and synthesis technologies. According to one aspect alternative consumer level uses of DNA such as information storage could accelerate development of new technologies for improving synthesis and sequencing technologies See 16. S. Kosuri A. M. Sismour ACS Synth Biol 1 109 110 2012 .

References identified herein and the following references are hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties for all purposes and are referred to throughout the present disclosure by the corresponding number.

Other embodiments will be evident to those of skill in the art. It should be understood that the foregoing description is provided for clarity only and is merely exemplary. The spirit and scope of the present invention are not limited to the above example but are encompassed by the claims. All publications patents and patent applications cited above are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety for all purposes to the same extent as if each individual publication or patent application were specifically indicated to be so incorporated by reference.

