---

title: Mobile device as point of transaction for in-store purchases
abstract: Systems, methods and computer programs provide for implementing a mobile communication device, such as a smart telephone or the like, as a point of transaction for in-store purchases, such that all a customer needs to do is capture the coded indicia of products they desire (i.e., scan the products) with their mobile communication device as they shop and the purchase transaction will subsequently occur based on either the customer (in possession of the mobile communication device) being physically located in a designated area of the store or the lapse of a predetermined period of time from when the coded indicia was captured.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09177451&OS=09177451&RS=09177451
owner: Bank of America Corporation
number: 09177451
owner_city: Charlotte
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130305
---
In general embodiments herein disclosed relate to commerce and more specifically using a mobile communication device as a point of transaction for in store purchases.

Retailers are always trying to find ways to make the customer s experience more enjoyable. One way to make the customer experience more enjoyable is to make the overall shopping experience more efficient. In this regard the less time that a customer spends shopping typically equates to a more enjoyable experience.

Retailers such as grocery stores and the like have recently implemented self checkouts that allow the customer to scan and bag their items as a means of adding efficiency to the check out process. Such self checks outs have been welcomed by the customer and as such more and more self checks are being added at grocery stores and other in store locations to accommodate there widespread customer acceptance. However while self checkouts impart some degree of accelerating the check out process self checks are not without their limitations and drawbacks in terms of check out efficiency. For example all too often a customer may experience a problem during the self check that requires assistance from a self checkout attendant and or store manager. In other instances customers new or not adept at the self checkout process may add delay for those waiting to use a self out station.

Another drawback of the overall shopping experience is that a customer typically does not know the total amount of their purchase until they reach a check out station a sales associate checkout station or a self checkout station . They only way for a customer to circumvent this problem is to use a calculator as they accumulate the products they desire to purchase and or keep track of an estimated total purchase amount in their head.

Therefore a need exists to create new ways for customers to conduct a purchase transaction i.e. checkout within retail locations. The desired purchase transaction system should be highly efficient so as to limit the amount of time that a customer spends at the retail location. Moreover the desired purchase transaction system should allow customers the ability to track the total purchase amount as they shop and acquire products which they desire to purchase.

The following presents a simplified summary of one or more embodiments in order to provide a basic understanding of such embodiments. This summary is not an extensive overview of all contemplated embodiments and is intended to neither identify key or critical elements of all embodiments nor delineate the scope of any or all embodiments. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts of one or more embodiments in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

Methods apparatus systems and computer program products are described herein that provide for implementing a mobile communication device such as a smart telephone or the like as a point of transaction for in store purchases such that all a customer needs to do is capture the coded indicia of products they desire i.e. scan the products with their mobile communication device as they shop and the purchase transaction will subsequently occur based on either the customer in possession of the mobile communication device being physically located in a designated area of the store or the lapse of a predetermined period of time from when the coded indicia was captured. Geo fencing or the like may be used in conjunction with the mobile communication device to track where the customer is physically located within and in some embodiments external to the retail location. For example a hot spot area may be designated within the store such that the presence of the customer in the hot spot as determined by their mobile communication device automatically results in the purchase transaction being consummated for the products associated with the coded indicia the customer has captured. The customer merely moving through the hot spot area completes the purchase transaction without the need for the customer to present the products to a sales associate and or rescan the products at a check out terminal. In other examples the designated area may be a specified automated checkout exit way such that customer in possession of the mobile communication device passage through the exit way completes the purchase transaction. In another example the designated area may be defined by an exterior perimeter of the retail location such that customer in possession of the mobile communication device passage from inside the perimeter to outside the perimeter competes the purchase transaction.

A system for conducting purchase transactions within a retail location defines first embodiments of the invention. The system includes a mobile communication device including a computing platform having a processor and a memory in communication with the processor. The memory of the mobile communication device stores a product selection application that is executable by the processor of the mobile communication device and configured to capture computer readable indicia associated with one or more products that a customer desires to purchase. The computer readable indicia is captured prior to the customer encountering a check out location within the retail location and the computer readable indicia when read by a computing device processor provides information operable to purchase an associated product. The system further includes a computing device including a computing platform comprising a processor and a memory in communication with the processor. The memory of the computing device stores a purchase transaction application that is executable by the processor and configured to receive the information from the mobile communication device and conduct a purchase transaction of the one or more products for the customer in automatic response to one of 1 the customer and the mobile communication device entering a designated physical area associated with the retail location or 2 lapse of a predetermined period of time from when the computer readable indicia was captured.

In specific embodiments of the system the purchase transaction application is further configured to conduct the purchase transaction of the one or more products in automatic response to the customer entering the designated physical area defined as one of 1 located within the retail location 2 a specified exit way from the retail location 3 located outside an external perimeter of the retail location or 4 a predetermined distance from where the computer readable indicia was captured.

In other specific embodiments of the system the customer is in a pre existing trusted relationship with the retailer such that the trusted relationship is operable to authorize the customer to conduct the purchase transaction.

In still further specific embodiments of the system the purchase transaction application is further configured to generate and initiate communication of a purchase receipt to the mobile communication device. The receipt indicates that the customer has completed the purchase transaction of the one or more products

In other additional embodiments of the system the purchase transaction application is further configured to in response to communicating the information generate and communicate a notification to a warehouse associated with the retailer. The notification is operable to notify warehouse personnel of a need to ready the product for presentation to the customer.

A method for conducting purchase transactions within a retail location defines second embodiments of the invention. The method includes capturing by a mobile communication device computer readable indicia associated with one or more products that a customer desires to purchase at a retail location. The computer readable indicia is captured prior to the customer encountering a check out location within the retail location and the computer readable indicia when read by a computing device processor provides information operable to purchase an associated product. The method additionally includes communicating wirelessly by the mobile communication device the information to a purchase transaction system associated with the retailer. Moreover the method includes conducting by a computing device processor a purchase transaction of the one or more products in automatic response to one of 1 the customer and the mobile communication device entering a designated physical area associated with the retail location or 2 lapse of a predetermined period of time from when the computer readable indicia was captured.

In specific embodiments of the method conducting the purchase transaction further comprises conducting by the computing device processor the purchase transaction of the one or more products in automatic response to the customer entering the designated physical area defined as one of 1 located within the retail location 2 a specified exit way from the retail location 3 located outside an external perimeter of the retail location or 4 a predetermined distance from where the computer readable indicia was captured.

In other specific embodiments of the method the customer is in a pre existing trusted relationship with the retailer such that the trusted relationship is operable to authorize the customer to conduct the purchase transaction.

In still further embodiments the method includes in response to conducting the purchase transaction communicating to the mobile communication device a purchase receipt that indicates that the customer has completed the purchase transaction of the one or more products.

In additional specific embodiments the method includes in response to communicating the information communicating by a computing device processor a notification to a warehouse associated with the retailer wherein the notification is operable to notify warehouse personnel of a need to ready the product for presentation to the customer.

A computer program product including a non transitory computer readable medium defines third embodiments of the invention. The computer readable medium provides for computer executable instructions to cause a computer to implement the steps of 1 capturing computer readable indicia associated with one or more products that a customer desires to purchase at a retail location wherein the computer readable indicia is captured prior to the customer encountering a check out location within the retail location and wherein the computer readable indicia when read by a computing device processor provides information operable to purchase an associated product 2 communicating wirelessly the information to a purchase transaction system associated with the retailer and 3 conducting a purchase transaction of the one or more products in automatic response to one of 1 the customer and the mobile communication device entering a designated physical area associated with the retail location or 2 lapse of a predetermined period of time from when the computer readable indicia was captured.

Thus systems apparatus methods and computer products are described in more detail below that provide for implementing a mobile communication device such as a smart telephone or the like as a point of transaction for in store purchases such that all a customer needs to do is capture the coded indicia of products they desire i.e. scan the products with their mobile communication device as they shop and the purchase transaction will subsequently occur based on either the customer in possession of the mobile communication device being physically located in a designated area of the store or the lapse of a predetermined period of time from when the coded indicia was captured.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the one or more embodiments comprise the features hereinafter fully described and particularly pointed out in the claims. The following description and the annexed drawings set forth in detail certain illustrative features of the one or more embodiments. These features are indicative however of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of various embodiments may be employed and this description is intended to include all such embodiments and their equivalents.

Embodiments of the present invention will now be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which some but not all embodiments of the invention are shown. Indeed the invention may be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will satisfy applicable legal requirements. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of one or more embodiments. It may be evident however that such embodiment s may be practiced without these specific details. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.

Various embodiments or features will be presented in terms of systems that may include a number of devices components modules and the like. It is to be understood and appreciated that the various systems may include additional devices components modules etc. and or may not include all of the devices components modules etc. discussed in connection with the figures. A combination of these approaches may also be used.

The steps and or actions of a method or algorithm described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers a hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium may be coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. Further in some embodiments the processor and the storage medium may reside in an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC . In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a computing device. Additionally in some embodiments the events and or actions of a method or algorithm may reside as one or any combination or set of codes and or instructions on a machine readable medium and or computer readable medium which may be incorporated into a computer program product.

In one or more embodiments the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored or transmitted as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage medium may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Also any connection may be termed a computer readable medium. For example if software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc as used herein include compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs usually reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

Methods apparatus systems and computer program products are described herein that provide for implementing a mobile communication device such as a smart telephone or the like as a point of transaction for in store purchases such that all a customer needs to do is capture the coded indicia of products they desire i.e. scan the products with their mobile communication device as they shop and the purchase transaction will subsequently occur based on either the customer in possession of the mobile communication device being physically located in a designated area of the store or the lapse of a predetermined period of time from when the coded indicia was captured. Geo fencing or the like may be used in conjunction with the mobile communication device to track where the customer is physically located within and in some embodiments external to the retail location. For example a hot spot area may be designated within the store such that the presence of the customer in the hot spot as determined by their mobile communication device automatically results in the purchase transaction being consummated for the products associated with the coded indicia the customer has captured. The customer merely moving through the hot spot area completes the purchase transaction without the need for the customer to present the products to a sales associate and or rescan the products at a check out terminal. In other examples the designated area may be a specified automated checkout exit way such that customer in possession of the mobile communication device passage through the exit way completes the purchase transaction. In another example the designated area may be defined by an exterior perimeter of the retail location such that customer in possession of the mobile communication device passage from inside the perimeter to outside the perimeter competes the purchase transaction.

The mobile communication device includes a computing platform having a memory and at least one processor in communication with the memory . The memory stores product selection purchase application that is configured to allow the user customer in conjunction with an image capturing device included with the mobile communication device to capture computer readable indicia associated with products that the customer desires to purchase. The computer readable indicia which may be a Universal Product Code UPC or the like may be disposed on the product or may be disposed on a placard or advertisement located near the product or a product display. The computer readable indicia when read by a computing device provides product related information that is operable to purchase the associated product such as product price description and the like.

It should be noted that the customer will capture the indicia related to products that they desire to purchase while they are shopping for products at the retail location i.e. prior to encountering a checkout station location within the retail location . For example a customer will pick up a product they desire to purchase capture the indicia on the product i.e. scan the product and place the product in their shopping cart basket.

The mobile computing device additionally includes at least one of a location determining mechanism and or a time measurement mechanism . As discussed infra. completion of the purchase transaction may be triggered to automatically occur based on the mobile communication device entering or residing in a designated geographic location. In such embodiments a requisite location determining mechanism is required to determine the current geographic location of the mobile communication device . In other embodiments of the invention the purchase transaction may be triggered to automatically occur based on a lapse of a predetermined time from when indicia was captured. In such embodiments a requisite time measurement e.g. clock mechanism is required to determine the lapse of predetermined period of time.

The system additionally includes computing device such as a server that is associated with the retail location store. The computing device may be physically located at the retail location or in other embodiments located remotely from the retail location. The computing device may be any computing device capable of executing applications and receiving communications from mobile communication device via network .

The computing device includes a computing platform having a memory and at least one processor in communication with the memory . The memory stores purchase transaction application that is configured to wirelessly receive the product information from mobile communication device and complete the purchase transaction for the products associated with the product information in automatic response to a geographic location purchasing trigger such as the customer in possession of the mobile communication device entering a designated physical area associated with the retail location. In other embodiments of the invention the purchase transaction application will complete the purchase transaction in automatic response to a time purchasing trigger such as lapse of a predetermined period of time from when the computer readable indicia was last captured by the mobile communication device . It should be noted that the mobile communication device will be recognizable to the purchase transaction application as the mobile communication device belonging to the customer based on the customer having previously registered the mobile communication device in an automated mobile communication device purchase program offered by the retailer store. In addition as discussed in relation to the purchase transaction application will have access to a customer profile which specifies the payment account to be applied to the purchase transaction based on customer configuration.

Referring to shown is a more detailed block diagram of the computing device according to embodiments of the present invention. The computing device is configured to be implemented for completing the purchase transaction. In addition to providing greater detail highlights various alternate embodiments of the invention.

The computing device which may comprise more than one unit or devices such as multiple servers or the like includes computing platform that can receive and execute algorithms such as routines and applications. Computing platform includes memory which may comprise volatile and non volatile memory such as read only and or random access memory RAM and ROM EPROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. Further memory may include one or more flash memory cells or may be any secondary or tertiary storage device such as magnetic media optical media tape or soft or hard disk.

Further computing platform also includes processor which may be an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other chipset processor logic circuit or other data processing device. Processor or other processor such as ASIC may execute an application programming interface API not shown in that interfaces with any resident programs such as service purchase transaction application and algorithms associated therewith or the like stored in the memory of the computing device .

Processor includes various processing subsystems embodied in hardware firmware software and combinations thereof that enable the functionality of computing device and the operability of the apparatus on the network . For example processing subsystems allow for initiating and maintaining communications and exchanging data with other networked devices. For the disclosed aspects processing subsystems of processor may include any subsystem used in conjunction with service purchase transaction application and related algorithms sub algorithms sub modules thereof.

Computer platform may additionally include communications module not shown in embodied in hardware firmware software and combinations thereof that enables communications among the various components of the mobile communications device as well as between the other networked devices. Thus communication module may include the requisite hardware firmware software and or combinations thereof for establishing a network communication connection receiving product information communicated from wireless device .

As previously noted the memory of mobile communication device stores purchase transaction application that is configured to wirelessly receive the product information from mobile communication device and complete the purchase transaction for the products associated with the product information . In alternate embodiments in which the mobile communication device may not be configured to decode the coded indicia the purchase transaction application may be configured to wirelessly receive the computer readable indicia from mobile communication device and subsequently decode the indicia to provide the requisite product information .

As previously noted in certain embodiments of the invention the purchase transaction application will complete the purchase transaction in automatic response to a geographic location purchasing trigger such as the customer in possession of the mobile communication device entering a designated physical area associated with the retail location. The designated physical area may be defined by application of geo fencing techniques such that the mobile communication device equipped with requisite location determining mechanisms can determine when the mobile communication device is located within a particular designated geo fenced area.

In specific embodiments of the invention the designated geo fenced area may be a hot spot area typically located proximate to conventional check out counters. The hot spot area may be dually marked with signage or the like such that customer is made aware of where they need go to complete the transaction. The purchaser transaction application is configured to recognize the mobile communication device s presence within the geo fenced area i.e. the hot spot and in response to the mobile communication device entering the hot spot area automatically complete the transaction. The hot spot area may include any additional devices needed to complete the transaction such as scales or the like needed to weigh product sold on a per weight basis or the like. In addition a sales associate may be located at or near the hot spot area to confirm through interfacing with a computing device completion of the purchase transaction.

In other specific embodiments of the invention the designated geo fenced area may be a designated exit way The designated exit way may be dually marked with signage or the like such that customer is made aware of where they need to exit to complete the transaction. The purchaser transaction application is configured to recognize the mobile communication device s passage through the designated geo fenced exit way and in response to the mobile communication device passing through the exit way automatically complete the transaction. The exit way may be configured with an authorization mechanism such as a turnstile engaged by a passcode passkey or the like such that only authorized users customers can gain access to the exit way.

In still further specific embodiments of the invention the designated geo fenced area may be a designated external perimeter of the retail location store. For example a perimeter located a certain distance from the physical building that the retail location occupies. In such embodiments the purchaser transaction application is configured to recognize the mobile communication device s passage through the designated geo fenced perimeter and in response to the mobile communication device passing through the perimeter automatically complete the transaction. It should be noted that in such embodiments of the invention the transaction is not completed until the customer in possession of the mobile communication device has already exited the physical location of the retailer store.

In still further specific embodiments of the invention the designated geo fenced area may be defined by a predetermined distance from where the indicia was captured. In such embodiments the purchaser transaction application is configured to recognize that the mobile communication has moved the requisite predetermined distance from where the code was captured and in response automatically complete the transaction. It should be noted that since a customer may be apt to purchase multiple products while at the retail location store such configuration may lead to multiple purchase transactions occurring or the purchaser transaction application may be configured to queue all transactions confirmed within a designated predetermined period of time and conduct one purchase transactions upon lapse of the predetermined period of time.

In other embodiments of the invention the purchase transaction application will complete the purchase transaction in automatic response to a time purchasing trigger such as lapse of a predetermined period of time from when the computer readable indicia was last captured by the mobile communication device . It should be noted that since a customer may be apt to purchase multiple products while at the retail location store such configuration may lead to multiple purchase transactions occurring or the predetermined period of time may of such length e.g. an hour or longer that the customer will likely have completed shopping at the retail location store when the lapse of the time period occurs.

The purchase transaction application additionally includes purchase transaction logic configured to conduct the purchase transaction based on occurrence of either the geographic location purchasing trigger or the time purchasing trigger . The logic includes purchase amount determination routine which is configured to determine a total purchase amount based on all of the products associated with the received product information and any requisite sales tax to be applied to the purchase amount.

The logic additionally includes payment determination routine that is configured to determine to payment account credit debit card account or the like that is to be applied to the transaction. In this regard payment determination routine accesses mobile communication device purchase program customer database which includes customer profiles for all customers registered to participate in the mobile communication device purchase program. Each profile will include mobile communication device information for one or more devices possessed by the customer and payment account information for one or more payment accounts which the customer desires to be applied to purchase transactions. The mobile communication device information includes the requisite information such as telephone number or other identifier needed to correlate the received product information to registered wireless device within the program and thus a registered customer. Further payment account information may be configured by the customer such that the payment account will vary depending on the different parameters such as product types purchased time of week month or year purchase is made purchase amount or the like.

The purchase transaction amount logic additionally includes purchase receipt routine that is configured to upon successful completion of the purchase transaction generate and wirelessly communicate a purchase receipt to the wireless communication device of the customer. The purchase receipt which may in the form of an email or the like includes the payment amount product description and any other relevant receipt type information. In specific embodiments the purchase receipt is immediately communicated to the wireless device upon successful completion of the purchase transaction so that the customer is aware that the transaction has occurred.

Referring to shown is a more detailed block diagram of the mobile communication device according to embodiments of the present invention. The mobile communication device is configured to be implemented as point of transaction device for in store purchases. In addition to providing greater detail highlights various alternate embodiments of the invention.

The mobile communication device includes computing platform that can receive and execute algorithms such as routines and applications. Computing platform includes memory which may comprise volatile and non volatile memory such as read only and or random access memory RAM and ROM EPROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. Further memory may include one or more flash memory cells or may be any secondary or tertiary storage device such as magnetic media optical media tape or soft or hard disk.

Further computing platform also includes processor which may be an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other chipset processor logic circuit or other data processing device. Processor or other processor such as ASIC may execute an application programming interface API not shown in that interfaces with any resident programs such as retail location application product selection purchase application or indicia code reader application and algorithms associated therewith or the like stored in the memory of the mobile communication device .

Processor includes various processing subsystems embodied in hardware firmware software and combinations thereof that enable the functionality of mobile communication device and the operability of the apparatus on the network . For example processing subsystems allow for initiating and maintaining communications and exchanging data with other networked devices. For the disclosed aspects processing subsystems of processor may include any subsystem used in conjunction with retail location application product selection purchase application or indicia code reader application and related algorithms sub algorithms sub modules thereof.

Computer platform may additionally include communications module not shown in embodied in hardware firmware software and combinations thereof that enables communications among the various components of the mobile communications device as well as between the other networked devices. Thus communication module may include the requisite hardware firmware software and or combinations thereof for establishing a network communication connection and communicating product information to computing device .

The memory may store retail location application configured to allow customers to register for the mobile device purchase program. In alternate embodiments registration may occur via network site such as a retailer s web site or the like this obviating the need for the retail location application. The mobile device purchase registration may be configured to receive from the customer mobile communication device information for one or more mobile communication devices such as telephone number or other identifying information and payment account information such as which payment account s should be applied to a purchase transaction. As previously noted the payment account payment vehicle may vary based on customer configuration of purchase transaction parameters such as product types time of transaction amount of transaction and the like.

The memory stores product selection purchase application that is configured to allow the user customer in conjunction with an image capturing device included with the mobile communication device to capture computer readable indicia associated with products that the customer desires to purchase. The application may be configured to provide for display of a user interface such as a graphical user interface that allows the customer to capture the computer readable indicia and based on the customer s desire choose a purchase option a price check option or a cancel purchase . Selection of the purchase option is configured to initiate communication of the product information to the purchase transaction system. Selection of the price check is configured to display the price of the product but not purchase the product i.e. not initiate communication of the product information to the purchase transaction system . Selection of the cancel purchase option is configured to cancel the purchase by other not initiating communication of the product information to the purchase transaction system if the information has yet to be communicated or in the event the information has been communicated sending other information to the purchase transaction system that overrides the purchase request. Thus the cancel purchase option may be invoked by the customer at any point in time prior to entering the designated area in which the purchase transaction automatically occurs or prior to the lapse of the designated period of time from when the indicia was captured.

The memory of mobile communication device includes indicia code reader application configured to decode the indicia to result in the product information associated with the product. In alternate embodiments of the invention the computer readable indicia will be communicated to the transaction purchasing system obviating the need to include the indicia reader application on the wireless communication device .

The mobile computing device additionally includes at least one of a location determining mechanism such as a Global Positioning System GPS device or cellular network device and or a time measurement mechanism such as a clock or the like. As discussed infra. completion of the purchase transaction may be triggered to automatically occur based on the mobile communication device entering or residing in a designated geographic location. In such embodiments a requisite location determining mechanism is required to determine the current geographic location of the mobile communication device . In other embodiments of the invention the purchase transaction may be triggered to automatically occur based on a lapse of a predetermined time from when indicia was captured. In such embodiments a requisite time measurement e.g. clock mechanism is required to determine the lapse of predetermined period of time.

Referring to a flow diagram is presented of a method for using a mobile communication device as a point of transaction for in store purchases in accordance with embodiment of the present invention. At Event a computer readable indicia associated with a product that a customer desires to purchase is captured by an image capturing mechanism within a customer s mobile communication device. The indicia when read by a computing device provided product information such as price description and the like. The indicia is captured by the mobile communication device prior to the customer encountering a conventional checkout location counter within the retail location. Typically such capture of the indicia occurs as the customer is shopping throughout the retail location e.g. pick up products capture scan indicia and place products in shopping cart .

At Event the indicia or the product information is wirelessly communicated from the mobile communication device to a purchase transaction system. In the event the mobile communication device is not configured with indicia reading capabilities the indicia will be communicated to the purchase transaction system for subsequent reading decoding.

At Event the purchase transaction is automatically conducted in response to one of 1 the customer in possession of the mobile communication device entering a designated physical area associated with the retail location or 2 lapse of a predetermined period of time from which the indicia was captured.

In specific embodiments of the method the designated physical area is a location within the retail location such as a hot spot purchase location that is geo fenced such that location of the wireless communication device within the boundaries of the hot spot triggers automatic completion of the purchase transaction.

In other specific embodiments of the method the designated physical area is a specified exit way leading from the retail location such that when the customer in possession of the wireless communication device exits through the specified exit way automatic completion of the purchase transaction ensues.

In other specific embodiments of the method the designated physical area may an external perimeter of the physical location such as a perimeter a predetermined distance from the physical location of the retailer e.g. a perimeter located at or about the parking lot or the like . In such embodiments once the customer in possession of the mobile communication devices moves from inside the perimeter to outside the perimeter the purchase transaction will automatically occur. It should be noted that such an embodiments allows for the customer to leave the premises i.e. the building in which the retailer is located of the retail location without the purchase transaction having yet been completed.

In still a further embodiment of the method the designated physical area is defined as a predetermined distance from where the indicia was captured. In such embodiments at time period may also be necessary to insure that the last in time captured indicia is the last product that the customer desires to purchase at the retail location during this particular shopping trip.

In optional embodiments of the method once the purchase transaction is completed a purchase receipt is generated by the system and communicated to the mobile communication device so that the customer has an indication that the transaction has occurred and has requisite proof of transaction. In specific embodiments the customer may be required to show the receipt to a sales associate prior to departing the retail location as a means of verifying that the transaction occurred.

Referring now to a block diagram is provided that illustrates the mobile communication device of in more detail in accordance with an embodiment of the invention. In some embodiments the mobile communication device is a mobile phone but in other embodiments the mobile communication device can include and or be embodied as any other mobile communication device described and or contemplated herein. The mobile communication device includes a processor operatively connected to such devices as memory user interfaces such as user output devices and user input devices communication interface power source clock or other timer a camera image capture device and a location determining device .

The processor may include the functionality to encode and interleave messages and data prior to modulation and transmission. The processor can additionally include an internal data modem. Further the processor may include functionality to operate one or more software programs which may be stored in the memory . For example the processor may be capable of operating a connectivity program such as a web browser application not shown in . The web browser application may then allow the mobile communication device to transmit and receive web content such as for example location based content and or other web page content according to a Wireless Application Protocol WAP Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP and or the like.

The processor is configured to use the communication interface to communicate with one or more other devices on the network not shown in . In this regard the communication interface includes an antenna operatively coupled to a transmitter and a receiver collectively referred to as a transceiver . The processor is configured to provide signals to and receive signals from the transmitter and receiver respectively. The signals may include signaling information in accordance with the air interface standard of the applicable cellular system of the wireless telephone network. In this regard the mobile communication device may be configured to operate with one or more air interface standards communication protocols modulation types and access types. By way of illustration the mobile communication device may be configured to operate in accordance with any of a number of first second third and or fourth generation and or future generation communication protocols and or the like. For example the mobile communication device may be configured to operate in accordance with second generation 2G wireless communication protocols IS 136 time division multiple access TDMA GSM global system for mobile communication and or IS 95 code division multiple access CDMA or with third generation 3G wireless communication protocols such as Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS CDMA2000 wideband CDMA WCDMA and or time division synchronous CDMA TD SCDMA with fourth generation 4G wireless communication protocols and or the like. The mobile communication device may also be configured to operate in accordance with non cellular communication mechanisms such as via a wireless local area network WLAN or other communication data networks.

The communication interface may also include a near field communication NFC interface . As used herein the phrase NFC interface generally refers to hardware and or software that is configured to contactlessly and or wirelessly send and or receive information over relatively short ranges e.g. within four inches within three feet within fifteen feet or the like . The NFC interface may include a smart card key card proximity card Bluetooth device radio frequency identification RFID tag and or reader transmitter receiver and or the like. In some embodiments the NFC interface communicates information via radio infrared IR and or optical transmissions. In some embodiments the NFC interface is configured to operate as an NFC transmitter and or as an NFC receiver e.g. an NFC reader etc. . In some embodiments the NFC interface enables the mobile communication device to operate as a mobile wallet. Also it will be understood that the NFC interface may be embedded built carried and or otherwise supported in and or on the mobile communication device . In some embodiments the NFC interface is not supported in and or on the mobile communication device but the NFC interface is otherwise operatively connected to the mobile communication device e.g. where the NFC interface is a peripheral device plugged into the mobile communication device etc. . Other apparatuses having NFC interfaces mentioned herein may be configured similarly.

The mobile communication device can have a user interface that is like other user interfaces described herein made up of one or more user output devices and or user input devices . The user output devices include a display e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD and or the like and a speaker and or other audio device which are operatively coupled to the processor . The user input devices which allow the mobile communication device to receive data from a user such as the customer may include any of a number of devices allowing the mobile communication device to receive data from a user such as a keypad keyboard touch screen touchpad microphone mouse joystick other pointer device button soft key and or other input device s . The user interface may also include a camera such as a digital camera video camera or the like.

In some embodiments the mobile communication device also includes a location determining device that can be used to determine the location of the mobile communication device . For example the location determining device may include a Global Positioning System GPS transceiver. In some embodiments the location determining device is at least partially made up of the antenna transmitter and receiver described above. For example in one embodiment triangulation of cellular signals may be used to identify the approximate location of the mobile communication device . In other embodiments the location determining device includes a proximity sensor and or transmitter such as an RFID tag that can sense or be sensed by devices known to be located proximate a merchant and or other location to determine that the mobile communication device is located proximate these known devices.

The mobile communication device further includes a power source such as a battery for powering various circuits and other devices that are used to operate the mobile communication device . Embodiments of the mobile communication device may also include a clock or other timer configured to determine and in some cases communicate actual or relative time to the processor or one or more other devices.

The mobile communication device also includes a memory operatively connected to the processor . As used herein memory includes any computer readable medium as defined herein configured to store data code and or other information. The memory may include volatile memory such as volatile Random Access Memory RAM including a cache area for the temporary storage of data. The memory may also include non volatile memory which can be embedded and or may be removable. The non volatile memory can additionally or alternatively include an electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory or the like.

The memory can store any of a number of applications which may include computer executable instructions code executed by the processor to implement the functions of the mobile communication device described herein. For example the memory may include such applications as a retail location application product selection purchase application and or indicia code reader application . It will be understood that the retail location application product selection purchase application and or indicia code reader application can be individually or collectively operable e.g. usable executable etc. to initiate perform complete and or facilitate any one or more portions of the process flow described herein.

Thus methods systems computer programs and the like have been disclosed that provide for implementing a mobile communication device such as a smart telephone or the like as a point of transaction for in store purchases such that all a customer needs to do is capture the coded indicia of products they desire i.e. scan the products with their mobile communication device as they shop and the purchase transaction will subsequently occur based on either the customer in possession of the mobile communication device being physically located in a designated area of the store or the lapse of a predetermined period of time from when the coded indicia was captured.

While the foregoing disclosure discusses illustrative embodiments it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the described aspects and or embodiments as defined by the appended claims. Furthermore although elements of the described aspects and or embodiments may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated. Additionally all or a portion of any embodiment may be utilized with all or a portion of any other embodiment unless stated otherwise.

While certain exemplary embodiments have been described and shown in the accompanying drawings it is to be understood that such embodiments are merely illustrative of and not restrictive on the broad invention and that this invention not be limited to the specific constructions and arrangements shown and described since various other changes combinations omissions modifications and substitutions in addition to those set forth in the above paragraphs are possible. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that various adaptations and modifications of the just described embodiments can be configured without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. Therefore it is to be understood that within the scope of the appended claims the invention may be practiced other than as specifically described herein.

