---

title: Electronic notification systems and methods
abstract: Described are a system and method for electronic notification. A metadata generator adds metadata including data related to a computer-related action to an electronic notification. The electronic notification configured to be received by a plurality of disparate systems. A state processing machine changes a state of the electronic notification according to the metadata. A notification modification module marks the electronic notification having the changed state, wherein the marked electronic notification is received by each of the disparate systems and is processed according to its changed state.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09338117&OS=09338117&RS=09338117
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 09338117
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130916
---
The present invention relates generally to electronic communications and more specifically to processing and controlling notifications in an application agnostic environment.

Email short message service SMS text messages or the like are often used to notify a user of an action related to a service or a computer application. For instance a computer user may receive an email message as a notification so that the user will see emails appear in his or her inbox for new items from the service or application providing an event warranting the notification. For example a user may receive an email message indicating that the user has received a voicemail message or that a blog entry has been made that includes an answer to a question posted at the blog by the user. In another example a user may receive a text message indicating that a package has been delivered at the user s home.

Often a computer user may receive an electronic notification in the form of an email message or the like only after learning of the action. Referring again to the abovementioned examples the user may receive an email message informing the user of a voicemail message package delivery etc. after the user has retrieved the voicemail message received the package and so on. An email notification delivered after the corresponding action has been performed is of little or no interest to the user. In order to clear an already processed item a user must both visit the email application as well as each interface in the application to view the items that still appear as unread. The user must then process the unread items for example open each unread message so that the items no longer appear as new or unread.

In one aspect provided is an electronic notification system comprising a metadata generator that adds metadata including data related to a computer related action to an electronic notification. The electronic notification configured to be received by a plurality of disparate systems. A state processing machine changes a state of the electronic notification according to the metadata. A notification modification module marks the electronic notification having the changed state wherein the marked electronic notification is received by each of the disparate systems and is processed according to its changed state.

In another aspect provided is a computer implemented method comprising receiving an electronic notification in response to a computer related action the electronic notification configured to be received by a plurality of disparate systems applying metadata that includes data related to the action to the electronic notification processing the metadata and changing a state of the electronic notification at each of the disparate systems in response to processing the metadata.

In another aspect provided is a computer program product comprising a computer readable storage medium having computer readable program code embodied therewith. The computer readable program code comprises computer readable program code configured to receive an electronic notification in response to a computer related action the electronic notification configured to be received by a plurality of disparate systems computer readable program code configured to apply metadata that includes data related to the action to the electronic notification computer readable program code configured to process the metadata and computer readable program code configured to change a state of the electronic notification at each of the disparate systems in response to processing the metadata.

In the following description specific details are set forth although it should be appreciated by one of ordinary skill that the systems and methods can be practiced without at least some of the details. In some instances known features or processes are not described in detail so as not to obscure the present invention.

In brief overview the systems and methods can change the state of a notification in response to an action. In particular when a user processes a notification for example an unread email message or other application list view of items the item can be changed from an unread state to a read state in all systems configured to receive and process the notification for example an electronic dashboard an email inbox an SMS message repository and so on. The systems can be disparate with respect to each other.

For example a user can create a forum topic in a discussion forum that includes a question that is sent to an email distribution list. When one user reads the question and responds with an answer to the forum topic the other recipients of the forum topic question can receive a message that indicates the question as well as the answer. Additionally the message is updated to include a social artifact indicating that the forum topic question has been answered. This can be in the form of an indicator to clarify that the question posed as indeed been answered. The importance of this message is re classified based on this information and based on user settings or rules resulting in the message being moved from a high priority view to a low priority view.

The environment can be an electronic communication environment where two or more users can exchange email messages SMS messages or other data participate in online discussion forums or blogs social networks or establish other electronic communications which can include the presentation of notifications to one or more users.

The environment includes user computers A B C generally in electronic communication with each other and or a collaboration server a voicemail system an email server and or an electronic notification server via a network . The electronic notification server can be a standalone platform or can be part of another platform such as the email server . The collaboration server can be part of an online conferencing server or related application server or be in electronic communication with an online conferencing server or related application server via the network . The network can include a public switched telephone network PSTN a mobile communications network a data network such as a local area network LAN or wide area network WAN or a combination thereof or other communication networks known to those of ordinary skill in the art.

The user computers can be desktop computers laptop computers server systems handheld devices such as personal digital assistants PDA or smartphones computer terminals or a combination thereof or other electronic devices having a display screen that presents content such as text graphics and or video to a viewer. For example user computers A and B can be desktop computers and user computer C can be a smartphone.

The user computers can include one or more systems configured to process electronic notifications for example an email message an SMS text message or other electronic communication. Each system of a user computer can include an application programming interface API for establishing a communication between the system and a source application providing an event for notification.

The electronic notification server can include a processor such as a CPU a memory and an input output I O logic for example including a network interface card NIC which communicate with each other via a data control bus and or data connector for example a peripheral component interconnect PCI bus . The I O logic can include one or more adaptors for communicating with the network .

The memory can include volatile memory for example random access memory RAM and the like and or non volatile memory for example read only memory ROM flash memory and the like. The memory can include removable and or non removable storage media implemented in accordance with methods and technologies known to those of ordinary skill in the art for storing data. Stored in the memory can include program code such as program code of an operating system OS and an electronic notification system executed by the processor .

In an embodiment the electronic notification system can modify the status of a notification in response to an action related to the notification. For example an email notification can be sent to user computer B indicating that an entry is made from user computer A to a blog provided by the collaboration server or that a voicemail message has been received for the user at the voicemail system . In another example an SMS text message can be sent to smartphone C of the blog entry made from user computer A.

In conventional environments the email notification would appear in an email inbox at user computer B or the SMS window at smartphone C having an unread state. However in cases where a user at user computer B and or smartphone C is aware of the blog entry made from user computer A such notifications are obsolete and therefore not useful to the user. In an embodiment the electronic notification system can determine whether user computer B and or smartphone C accessed the collaboration server and read the blog entry made at user computer A. If so the electronic notification system can modify the notification so that it appears in the email inbox at user computer B and or the SMS window at user computer C as having been read i.e. a read state instead of an unread state.

In other example the electronic notification system can determine whether the voicemail message for the user saved at the voicemail system has been accessed for example from a user computer . If so the electronic notification system can modify the notification generated in response to the receipt of the voicemail message so that the notification appears in the email inbox at user computer B and or the SMS window at user computer C as having been read i.e. a read state instead of an unread state.

The electronic notification system can include a metadata generator a state processing machine a notification modification module and or a communication interface . Some or all of the metadata generator the state processing machine the notification modification module and the communication interface can coexist at a single computer platform or can be separate from each other for example located on different computer platforms and in communication with each other via the network .

The metadata generator can modify an electronic notification to include metadata that is added to the notification. The metadata can include rich information related to an action for example indicating that the notification message is a forum topic question that has already been answered or that the notification message is a message that a package has been delivered. The metadata can include other information related to a notification object or the like such as an object identification time of access action taken and or user information. The metadata can be stored at the memory or other storage device for example external data storage for future processing.

The state processing machine can change a state of an electronic notification based on the metadata. For example an email message status can be changed from an unread status to a read status thereby reducing the priority of the email message with respect to a user.

The notification modification module can mark all messages related to the object associated with the electronic notification so that the other messages can be marked and moved to a different state.

The communication interface interfaces with an API provided by each system for example the email inbox etc. which can mark an object as read so that the system changes a state of the notification for example from a high priority to a low priority. The communication interface can include a presence detector that is made aware of a user s presence.

At block an action is performed. Example actions can include abovementioned examples where a voicemail message is saved at a voicemail system accessible by a user or a package tracking program is updated when a package has been delivered at a user s home.

At block a notification is generated in response to the action of block . Referring again to the abovementioned examples an email notification can be generated in response to the receipt at the voicemail system of a voicemail message for the user or in response to an update to the package tracking program indicating that the package has been delivered to the user s home.

At block metadata related to the action is added to the notification. The metadata includes information related to a notification object or the like such as an object identification time of access action taken and or user information.

At block a state of the notification can be changed in response to the metadata. For example a notification can be denotified by changing the priority of the notification from a notification that is unread to a notification that is read.

A source application outputs a notification to at least one of a plurality of systems and or . The source application can be a computer application associated with a service. Referring again to abovementioned examples the source application can be configured to generate an email message or other electronic notification when a voicemail message is received at a voicemail server or to generate a package delivery message when an application is updated to reflect that a package has been delivered to a user. The systems and can be installed at a user computer for processing electronic notifications such as email or text SMS messages. For example system can relate to an email inbox system can relate to a feed reader system can relate to a dashboard and system can relate to a mobile device application. Each system includes a user experience UX .

The notification is marked with metadata for example generated by the metadata generator . The metadata includes information related an object identifier for example a universally unique identifier UUID time of access action taken and or user information. User feedback information can include data that is sent back to the system to reflect any actions provided in metadata that are provided by the user. For example a user who has read an item can result in data being output to the service to indicate that the item has been read by the user. Since a system in accordance with some embodiments can bridge any type of technology for example illustrated herein can allow for any required feedback data. Examples can include a property setting text strings and so on. A user may add a comment or set other properties that are returned to the corresponding service to properly process the object in its native system.

Other metadata information can include an address where the receiving systems can communicate for example for calling a markobject function. Referring again to abovementioned examples the metadata can include information that the notification relates to a forum topic question that has already been answered or that a package has already been delivered. Each system can include an API that can provide the metadata information specific to the notification .

The user can perform an action at a system UX for example the dashboard UX to process the notification . The action performed at the system UX can include processing the metadata such as parameters indicating the UUID of the object. After the notification is read at the dashboard system UX the system can process the address at the source application for indicating that the notification has been read at the dashboard system UX. This feature can provide a way by which a main service can communicate with other services to set data on the object to reflect the new state for example calling a markobject function at the source application . For example where an email message is marked as read the user can read the item in email message and the core service can be called to inform the service that the item has been read. The service in turn can communicate with one or more other services such as a dashboard voice processor etc. each being called with the function to mark the object to its new state so that it reflects the new marked state.

At least one system for example the dashboard UX can make a call to the source application to determine whether this mark has been processed. For example the dashboard UX can mark an object indicating that the read action has been performed. When an object is marked in this manner the system can invoke a method that alters the status.

Another system UX for example a mobile device system UX can make a call to check if the mark has been processed. A check function provided by the API can process a list of UUIDs the address of the source application etc. In an embodiment the electronic notification system can detect a user s presence for example detecting a page reload after which the check can occur. Thus a function can be constructed and arranged as a push model where in the notification processing service calls out to each application to force the application to update its relevant objects or constructed and arranged as a pull model where a notification service or the like holds the marked state of the object. Here when a user accesses an application such as a web based dashboard the web page will reload to show the user the latest state. The reload action can trigger a call to the notification service to determine the state and properly update the rendering of the object for the user so that it reflects the new marked state.

At step the notifications displayed at the other systems can be moved to a different UX view for example a lower priority view based on the updated mark with respect to the dashboard . Each system can include a set of rules and configuration settings that establishes how messages are organized according to priority according to the processed mark.

For example when an item has been marked to a new state for example a read state systems will often reorganize displayed items to promote new unread items to a higher importance and to demote others. For example in an email inbox unread objects are often marked to distinguish the unread objects e.g. display in a bold font while read objects are marked with regular font. Other ways to indicate a level of importance can be leveraged. For example in a grouping items that are processed can be grouped in a less prominent place than a main view so it only shows things the user hasn t processed. The less prominent place can be revealed as in a more . . . link or see all action button.

Thus when the dashboard processes an unread notification the notifications at the other systems can be changed to a read state. The user can go to one or more of the system UXs where the item is identified as having a previous state of being an unread item now marked as read and visually observe from the feedback information whether the user should engage. In addition the various UXs that display this message can be configured to show the message in a high priority or move it to a lower priority view based on the feedback information.

As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art aspects of the present invention may be embodied as a system method or computer program product. Accordingly aspects of the present invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module or system. Furthermore aspects of the present invention may take the form of a computer program product embodied in one or more computer readable medium s having computer readable program code embodied thereon.

Any combination of one or more computer readable medium s may be utilized. The computer readable medium may be a computer readable signal medium or a computer readable storage medium. A computer readable storage medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable storage medium would include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM an optical storage device a magnetic storage device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. In the context of this document a computer readable storage medium may be any tangible medium that can contain or store a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

A computer readable signal medium may include a propagated data signal with computer readable program code embodied therein for example in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. Such a propagated signal may take any of a variety of forms including but not limited to electro magnetic optical or any suitable combination thereof. A computer readable signal medium may be any computer readable medium that is not a computer readable storage medium and that can communicate propagate or transport a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device. Program code embodied on a computer readable medium may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to wireless wireline optical fiber cable RF etc. or any suitable combination of the foregoing.

Computer program code for carrying out operations for aspects of the present invention may be written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The program code may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

Aspects of the present invention are described herein with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable medium that can direct a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable medium produce an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks. The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer other programmable apparatus or other devices to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide processes for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The flowchart and block diagrams in the figures illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems methods and computer program products according to various embodiments of the present invention. In this regard each block in the flowchart or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems that perform the specified functions or acts or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

While the invention has been shown and described with reference to specific embodiments it should be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and detail may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

