---

title: Selective allocation of dedicated channel (DCH) resources within a wireless communications system
abstract: In an embodiment, a UE determines to transmit a message (e.g., an alert message, a call initiation message). Based on the type of the message to be transmitted, the UE selectively transmits supplemental data configured to prompt an access network to transition the UE to a dedicated channel state (DCS). In another embodiment, an application server configured to arbitrate communication sessions between UEs receives a message for transmission to a target UE. Based on the type of the message to be transmitted to the target UE, the application server selectively transmits, to a serving access network of the target UE, supplemental data configured to prompt the serving access network to transition the target UE to the DCS. In another embodiment, the access network selectively transitions a target UE to the DCS based on whether differently sized messages are received at the access network for transmission to the target UE.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09155075&OS=09155075&RS=09155075
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 09155075
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130805
---
The present application for patent is a divisional of Non Provisional application Ser. No. 13 012 226 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 780 744 entitled SELECTIVE ALLOCATION OF DEDICATED CHANNEL DCH RESOURCES WITHIN A WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM filed on Jan. 24 2011 and still pending which in turn claims priority to Provisional Application No. 61 297 963 entitled SELECTIVE ALLOCATION OF DEDICATED CHANNEL DCH RESOURCES WITHIN A WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM filed on Jan. 25 2010 which are by the inventors of the subject application are assigned to the assignee hereof and are hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein in their entireties.

The present application for patent is related to co pending U.S. Application No. 61 301 929 entitled MANAGING DEDICATED CHANNEL RESOURCE ALLOCATION TO USER EQUIPMENT BASED ON RADIO BEARER TRAFFIC WITHIN A WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM filed on Feb. 5 2010 and also to co pending U.S. application Ser. No. 12 781 666 entitled TRANSITIONING A USER EQUIPMENT UE TO A DEDICATED CHANNEL STATE DURING SETUP OF A COMMUNICATION SESSION DURING A WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM filed on May 17 2010 each of which are assigned to the assignee hereof and each of which are expressly incorporated by reference herein in their entireties.

Embodiments of the invention relate to selectively allocating dedicated channel DCH resources within a wireless communications system.

Wireless communication systems have developed through various generations including a first generation analog wireless phone service 1G a second generation 2G digital wireless phone service including interim 2.5G and 2.75G networks and a third generation 3G high speed data Internet capable wireless service. There are presently many different types of wireless communication systems in use including Cellular and Personal Communications Service PCS systems. Examples of known cellular systems include the cellular Analog Advanced Mobile Phone System AMPS and digital cellular systems based on Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Frequency Division Multiple Access FDMA Time Division Multiple Access TDMA the Global System for Mobile access GSM variation of TDMA and newer hybrid digital communication systems using both TDMA and CDMA technologies.

The method for providing CDMA mobile communications was standardized in the United States by the Telecommunications Industry Association Electronic Industries Association in TIA EIA IS 95 A entitled Mobile Station Base Station Compatibility Standard for Dual Mode Wideband Spread Spectrum Cellular System referred to herein as IS 95. Combined AMPS CDMA systems are described in TIA EIA Standard IS 98. Other communications systems are described in the IMT 2000 UM or International Mobile Telecommunications System 2000 Universal Mobile Telecommunications System standards covering what are referred to as wideband CDMA W CDMA CDMA2000 such as CDMA2000 1xEV DO standards for example or TD SCDMA.

In W CDMA wireless communication systems user equipments UEs receive signals from fixed position Node Bs also referred to as cell sites or cells that support communication links or service within particular geographic regions adjacent to or surrounding the base stations. Node Bs provide entry points to an access network AN radio access network RAN which is generally a packet data network using standard Internet Engineering Task Force IETF based protocols that support methods for differentiating traffic based on Quality of Service QoS requirements. Therefore the Node Bs generally interact with UEs through an over the air interface and with the RAN through Internet Protocol IP network data packets.

In wireless telecommunication systems Push to talk PTT capabilities are becoming popular with service sectors and consumers. PTT can support a dispatch voice service that operates over standard commercial wireless infrastructures such as W CDMA CDMA FDMA TDMA GSM etc. In a dispatch model communication between endpoints e.g. UEs occurs within virtual groups wherein the voice of one talker is transmitted to one or more listeners. A single instance of this type of communication is commonly referred to as a dispatch call or simply a PTT call. A PTT call is an instantiation of a group which defines the characteristics of a call. A group in essence is defined by a member list and associated information such as group name or group identification.

In an embodiment a UE determines to transmit a message e.g. an alert message a call initiation message . Based on the type of the message to be transmitted the UE selectively transmits supplemental data configured to prompt an access network to transition the UE to a dedicated channel state DCS . In another embodiment an application server configured to arbitrate communication sessions between UEs receives a message for transmission to a target UE. Based on the type of the message to be transmitted to the target UE the application server selectively transmits to a serving access network of the target UE supplemental data configured to prompt the serving access network to transition the target UE to the DCS. In another embodiment the access network selectively transitions a target UE to the DCS based on whether differently sized messages are received at the access network for transmission to the target UE.

Aspects of the invention are disclosed in the following description and related drawings directed to specific embodiments of the invention. Alternate embodiments may be devised without departing from the scope of the invention. Additionally well known elements of the invention will not be described in detail or will be omitted so as not to obscure the relevant details of the invention.

The words exemplary and or example are used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any embodiment described herein as exemplary and or example is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments. Likewise the term embodiments of the invention does not require that all embodiments of the invention include the discussed feature advantage or mode of operation.

Further many embodiments are described in terms of sequences of actions to be performed by for example elements of a computing device. It will be recognized that various actions described herein can be performed by specific circuits e.g. application specific integrated circuits ASICs by program instructions being executed by one or more processors or by a combination of both. Additionally these sequence of actions described herein can be considered to be embodied entirely within any form of computer readable storage medium having stored therein a corresponding set of computer instructions that upon execution would cause an associated processor to perform the functionality described herein. Thus the various aspects of the invention may be embodied in a number of different forms all of which have been contemplated to be within the scope of the claimed subject matter. In addition for each of the embodiments described herein the corresponding form of any such embodiments may be described herein as for example logic configured to perform the described action.

A High Data Rate HDR subscriber station referred to herein as user equipment UE may be mobile or stationary and may communicate with one or more access points APs which may be referred to as Node Bs. A UE transmits and receives data packets through one or more of the Node Bs to a Radio Network Controller RNC . The Node Bs and RNC are parts of a network called a radio access network RAN . A radio access network can transport voice and data packets between multiple UEs.

The radio access network may be further connected to additional networks outside the radio access network such core network including specific carrier related servers and devices and connectivity to other networks such as a corporate intranet the Internet public switched telephone network PSTN a Serving General Packet Radio Services GPRS Support Node SGSN a Gateway GPRS Support Node GGSN and may transport voice and data packets between each UE and such networks. A UE that has established an active traffic channel connection with one or more Node Bs may be referred to as an active UE and can be referred to as being in a traffic state. A UE that is in the process of establishing an active traffic channel TCH connection with one or more Node Bs can be referred to as being in a connection setup state. A UE may be any data device that communicates through a wireless channel or through a wired channel. A UE may further be any of a number of types of devices including but not limited to PC card compact flash device external or internal modem or wireless or wireline phone. The communication link through which the UE sends signals to the Node B s is called an uplink channel e.g. a reverse traffic channel a control channel an access channel etc. . The communication link through which Node B s send signals to a UE is called a downlink channel e.g. a paging channel a control channel a broadcast channel a forward traffic channel etc. . As used herein the term traffic channel TCH can refer to either an uplink reverse or downlink forward traffic channel.

Referring back to the components of the wireless communications system and interrelation of the elements of the exemplary embodiments of the invention are not limited to the configuration illustrated. System is merely exemplary and can include any system that allows remote UEs such as wireless client computing devices to communicate over the air between and among each other and or between and among components connected via the air interface and RAN including without limitation core network the Internet PSTN SGSN GGSN and or other remote servers.

The RAN controls messages typically sent as data packets sent to a RNC . The RNC is responsible for signaling establishing and tearing down bearer channels i.e. data channels between a Serving General Packet Radio Services GPRS Support Node SGSN and the UEs . If link layer encryption is enabled the RNC also encrypts the content before forwarding it over the air interface . The function of the RNC is well known in the art and will not be discussed further for the sake of brevity. The core network may communicate with the RNC by a network the Internet and or a public switched telephone network PSTN . Alternatively the RNC may connect directly to the Internet or external network. Typically the network or Internet connection between the core network and the RNC transfers data and the PSTN transfers voice information. The RNC can be connected to multiple Node Bs . In a similar manner to the core network the RNC is typically connected to the Node Bs by a network the Internet and or PSTN for data transfer and or voice information. The Node Bs can broadcast data messages wirelessly to the UEs such as cellular telephone . The Node Bs RNC and other components may form the RAN as is known in the art. However alternate configurations may also be used and the invention is not limited to the configuration illustrated. For example in another embodiment the functionality of the RNC and one or more of the Node Bs may be collapsed into a single hybrid module having the functionality of both the RNC and the Node B s .

Generally GPRS is a protocol used by Global System for Mobile communications GSM phones for transmitting Internet Protocol IP packets. The GPRS Core Network e.g. the GGSN and one or more SGSNs is the centralized part of the GPRS system and also provides support for W CDMA based 3G networks. The GPRS core network is an integrated part of the GSM core network provides mobility management session management and transport for IP packet services in GSM and W CDMA networks.

The GPRS Tunneling Protocol GTP is the defining IP protocol of the GPRS core network. The GTP is the protocol which allows end users e.g. access terminals of a GSM or W CDMA network to move from place to place while continuing to connect to the internet as if from one location at the GGSN . This is achieved transferring the subscriber s data from the subscriber s current SSGN to the GGSN which is handling the subscriber s session.

Three forms of GTP are used by the GPRS core network namely i GTP U ii GTP C and iii GTP GTP Prime . GTP U is used for transfer of user data in separated tunnels for each packet data protocol PDP context. GTP C is used for control signaling e.g. setup and deletion of PDP contexts verification of GSN reach ability updates or modifications such as when a subscriber moves from one SGSN to another etc. . GTP is used for transfer of charging data from GSNs to a charging function.

Referring to the GGSN acts as an interface between the GPRS backbone network not shown and the external packet data network . The GGSN extracts the packet data with associated packet data protocol PDP format e.g. IP or PPP from the GPRS packets coming from the SGSN and sends the packets out on a corresponding packet data network. In the other direction the incoming data packets are directed by the GGSN to the SGSN which manages and controls the Radio Access Bearer RAB of the destination UE served by the RAN . Thereby the GGSN stores the current SGSN address of the target UE and his her profile in its location register e.g. within a PDP context . The GGSN is responsible for IP address assignment and is the default router for the connected UE. The GGSN also performs authentication and charging functions.

The SGSN is representative of one of many SGSNs within the core network in an example. Each SGSN is responsible for the delivery of data packets from and to the UEs within an associated geographical service area. The tasks of the SGSN includes packet routing and transfer mobility management e.g. attach detach and location management logical link management and authentication and charging functions. The location register of the SGSN stores location information e.g. current cell current VLR and user profiles e.g. IMSI PDP address es used in the packet data network of all GPRS users registered with the SGSN for example within one or more PDP contexts for each user or UE. Thus SGSNs are responsible for i de tunneling downlink GTP packets from the GGSN ii uplink tunnel IP packets toward the GGSN iii carrying out mobility management as UEs move between SGSN service areas and iv billing mobile subscribers. As will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art aside from i iv SGSNs configured for GSM EDGE networks have slightly different functionality as compared to SGSNs configured for W CDMA networks.

The RAN e.g. or UTRAN in Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS system architecture communicates with the SGSN via an Iu interface with a transmission protocol such as Frame Relay or IP. The SGSN communicates with the GGSN via a Gn interface which is an IP based interface between SGSN and other SGSNs not shown and internal GGSNs and uses the GTP protocol defined above e.g. GTP U GTP C GTP etc. . While not shown in the Gn interface is also used by the Domain Name System DNS . The GGSN is connected to a Public Data Network PDN not shown and in turn to the Internet via a Gi interface with IP protocols either directly or through a Wireless Application Protocol WAP gateway.

The PDP context is a data structure present on both the SGSN and the GGSN which contains a particular UE s communication session information when the UE has an active GPRS session. When a UE wishes to initiate a GPRS communication session the UE must first attach to the SGSN and then activate a PDP context with the GGSN . This allocates a PDP context data structure in the SGSN that the subscriber is currently visiting and the GGSN serving the UE s access point.

Referring to UEs and . . . N are illustrated as wireless cell phones UE is illustrated as a wireless tablet PC and UE is illustrated as a wired desktop station. However in other embodiments it will be appreciated that the wireless communication system can connect to any type of UE and the examples illustrated in are not intended to limit the types of UEs that may be implemented within the system. Also while the AAA the provisioning server the IMS SIP registration server and the application server are each illustrated as structurally separate servers one or more of these servers may be consolidated in at least one embodiment of the invention.

Further referring to the application server is illustrated as including a plurality of media control complexes MCCs . . . N B and a plurality of regional dispatchers . . . N A. Collectively the regional dispatchers A and MCCs B are included within the application server which in at least one embodiment can correspond to a distributed network of servers that collectively functions to arbitrate communication sessions e.g. half duplex group communication sessions via IP unicasting and or IP multicasting protocols within the wireless communication system . For example because the communication sessions arbitrated by the application server can theoretically take place between UEs located anywhere within the system multiple regional dispatchers A and MCCs are distributed to reduce latency for the arbitrated communication sessions e.g. so that a MCC in North America is not relaying media back and forth between session participants located in China . Thus when reference is made to the application server it will be appreciated that the associated functionality can be enforced by one or more of the regional dispatchers A and or one or more of the MCCs B. The regional dispatchers A are generally responsible for any functionality related to establishing a communication session e.g. handling signaling messages between the UEs scheduling and or sending announce messages etc. whereas the MCCs B are responsible for hosting the communication session for the duration of the call instance including conducting an in call signaling and an actual exchange of media during an arbitrated communication session.

Referring to a UE here a wireless device such as a cellular telephone has a platform that can receive and execute software applications data and or commands transmitted from the RAN that may ultimately come from the core network the Internet and or other remote servers and networks. The platform can include a transceiver operably coupled to an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other processor microprocessor logic circuit or other data processing device. The ASIC or other processor executes the application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident programs in the memory of the wireless device. The memory can be comprised of read only or random access memory RAM and ROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. The platform also can include a local database that can hold applications not actively used in memory . The local database is typically a flash memory cell but can be any secondary storage device as known in the art such as magnetic media EEPROM optical media tape soft or hard disk or the like. The internal platform components can also be operably coupled to external devices such as antenna display push to talk button and keypad among other components as is known in the art.

Accordingly an embodiment of the invention can include a UE including the ability to perform the functions described herein. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art the various logic elements can be embodied in discrete elements software modules executed on a processor or any combination of software and hardware to achieve the functionality disclosed herein. For example ASIC memory API and local database may all be used cooperatively to load store and execute the various functions disclosed herein and thus the logic to perform these functions may be distributed over various elements. Alternatively the functionality could be incorporated into one discrete component. Therefore the features of the UE in are to be considered merely illustrative and the invention is not limited to the illustrated features or arrangement.

The wireless communication between the UE or and the RAN can be based on different technologies such as code division multiple access CDMA W CDMA time division multiple access TDMA frequency division multiple access FDMA Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing OFDM the Global System for Mobile Communications GSM or other protocols that may be used in a wireless communications network or a data communications network. For example in W CDMA the data communication is typically between the client device Node B s and the RNC . The RNC can be connected to multiple data networks such as the core network PSTN the Internet a virtual private network a SGSN a GGSN and the like thus allowing the UE or access to a broader communication network. As discussed in the foregoing and known in the art voice transmission and or data can be transmitted to the UEs from the RAN using a variety of networks and configurations. Accordingly the illustrations provided herein are not intended to limit the embodiments of the invention and are merely to aid in the description of aspects of embodiments of the invention.

Below embodiments of the invention are generally described in accordance with W CDMA protocols and associated terminology e.g. such as UE instead of mobile station MS mobile unit MU access terminal AT etc. RNC contrasted with BSC in EV DO or Node B contrasted with BS or MPT BS in EV DO etc. . However it will be readily appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art how the embodiments of the invention can be applied in conjunction with wireless communication protocols other than W CDMA.

In a conventional server arbitrated communication session e.g. via half duplex protocols full duplex protocols VoIP a group session over IP unicast a group session over IP multicast a push to talk PTT session a push to transfer PTX session etc. a session or call originator sends a request to initiate a communication session to the application server which then forwards a call announcement message to the RAN for transmission to one or more targets of the call.

User Equipments UEs in a Universal Mobile Telecommunications Service UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access Network UTRAN e.g. the RAN may be in either an idle mode or a radio resource control RRC connected mode.

Based on UE mobility and activity while in a RRC connected mode the RAN may direct UEs to transition between a number of RRC sub states namely CELL PCH URA PCH CELL FACH and CELL DCH states which may be characterized as follows 

Accordingly URA PCH State or CELL PCH State corresponds to a dormant state where the UE periodically wakes up to check a paging indicator channel PICH and if needed the associated downlink paging channel PCH and it may enter CELL FACH state to send a Cell Update message for the following event cell reselection periodical cell update uplink data transmission paging response re entered service area. In CELL FACH State the UE may send messages on the random access channel RACH and may monitor a forward access channel FACH . The FACH carries downlink communication from the RAN and is mapped to a secondary common control physical channel S CCPCH . From CELL FACH State the UE may enter CELL DCH state after a traffic channel TCH has been obtained based on messaging in CELL FACH state. A table showing conventional dedicated traffic channel DTCH to transport channel mappings in radio resource control RRC connected mode is in Table 1 as follows 

Communication sessions arbitrated by the application server in at least one embodiment may be associated with delay sensitive or high priority applications and or services. For example the application server may correspond to a PTT server in at least one embodiment and it will be appreciated that an important criterion in PTT sessions is fast session set up as well as maintaining a given level of Quality of Service QoS throughout the session.

As discussed above in RRC connected mode a given UE can operate in either CELL DCH or CELL FACH to exchange data with the RAN through which the given UE can reach the application server . As noted above in CELL DCH state uplink downlink Radio bearers will consume dedicated physical channel resources e.g. UL DCH DL DCH E DCH F DPCH HS DPCCH etc . Some of these resources are even consumed for high speed shared channel i.e. HSDPA operations. In CELL FACH state uplink downlink Radio bearers will be mapped to common transport channels RACH FACH . Thereby in CELL FACH state there is no consumption of dedicated physical channel resources.

Conventionally the RAN transitions the given UE between CELL FACH and CELL DCH based substantially on traffic volume which is either measured at the RAN e.g. at the serving RNC at the RAN or reported from the given UE itself in one or more measurement reports. However because a substantial amount of traffic that travels to or from the application server is known to be relatively important e.g. delay sensitive high QoS etc. for certain RABs e.g. a RAB for VoIP or PTT the RAN can be configured to automatically transition a UE to CELL DCH state whenever the RAN either i receives one or more data packets on the downlink for the specified RAB or the corresponding RB from the application server intended for the UE or ii receives one or more data packets from the UE on the uplink for the specified RB intended for the application server .

However transitions to CELL DCH state are associated with more overhead e.g. set up time resources consumed etc. than CELL FACH state. While preemptively or automatically causing a UE to transition to CELL DCH state in response to traffic between the UE and the application server can improve performance in the event that a significant amount of messaging is exchanged between the UE and the application server afterwards the overhead can be wasteful if the message triggering the CELL DCH state transition was simply an alert message or an isolated message that is not a precursor to a communication session. For example these types of alert messages can be one way one time communication messages except for potential re transmissions of the alert messages and ACKs to the alert messages that do not necessarily lead to subsequent messaging from the transmitting or originating UE.

Examples of automatically transitioning UEs to CELL DCH state responsive to UE traffic to from the application server are described with respect to below.

A process by which a given UE can originate a server arbitrated communication session is described with respect to . In particular and or illustrates a server arbitrated session setup process wherein the system corresponds to a Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS that uses Wideband Code Division Multiple Access W CDMA . However it will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art how and or can be directed to communication sessions in accordance with protocols other than W CDMA. Further certain signaling messages referred to herein are described whereby the application server corresponds to a PTT server. However it will be appreciated that other embodiments can be directed to servers providing services other than PTT to UEs of the system e.g. push to transfer PTX services VoIP services group text sessions etc. .

Referring to assume that a given UE originating UE is operating in either URA PCH or CELL PCH state A and that the given UE performs a cell update procedure A and A and thereby transitions to CELL FACH state after the cell update procedure A. While in CELL FACH state the given UE determines to initiate a communication session to be arbitrated by the application server e.g. in response to a user of the given UE pressing a PTT button and thereby the given UE transmits a call request message on the RACH to the RAN A. The RAN receives the call request message on the RACH from the given UE and forwards the call request message to the application server A.

The RAN also evaluates the call request message e.g. by checking an associated RB identifier ID and determines that the packet is associated with the RB that requires high QoS e.g. low delay and low jitter in A. The determination of the RAN e.g. specifically the serving RNC of the RAN that the given UE is sending a packet on the RAB to the application server functions to trigger a transition of the given UE to CELL DCH state. Accordingly the RAN transmits a channel reconfiguration message to the given UE over the FACH in order to facilitate the given UE s transition from CELL FACH to CELL DCH state A. As will be appreciated channel reconfiguration messages generally correspond to a Radio Bearer RB Reconfiguration message a Transport Channel TCH Reconfiguration message or a Physical Channel PhyCH or L Reconfiguration message based on whether the Radio Bearer Transport Channel or Physical Channel of the radio bearer of the given UE to be reconfigured.

Upon receiving the channel reconfiguration message of A the given UE transitions from the CELL FACH state to the CELL DCH state A. While not shown in the transition of A may include decoding the channel reconfiguration message an L synchronization procedure sending a cell update confirm response message e.g. RB Reconfiguration Complete message etc. etc.

While is directed to how an originating UE can set up a communication session with the application server illustrates an example of how the originating UE can request that the application server send an alert message to at least one target UE. As noted above alert messages are not necessarily precursors to communication sessions but rather can simply be configured to check the status of the at least one target UE send a message that does not require a response to the at least one target UE e.g. a notification or alert etc.

Referring to assume that a given UE originating UE is operating in either URA PCH or CELL PCH state B and that the given UE performs a cell update procedure B and B and thereby transitions to CELL FACH state B. While in CELL FACH state the given UE determines to request that an alert message be sent to at least one target UE and thereby the given UE transmits an alert message or alert message request message on the RACH to the RAN B. The RAN receives the alert message on the RACH from the given UE and forwards the alert message to the application server B.

Similar to A of in B the RAN evaluates the alert message e.g. by checking the RB ID of the alert message and determines that the packet is associated with the RB that requires high QoS i.e. low delay and low jitter . Based on this determination the RAN sends a channel reconfiguration e.g. RB Reconfiguration message to the given UE functions to trigger a transition of the given UE to CELL DCH state B. Upon receiving the cell update confirm message of B the given UE transitions from the CELL FACH state to the CELL DCH state B as in A . While not shown in the transition of B may include decoding the channel reconfiguration message an L synchronization procedure sending a cell update confirm response message e.g. RB Reconfiguration Complete message etc. etc.

While are related to a transition of an originating UE to CELL DCH state responsive to traffic between the originating UE and the application server are directed to transitions of a target UE to CELL DCH state when the application server has data to send to the target UE.

Referring to assume that the application server has been requested to initiate a communication session to a given UE target UE and that the target UE is operating in either URA PCH state or CELL PCH state C. Accordingly the application server sends a call announce message to the RAN for transmission to the target UE C and the RAN pages the target UE C. Next the target UE transitions to CELL FACH state C and the target UE sends a cell update message to the RAN over the RACH C.

The RAN evaluates the call announce message and determines that the packet is associated with the RB that requires high QoS i.e. low delay and low jitter C. This determination of the RAN e.g. specifically the serving RNC of the RAN triggers a transition of the target UE to CELL DCH state by reconfiguring the Radio Bearer Transport Channel or Physical Channel which is indicated in the cell update confirm message. Accordingly the RAN transmits the cell update confirm message to the target UE over the FACH C to transition the target UE to CELL DCH state.

Upon receiving the cell update confirm message of C the target UE transitions from the CELL FACH state to the CELL DCH state C. Upon transitioning to CELL DCH state in C the target UE transmits a cell update confirm response message e.g. a Radio Bearer Reconfiguration Complete message Transport Channel Reconfiguration Complete message and Physical Channel Reconfiguration Complete message on either the reverse link DCH or E DCH C after which the RAN transmits the call announce message to the target UE over the DCH or HS DSCH e.g. whichever is allocated in the cell update confirm message C.

While is directed to how the application server can set up a communication session with the target UE illustrates an example of how the application server can send an alert message to the target UE. As noted above alert messages are not necessarily precursors to communication sessions but rather can simply be configured to check the status of the at least one target UE send a message that does not require a response to the at least one target UE e.g. a notification or alert etc.

Referring to assume that the application server has been requested to send an alert message to a given UE target UE and that the target UE is operating in either URA PCH state or CELL PCH state D. Accordingly the application server sends an alert message to the RAN for transmission to the target UE D and the RAN pages the target UE D. Next the target UE transitions to CELL FACH state D and the target UE sends a cell update message to the RAN over the RACH D.

The RAN also evaluates the alert message and determines that the packet i.e. alert message is associated with the RB that requires high QoS i.e. low delay and low jitter D. The determination of the RAN e.g. specifically the serving RNC of the RAN triggers a transition of the target UE to CELL DCH state by reconfiguring the Radio Bearer Transport Channel or Physical Channel which is indicated in the cell update confirm message. Accordingly the RAN transmits a cell update confirm message e.g. a RB Reconfiguration message to the target UE over the FACH in order to facilitate the target UE s transition from CELL FACH to CELL DCH state D.

Upon receiving the cell update confirm message of D the target UE transitions from the CELL FACH state to the CELL DCH state D as in C . Upon transitioning to CELL DCH state in D the target UE transmits a cell update confirm response message e.g. a Radio Bearer Reconfiguration Complete message Transport Channel Reconfiguration Complete message and Physical Channel Reconfiguration Complete message on either the reverse link DCH or E DCH D after which the RAN transmits the call alert message to the target UE over the DCH or HS DSCH e.g. whichever is allocated in the cell update confirm message D.

While are directed to examples whereby the target UE is initially in URA PCH or CELL PCH state it will be appreciated that the target UE could also be in CELL FACH state when the RAN receives the application server s request to transmit data e.g. the call announce message in or the alert message in to the target UE. In the case where the target UE is already in CELL FACH state it will be appreciated that the page and cell update messages are not needed e.g. C through C of or D through D of can be omitted and the RAN can simply transition the UE to CELL DCH by sending the channel reconfiguration message e.g. Radio Bearer Reconfiguration Transport Channel Reconfiguration or Physical Channel Reconfiguration message as in C of or D of .

As will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art even though preemptive transitions of a given UE to CELL DCH state responsive to any traffic between the given UE and the application server can be beneficial in certain scenarios in the case of alert messages the overhead may cause degradation of performance in the system and or an unnecessary waste of system resources. Accordingly embodiments of the invention are directed to selectively transitioning a given UE in communication with the application server to CELL DCH state while still ensuring that traffic associated with communication sessions prompts transitions of the given UE to CELL DCH state.

Referring to the network communication entity determines whether to transmit data to another network communication entity A. For example the determination of A can correspond to an originating UE determining whether to send a call request message to the application server to initiate a communication session with at least one target UE. In another example the determination of A can correspond to the application server determining whether to send data such as a call announce message announcing a communication session to at least one target UE. In yet another example the determination of A can correspond to a target UE having data e.g. an announce ACK back to the application server after receiving the announce message. Of course in other embodiments the determination of A can correspond to other types of data for transmission.

If the network communication entity determines not to send data in A no data is transmitted. Alternatively if the network communication entity determines to send data in A the data is transmitted in A. Next the network communication entity determines whether to set up a DCH for a given UE associated with the data transmission by transitioning the UE to CELL DCH state A. For example if the network communication entity performing the process of is the originating UE or target UE then the given UE corresponds to the UE performing the process of such that A corresponds to a determination of whether the network communication entity itself should transition to CELL DCH state. In another example if the network communication entity performing the process of is the application server then the given UE corresponds to the target UE for which the data transmission of A is intended such that A corresponds to a determination of whether to transition the target UE to CELL DCH state.

If the network communication entity determines not to transition the given UE to CELL DCH state in A the process of returns to A and waits for a subsequent data transmission from the network communication entity. Alternatively if the network communication entity determines to transition the given UE to CELL DCH state in A then the network communication entity determines to transmit a dummy packet that has a size e.g. a data payload that is greater than or equal to a given size threshold that is expected to prompt the RAN to transition the given UE to CELL DCH state A. If the network communication entity is a UE the determination of A will cause the UE to send a measurement report indicative of the traffic volume of the dummy packet which will prompt the RAN to transition the UE to CELL DCH state. If the network communication entity is the application server sending the dummy packet to the UE will cause the RAN to detect a large packet with a size is greater than the RRC state transition threshold to CELL DCH which will then cause the RAN to transition the UE to CELL DCH state.

For example the given size threshold can correspond to an Event Traffic Volume Measurement TVM threshold that is used by the RAN for making CELL DCH state transition decisions. In other words when the RAN receives a measurement report message stating the Traffic Volume is greater than the Event threshold the RAN will transition the UE that is transmitting or receiving the data packet to CELL DCH state. Accordingly the network communication entity can use the dummy packet to trigger the CELL DCH transition selectively in the embodiment of . Alternatively the dummy packet of A can be transmitted by the application server to trigger the RAN to transition a target UE of the data transmission to CELL DCH state. In a further example discussed below in more detail a fake measurement report can be sent in A such that a measurement report indicating traffic volume above the Event TVM threshold is sent to the RAN without a dummy packet actually being sent.

Referring to assume that a given UE originating UE is operating in CELL FACH state C. While in CELL FACH state the given UE determines to initiate a communication session to be arbitrated by the application server e.g. in response to a user of the given UE pressing a PTT button C and thereby the given UE transmits a call request message on the RACH to the RAN C. The RAN receives the call request message on the RACH from the given UE and forwards the call request message to the application server C.

In the embodiment of it may be assumed that the determination by the given UE to initiate the communication session in C corresponds to a determination by the given UE to transmit data as in A of and also to transition itself to CELL DCH state as in A of . Accordingly the given UE further determines to transmit a dummy packet with a size greater than the given size threshold which triggers the UE to generate a measurement report message reporting Event C. The RAN receives the measurement report message e.g. as in B of and determines to transition the given UE into CELL DCH state based on the uplink traffic or measurement report message in this case indicating that the given UE s traffic volume for transmission is above the given size threshold C e.g. as in B of . Accordingly the RAN transmits a channel reconfiguration message e.g. a RB Reconfiguration message on the FACH to facilitate the given UE s transition from CELL FACH to CELL DCH state C e.g. as in B of . Upon receiving the cell update confirm message of C the given UE transitions from the CELL FACH state to the CELL DCH state C. While not shown in the transition of C may include decoding the channel reconfiguration message an L synchronization procedure etc. The UE sends send a channel reconfiguration complete message e.g. RB Reconfiguration Complete message etc. C and then sends the dummy packet C.

Alternatively the originating UE can generate a fake measurement report message without actually sending the dummy packet. In this alternative embodiment C through C are performed as shown in but the dummy packet transmission of C is then omitted. Thus as the dummy packet is primarily useful for generating a measurement report message avoiding radio resource consumption for transmitting the dummy packet can increase the efficiency of the process of . In this case at the time a fake measurement report is generated the amount of traffic volume is not greater than the threshold for Event . However the UE generates the fake measurement report message to include a false indication of traffic volume that functions to request transition of itself to CELL DCH state.

Further while not shown explicitly in the application server could also trigger the originating UE s transition into CELL DCH state by transmitting a dummy packet back to the originating UE. For example upon receipt of the call request message the application server can determine to accept the requested session and send a dummy packet back to the originating UE to trigger the RAN to transition the originating UE to CELL DCH state.

Referring to assume that a given UE originating UE is operating in CELL FACH state D. While in CELL FACH state the given UE determines to request that an alert message be sent to at least one target UE D and thereby the given UE transmits an alert message or alert message request message on the RACH to the RAN D. The RAN receives the alert message on the RACH from the given UE and forwards the alert message to the application server D.

In the embodiment of it may be assumed that the determination by the given UE to send the alert message in D corresponds to a determination by the given UE to transmit data as in A of without transitioning itself to CELL DCH state as in A of . Accordingly neither a dummy packet nor a measurement report message indicating an Event condition is transmitted by the given UE and the RAN thereby does not determine to transition the given UE into CELL DCH state based on the uplink traffic because the alert message by itself is not above the given size threshold D e.g. as in B of and no measurement report message reporting Event will be sent. Thus the given UE is not transitioned from the CELL FACH state to the CELL DCH state D.

Referring to assume that the application server has been requested to initiate a communication session to a given UE target UE and that the given UE is operating in either URA PCH state or CELL PCH state E. Accordingly the application server determines to send a call announce message to the given UE and also to transition the given UE to CELL DCH state E. As will be appreciated the determination of E corresponds to a determination to transmit data as in A of and also to transition the given UE i.e. the target UE in this case to CELL DCH state as in A of .

Accordingly the application server sends a call announce message to the RAN for transmission to the target UE E and the RAN pages the target UE E. The application server further transmits a dummy packet in E with a size greater than the given size threshold e.g. as in A of . Upon receiving and decoding the page message from E the target UE transitions to CELL FACH state E and the target UE transmits a cell update message on the RACH to the RAN E.

In E after the RAN receives the dummy packet e.g. as in B of the RAN determines to transition the given UE into CELL DCH state based on the downlink traffic or dummy packet in this case being above the given size threshold. In this case the determination of E is responsive to an analysis by the RAN of the size of the dummy packet and not a measurement report from the UE that is sent responsive to receipt of or a determination to transmit the dummy packet. Accordingly the RAN transmits a cell update confirm message e.g. a RB Reconfiguration message on the FACH to facilitate the given UE s transition from CELL FACH to CELL DCH state E e.g. as in B of . Upon receiving the cell update confirm message of E the given UE transitions from the CELL FACH state to the CELL DCH state E after which the target UE sends a cell update confirm response message on the DCH or E DCH to the RAN E and the RAN sends the call announce message and dummy packet to the target UE on the downlink DCH or HS DSCH E and E.

Referring to assume that the application server has been requested to send an alert message to a given UE target UE and that the given UE is operating in either URA PCH state or CELL PCH state F. Accordingly the application server determines to send the alert message to the given UE F. As will be appreciated because a DCH is not desirable if the application server only has an alert message to send to the given UE the determination of F corresponds to a determination to transmit data as in A of without transitioning the given UE i.e. the target UE in this case to CELL DCH state as in A of .

Accordingly the application server sends the alert message to the RAN for transmission to the target UE F and the RAN pages the target UE F. Upon receiving and decoding the page message from F the target UE transitions to CELL FACH state F and the target UE transmits a cell update message on the RACH to the RAN F.

As will be appreciated a dummy packet is not transmitted by the application server and the RAN does not determine to transition the given UE into CELL DCH state based on the downlink traffic because the alert message by itself is not above the given size threshold F e.g. as in B of . Thus the given UE is not transitioned from the CELL FACH state to the CELL DCH state. As such the RAN transmits a cell update confirm message on the FACH that is not configured to trigger a transition of the target UE to CELL DCH state i.e. RRC state CELL FACH F and the target UE remains in CELL FACH state F. The target UE transmits a cell update confirm response message on the RACH F and the alert message is then sent to the target UE on the FACH F.

While are directed to examples whereby the target UE is initially in URA PCH or CELL PCH state it will be appreciated that the target UE could also be in CELL FACH state when the RAN receives the application server s request to transmit data e.g. the call announce message in or the alert message in to the target UE. In the case where the target UE is already in CELL FACH state it will be appreciated that blocks E and E through E of and or blocks F through F of can be omitted.

Further while not shown explicitly in the target UE could also trigger its own transition into CELL DCH state by transmitting its own dummy packet. For example upon receipt of the call announce message the target UE can determine to accept the announced session and send an announce ACK. The announce ACK will typically be below the given size threshold such that the target UE can further send the dummy packet to facilitate its transition to CELL DCH state e.g. because the dummy packet with a size above the Event threshold will trigger the UE s transmission of a measurement report that will result in the RAN transitioning the UE to CELL DCH state .

Further while not shown explicitly in the target UE could also trigger its own transition into CELL DCH state by transmitting a fake measurement message. For example upon receipt of the call announce message the target UE can determine to accept the announced session and send an announce ACK. The announce ACK will typically be below the given size threshold such that the target UE can further generate a fake measurement report message and send it to the RAN to facilitate its transition to CELL DCH state. Thus even when no dummy packet is actually sent the UE can send a measurement report indicating that the UE has a dummy packet sized amount of data to send so as to prompt its own transition to CELL DCH state.

Referring to the network communication entity determines whether to transmit data to another network communication entity A. For example the determination of A can correspond to an originating UE determining whether to send a call request message to the application server to initiate a communication session with at least one target UE. In another example the determination of A can correspond to the application server determining whether to send data such as a call announce message announcing a communication session to at least one target UE. In yet another example the determination of A can correspond to a target UE having data e.g. an announce ACK back to the application server after receiving the announce message. Of course in other embodiments the determination of A can correspond to other types of data for transmission.

If the network communication entity determines not to send data in A no data is transmitted. Alternatively if the network communication entity determines to send data in A the network communication entity determines whether to set up a DCH for a given UE associated with the data transmission by transitioning the UE to CELL DCH state A. For example if the network communication entity performing the process of is the originating UE or target UE then the given UE corresponds to the UE performing the process of such that A corresponds to a determination of whether the network communication entity itself should transition to CELL DCH state. In another example if the network communication entity performing the process of is the application server then the given UE corresponds to the target UE for which the data transmission is intended such that A corresponds to a determination of whether to transition the target UE to CELL DCH state.

If the network communication entity determines not to transition the given UE to CELL DCH state in A the process of advances to A and the data is transmitted from the network communication entity. Alternatively if the network communication entity determines to transition the given UE to CELL DCH state in A then the network communication entity configures a header portion of the data transmission to request transition of the given UE to CELL DCH state A. The header portion can be of any layer that the RAN is configured to read. In an example the configuration of A can correspond to setting a diffserv code point DSCP value within the header portion of an IP packet to a predetermined bit setting that functions to request the RAN to transition the given UE to CELL DCH state. In other words when the RAN receives a data packet with a DSCP value set to the predetermined bit setting the RAN will transition the UE that is transmitting or receiving the data packet to CELL DCH state. Accordingly the network communication entity can use the DSCP field in the packet header to trigger the CELL DCH transition selectively in the embodiment of . Accordingly after the configuration of A the network communication entity transmits the configured data in A.

Referring to assume that a given UE originating UE is operating in CELL FACH state C. While in CELL FACH state the given UE determines to initiate a communication session to be arbitrated by the application server e.g. in response to a user of the given UE pressing a PTT button C. In the embodiment of it may be assumed that the determination by the given UE to initiate the communication session in C corresponds to a determination by the given UE to transmit data as in A of and also to transition itself to CELL DCH state as in A of . Thereby the given UE configures a header layer portion e.g. a DSCP field or value of a call request message to prompt the RAN to transition the given UE to CELL DCH state C. Accordingly the given UE transmits the configured call request message on the RACH to the RAN C. The RAN receives the configured call request message on the RACH from the given UE and forwards the call request message e.g. with the same configured header portion or a differently configured header portion to the application server C.

The RAN also evaluates the header portion e.g. the DSCP field of the configured call request message e.g. as in B of and determines to transition the given UE into CELL DCH state based on the uplink traffic or data packet having a header portion configured to trigger the transition C e.g. as in B of . Accordingly the RAN transmits a channel reconfiguration message e.g. a RB Reconfiguration message on the FACH to facilitate the given UE s transition from CELL FACH to CELL DCH state C e.g. as in B of . Upon receiving the cell update confirm message of C the given UE transitions from the CELL FACH state to the CELL DCH state C. While not shown in the transition of C may include decoding the cell update confirm message an L synchronization procedure etc. Upon transitioning to CELL DCH state in C the given UE sends a cell update confirm response message e.g. RB Reconfiguration Complete message etc. to the RAN on the reverse link DCH or E DCH C.

Referring to assume that a given UE originating UE is operating in CELL FACH state D. While in CELL FACH state the given UE determines to request that an alert message be sent to at least one target UE D. In the embodiment of it may be assumed that the determination by the given UE to send the alert message in D corresponds to a determination by the given UE to transmit data as in A of without transitioning itself to CELL DCH state as in A of .

Thereby the given UE does not configure a header portion e.g. a DSCP field or value of the alert message to prompt the RAN to transition the given UE to CELL DCH state D. Accordingly the given UE transmits the un configured alert message on the RACH to the RAN D. The RAN receives the un configured alert message on the RACH from the given UE and forwards the alert message to the application server D.

The RAN also evaluates the header portion e.g. the DSCP field of the alert message e.g. as in B of and determines not to transition the given UE into CELL DCH state based on the uplink traffic or data packet having a header portion that is not configured to trigger the transition D e.g. as in B of . Thus the given UE is not transitioned from the CELL FACH state to the CELL DCH state D.

Referring to assume that the application server has been requested to initiate a communication session to a given UE target UE and that the given UE is operating in either URA PCH state or CELL PCH state E. Accordingly the application server determines to send a call announce message to the given UE and also to transition the given UE to CELL DCH state E. As will be appreciated the determination of E corresponds to a determination to transmit data as in A of and also to transition the given UE i.e. the target UE in this case to CELL DCH state as in A of .

Thereby the application server configures a header portion e.g. a DSCP field or value of a call announce to prompt the RAN to transition the given UE to CELL DCH state E. Accordingly the application server transmits the configured call announce message to the RAN E and the RAN pages the target UE E. The target UE receives and decodes the page message and transitions to CELL FACH state E and the target UE transmits a cell update message on the RACH to the RAN E.

The RAN also evaluates the header portion e.g. the DSCP field of the configured call announce message e.g. as in B of and determines to transition the given UE into CELL DCH state based on the downlink traffic or data packet having a header portion configured to trigger the transition E e.g. as in B of . Accordingly the RAN transmits a cell update confirm message e.g. a RB Reconfiguration message on the FACH to facilitate the given UE s transition from CELL FACH to CELL DCH state E e.g. as in B of . Upon receiving the cell update confirm message of E the given UE transitions from the CELL FACH state to the CELL DCH state E. While not shown in the transition of E may include decoding the cell update confirm message an L synchronization procedure etc. Upon transitioning to CELL DCH state in E the target UE sends a cell update confirm response message e.g. RB Reconfiguration Complete message etc. on the DCH or E DCH E after which the RAN transmits the call announce message to the target UE on the downlink DCH or HS DSCH E.

Referring to assume that the application server has been requested to send an alert message to a given UE target UE and that the given UE is operating in either URA PCH state or CELL PCH state F. In the embodiment of it may be assumed that the determination by the application server to send the alert message in F corresponds to a determination by the application server to transmit data as in A of without transitioning the target UE to CELL DCH state as in A of .

Thereby the application server does not configure a header portion e.g. a DSCP field or value of the alert message to prompt the RAN to transition the given UE to CELL DCH state F. Accordingly the application server sends the un configured alert message to the RAN F and the RAN pages the target UE F. The target UE decodes the page message from F and transitions to CELL FACH state F and the target UE sends a cell update message on the RACH to the RAN F.

The RAN also evaluates the header portion e.g. the DSCP field of the alert message e.g. as in B of and determines not to transition the given UE into CELL DCH state based on the downlink traffic or data packet having a header portion that is not configured to trigger the transition F e.g. as in B of . Thus the given UE is not transitioned from the CELL FACH state to the CELL DCH state e.g. as in B of . Instead the RAN transmits a cell update confirm message on the FACH to the target UE without triggering a transition of the target UE to CELL DCH state i.e. RRC state CELL FACH F and the target UE remains in CELL FACH state F. The target UE sends a cell update confirm response message on the RACH back to the RAN F and the RAN transmits the alert message to the target UE on the FACH F.

While are directed to examples whereby the target UE is initially in URA PCH or CELL PCH state it will be appreciated that the target UE could also be in CELL FACH state when the RAN receives the application server s request to transmit data e.g. the call announce message in or the alert message in to the target UE. In the case where the target UE is already in CELL FACH state it will be appreciated that blocks E through E of and or blocks F through F of can be omitted.

Embodiments of the invention described above with respect to relate to changes in behavior at the application server the RAN and or the originating or target UEs. are directed to another embodiment of the invention whereby the behavioral changes occur exclusively at the RAN such that the RAN makes a decision with regard to whether to transition a given UE to CELL DCH state based on an evaluation of normal traffic being exchanged between the given UE and the application server .

Upon receiving the message at the RAN the RAN determines a size of the received message and stores the determined size of the received message at the RAN A. For example the determined size of the received message in A can correspond to how many bits or bytes are included in a data payload portion of the received message from A. In A the RAN starts a timer having a given expiration period for the given UE associated with the message received in A. In an example the given expiration period can be set to a duration within which at least one additional message of a different size would be expected if the message received in A were associated with a communication session of the given UE e.g. 500 milliseconds ms 5 seconds etc. .

The RAN next determines whether any subsequent messages related to the high QoS RB for the services provided to the given UE by the application server are received before the timer started in A expires A. If the RAN determines that the timer expires before any other related messages are received the RAN does not transition the given UE to CELL DCH state A. Otherwise if the RAN determines that one or more subsequent messages related to the high QoS RB are received before the timer started in A expires the RAN determines a size of the subsequent message and stores the determined size of the subsequent message at the RAN A.

In A the RAN compares the determined size of the message received in A to the determined size of the subsequent message. If the RAN determines that the sizes of the message from A and the subsequent message are the same the RAN does not transition the given UE to CELL DCH state and also resets the timer A after which the process returns to A and the RAN waits to receive another subsequent related message before the expiration of the timer. For example refraining from transitioning a UE to CELL DCH state when same sized messages are received can reduce an occurrence of CELL DCH state transitions for re transmissions of alert messages.

Otherwise if the RAN determines that the sizes of the message from A and the subsequent message are not the same the RAN infers that the given UE is participating in some type of communication session with the application server and thereby initiates a transition of the given UE to CELL DCH state A e.g. by sending a cell update confirm message such as a RB Reconfiguration message in an example .

Referring to assume that the application server has been requested to send a call announce message to a given UE target UE and that the given UE is operating in either URA PCH state or CELL PCH state B. Accordingly the application server sends the call announce message to the RAN B and the RAN pages the target UE B. In the embodiment of assume that the call announce message has a first size. As such the RAN determines the size of the call announce message e.g. the first size stores the first size in association with a record related to the target UE and starts a timer having a given expiration period B e.g. as in A and A of . Upon receiving the page message in B the target UE transitions to CELL FACH state B responds to the page message by sending a cell update message on the RACH B and the RAN sends a cell update confirm message to the target UE B. At this point the cell update confirm message of B does not instruct the target UE to transition to CELL DCH state because two or more different sized messages have not yet been received within the timer period. The target UE thereby remains in CELL FACH state and sends a cell update confirm response message on the RACH B and the RAN then sends the call announce message on the FACH to the target UE B.

When the target UE receives and decodes the call announce message in B assume that the target UE determines to accept the announced communication session and thereby sends an announce ACK accept message back to the application server B. Upon receiving a call acceptance from a first responder of the announced communication session the application server sends at least one subsequent message to the RAN for each session participant including the target UE that includes information related to the remaining steps for establishing the session B. In the embodiment of assume that the subsequent message of B is sent before the timer started in B expires and that the subsequent message has a second size that is different from the first size of the call announce message. The RAN determines the sizes of the call announce message from B and the subsequent message from B to be different and thereby determines to transition the target UE from CELL FACH state to CELL DCH state B e.g. as in A and A of .

The RAN thereby instructs the target UE to transition to CELL DCH state B. While not explicitly shown in the CELL DCH transition can be prompted by a cell update confirm message e.g. a RB Reconfiguration message transmitted on the FACH to facilitate the target UE s transition from CELL FACH to CELL DCH state.

Referring to assume that the application server has been requested to send an alert message to a given UE target UE and that the given UE is operating in either URA PCH state or CELL PCH state C. Accordingly the application server sends the alert message to the RAN C and the RAN pages the target UE C. In the embodiment of assume that the alert message has a third size e.g. different than the sizes of the B and B messages from . As such the RAN determines the size of the call alert message e.g. the third size stores the third size in association with a record related to the target UE and starts a timer having a given expiration period C e.g. as in A and A of . Upon receiving and decoding the page message the target UE transitions to CELL FACH state C and the target UE sends a cell update message on the RACH C. The RAN receives the cell update message and sends a cell update confirm message on the FACH C and the target UE responds to the cell update confirm message with a cell update confirm response message on the RACH C. Then the RAN transmits the alert message to the target UE on the FACH C.

Because alert messages are often notification type messages that do not result in a significant amount of additional traffic between the target UE and the application server assume in the embodiment of that no additional messages are exchanged between the application server and target UE before expiration of the timer. Accordingly the RAN determines that no subsequent related messages were received before the timer s expiration e.g. as in A of and thereby determines not to transition the target UE from CELL FACH state to CELL DCH state C e.g. as in A of . Thus the target UE is not transitioned from the CELL FACH state to the CELL DCH state C.

Referring to D through D correspond to C through C of respectively and as such will not be described further for the sake of brevity. At some point after the transmission of the initial alert message in D and before the expiration of the timer in D assume that the application server determines to re transmit the same alert message. For example the application server can determine to re transmit if the target UE does not send an ACK to the alert message. Accordingly the application server re transmits the alert message in D and the RAN re transmits the alert message to the target UE on the FACH D.

In the embodiment of because the alert message of D is simply a re transmission of the alert message from D both alert messages have the same size e.g. the third size . Thereby the RAN determines the sizes of the alert message from D and the re transmitted alert message from D to be the same and further determines not to transition the target UE from CELL FACH state to CELL DCH state D e.g. as in A and A of . Thus the RAN stores the third size for the re transmitted alert message and resets the timer in D and the target UE is not transitioned from the CELL FACH state to the CELL DCH state D.

While references in the above described embodiments of the invention have generally used the terms call and session interchangeably it will be appreciated that any call and or session is intended to be interpreted as inclusive of actual calls between different parties or alternatively to data transport sessions that technically may not be considered as calls . Also while above embodiments have generally described with respect to PTT sessions other embodiments can be directed to any type of communication session such as a push to transfer PTX session an emergency VoIP call etc.

Those of skill in the art will appreciate that information and signals may be represented using any of a variety of different technologies and techniques. For example data instructions commands information signals bits symbols and chips that may be referenced throughout the above description may be represented by voltages currents electromagnetic waves magnetic fields or particles optical fields or particles or any combination thereof.

Further those of skill in the art will appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present invention.

The various illustrative logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

The methods sequences and or algorithms described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium is coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. The ASIC may reside in a user terminal e.g. access terminal . In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal.

In one or more exemplary embodiments the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored on or transmitted over as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage media may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Also any connection is properly termed a computer readable medium. For example if the software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative embodiments of the invention it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims. The functions steps and or actions of the method claims in accordance with the embodiments of the invention described herein need not be performed in any particular order. Furthermore although elements of the invention may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated.

