---

title: Two-chamber eductor based incinerator with exhaust gas recirculation
abstract: The invention is directed to an optimized two-chamber eductor based incinerator system. The two-chamber optimized incinerator system includes a primary and a secondary combustion chamber, the system having a single fuel fired burner located in one of the secondary combustion chamber, or the eductor. The system also includes an eductor connecting the primary combustion chamber to the secondary combustion chamber, the eductor creating a recirculation flow through the first and the second combustion chambers.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09115894&OS=09115894&RS=09115894
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 09115894
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130301
---
The following description was made in the performance of official duties by employees of the Department of the Navy and thus the claimed invention may be manufactured used licensed by or for the United States Government for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon.

The following description relates generally to an optimized eductor based incinerator more particularly an optimized incinerator system having first and second combustion chambers having a single fuel fired burner for facilitating combustion in both the first and the second combustion chambers by utilizing an exhaust gas recirculation flow through the first and the second combustion chambers.

Generally speaking an incinerator is essentially a combination of a furnace and a chemical process system with the primary purpose of waste destruction and volume reduction. A traditional two chamber incinerator has a fuel fired burner and a combustion air blower for each chamber. The solid or liquid waste is reacted with oxygen to turn it onto a fuel gas in the primary combustion chamber. The fuel gas is mixed with additional air in a secondary combustion chamber and reacted to form exhaust gas.

Fuel fired burners are used to preheat the chambers. The fuel fired burner in the second combustion chamber is usually operated at all times to maintain the temperature of that chamber and to provide an ignition source for the fuel gas entering from the primary combustion chamber. The fuel fired burner for the primary combustion chamber is usually turned off once the solid or liquid waste begins reacting and gives off heat. The amount of combustion air that enters the two chambers also controls the rate of the reactions. Although this allows good control of the system temperatures it requires two separate burners and two blowers. In a few instances the prior art teaches two chamber arrangements having a single burner. In these prior art teachings the heat from on chamber is used to ignite the other combustion chamber via conduction through the walls of the combustion chambers. There is a loss of efficiency due to the heating via conduction. Thus it is desired to have a more efficient two chamber incinerator having a single burner for providing combustion in both chambers.

In one aspect the invention is a two chamber incinerator system. The system includes a primary combustion chamber having a combustion bed for receiving waste. The system also includes a primary combustion air source connected to the primary combustion chamber providing a primary combustion air supply into the primary combustion chamber. The system also includes a secondary combustion chamber downstream of the primary combustion chamber and an eductor attached to an inlet region of the secondary combustion chamber. According to this aspect the system also includes a fuel source connected to the eductor providing fuel into the secondary combustion chamber and a secondary combustion air source connected to the secondary combustion chamber providing a secondary combustion air supply into the secondary combustion chamber. The system further includes a burner in one of the secondary combustion chamber or the eductor for igniting the fuel in the secondary chamber. The two chamber incinerator system also has an exhaust fuel gas conduit connecting the primary combustion chamber to the eductor the exhaust fuel gas conduit feeding fuel gas from the primary combustion chamber to the secondary combustion chamber. The system further includes an exhaust gas conduit connecting the secondary combustion chamber to the primary combustion chamber wherein the exhaust gas conduit feeds exhaust gas from the secondary combustion chamber to the primary combustion chamber the exhaust gas in combination with the primary combustion air igniting the waste within the primary combustion chamber wherein the fuel gas conduit and the exhaust gas conduit form a recirculation loop between the primary combustion chamber and the secondary combustion chamber.

In another aspect the invention is a method of waste combustion. The method includes providing a primary combustion chamber having a combustion bed for receiving waste therewithin providing waste on the combustion bed and providing a primary combustion air source connected to the primary combustion chamber providing a primary combustion air supply into the primary combustion chamber. The method also includes providing a secondary combustion chamber downstream of the primary combustion chamber providing an eductor attached to an inlet region of the secondary combustion chamber and providing a fuel source connected to the eductor providing fuel into the secondary combustion chamber. In this aspect the method also includes providing a secondary combustion air source connected to the eductor providing a secondary combustion air supply into the secondary combustion chamber providing a burner in one of the secondary combustion chamber or the eductor for igniting the fuel providing an exhaust fuel gas conduit connecting the primary combustion chamber to the eductor and providing an exhaust gas conduit connecting the secondary combustion chamber to the primary combustion chamber. In this aspect the method of waste combustion also includes feeding combustion air from the secondary combustion air source into the secondary combustion feeding fuel into the secondary combustion chamber igniting the burner to burn the fuel thereby creating an exhaust gas byproduct within the secondary combustion chamber directing the exhaust gas to the primary combustion chamber via the exhaust gas conduit and using the exhaust gas waste in combination with the primary combustion air supply to ignite the waste within the combustion bed.

As shown in a fuel gas conduit connects the primary combustion chamber to the secondary combustion chamber via the eductor . The fuel gas conduit is attached directly to the primary combustion chamber and feeds the fuel gas output from the primary chamber through the eductor at reduced pressure into the secondary combustion chamber . As shown the combustion system also includes an exhaust gas recirculation conduit connecting the secondary combustion chamber to the primary combustion chamber for circulating a portion of the exhaust gas from the secondary combustion chamber into the primary combustion chamber . The combustion system also includes an exhaust stack arrangement through which the balance of the exhaust gas exits the combustion system . As shown the exhaust stack arrangement may optionally include a fan to assist with the evacuating of the exhaust gas through the stack . As outlined below during the operation of the combustion system pressure differences in the secondary combustion chamber causes a portion of the exhaust to flow to the primary chamber and a portion to flow to the exhaust stack arrangement . It should be noted that is a schematic illustration showing important elements of the invention. Consequently all elements are not illustrated. Thus for example the system may also include more complex conduit components including waste and ash conveying equipment pumps valves conveyors filters etc. that are not illustrated.

According to an embodiment of the invention the two chamber incinerator system may be operated in the following manner. Waste is loaded in the combustion bed in the primary combustion chamber . The secondary combustion chamber is then preheated to a predetermined preheat temperature of about 1 800 to about 2 000 degrees Fahrenheit This preheating process is performed by feeding fuel and combustion air into the secondary combustion chamber . The fuel is fed via the fuel source via a fuel valve . The fuel and the combustion air react when the burner is turned on. During this preheating phase the combustion air is fed into the chamber via the bypass conduit by opening the bypass valve . Feeding the combustion air via the bypass conduit and not through the eductor avoids the pressure rise associated with the eductor that would prematurely trigger the full recirculation shown in .

When the secondary combustion chamber reaches the predetermined preheat temperature the source of the combustion air is switched from the bypass conduit to the secondary combustion air source conduit by closing the bypass valve and opening the secondary combustion air valve . The predetermined preheat temperature may be about 1 800 to about 2 000 degrees Fahrenheit. The rate at which the fuel is supplied to the secondary combustion chamber may be reduced to the extent that the predetermined preheat temperature is substantially maintained. The flow of combustion air through the eductor causes a pressure difference across the eductor with a higher pressure at the exit of the eductor which is inside the secondary combustion chamber and a lower pressure at the eductor inlet which is at the exit of the primary combustion chamber . This is achieved because of the operation of the eductor . Within the eductor there is a high velocity flow the secondary combustion air from conduit and a low velocity flow the fuel gas from primary chamber that mix in a mixing chamber within the eductor. The momentum of the high velocity secondary combustion air plus the momentum of the low velocity fuel gas is equal to the momentum of the mixed gases. According to design the mixing chamber within the eductor expands in cross section and the velocity of the mixed gas is reduced and its pressure increases Bernoulli s principle . The mixed gases enter the secondary combustion chamber at a higher pressure than the mixing section and the primary combustion chamber . This pressure rise provides the forces needed to cause recirculation of the gases as described below.

This pressure difference as outlined above precipitates the recirculation loop shown in starting with the hot exhaust from the secondary combustion chamber flowing into the primary combustion chamber via the exhaust gas recirculation conduit . Due to the continued pressure differences the exhaust gas moves through the primary combustion chamber through the fuel gas conduit through the eductor and back into the secondary combustion chamber .

It should also be noted that according to the invention in the primary combustion chamber the high temperature exhaust gas transmitted through exhaust gas conduit in combination with combustion air from source is used to ignite and partially oxidize the waste in the combustion bed of the primary combustion chamber . Thus as the exhaust air enters the primary chamber as shown at combustion air is fed into the primary combustion chamber by opening the valve . According to the invention no burner is required to ignite the waste because the ignition is provided by the hot exhaust air cycled from the secondary combustion chamber . As the waste is ignited and oxidized the volatile components of the waste join the exhaust gas shown by the double arrows in the loop section exiting the primary combustion chamber as a fuel gas exhaust mixture shown in the loop section . As the combustion process continues so does the recirculation loop .

When the temperature of the primary chamber reaches its set point approximately 1600 degrees Fahrenheit the exhaust flow is no longer required. The combustion air bypass valve is opened and the combustion air valve is closed causing the combustion air to enter via conduit bypass the eductor eliminate the pressure rise in the eductor and stop the recirculating exhaust flow . After both chambers have reached their operating temperatures the temperatures of the primary combustion chamber and the secondary combustion chamber are then controlled by adjusting the combustion air flows using valves and and the fuel flow using valve .

The process outlined above may be controlled via manual operation computer operation or a combination thereof. is an exemplary schematic illustration of the controller system of the two chamber incineration system according to an embodiment of the invention. The illustration outlines primarily a computer controlled arrangement. The controller system includes a controller which may be a non transitory computer readable medium storing an information processing program that causes an associated computer to execute operations some of these operations based on signals received from different sensors placed throughout the system .

As shown the controller arrangement includes a controller which interfaces with a first temperature sensor arrangement which is located in the primary combustion chamber . The controller also interfaces with a second temperature sensor arrangement which is located in the secondary combustion chamber . The temperature sensor arrangements and may each include one temperature sensor or may include multiple temperature sensors. The temperature sensors may any known sensor such as thermocouples thermistors resistance thermometers or the like. The controller also interfaces with the valves and as shown. The valves and may be any known valve such as reed butterfly gate globe valves or the like. As shown the controller may also interface with the burner inside the secondary combustion chamber or alternatively within the eductor and the fan at the exhaust stack . shows the controller connected to the constituent elements of the arrangement via an input output bus and the connection may be wired or wireless. Although not illustrated the arrangement may include other sensors such as flow and pressure sensors connected to the controller for providing other control operations.

As stated above the controller may be used to control the operation of the two chamber combustion system . Thus at the beginning of the operation the controller may signal the opening of the bypass combustion air valve to allow bypass combustion air into the secondary combustion chamber and also signal the opening of the fuel valve to direct the flow of fuel into the secondary combustion chamber . The controller may also ignite the fuel at burner to burn the fuel in the combustion air and to heat the secondary combustion chamber to a predetermined preheat temperature which may be about 1800 to about 2000 degrees Fahrenheit. The controller also monitors the temperature readings within the secondary combustion chamber via signals from the temperature sensor arrangement . Based on the temperature readings the controller determines if the predetermined preheat temperature has been reached.

When the controller determines that the predetermined preheat temperature is reached the controller executes several follow up steps to continue the combustion process. These steps include the closing of the bypass combustion air valve to stop the flow of combustion air from the bypass combustion air supply. The controller may also partially close the fuel valve to reduce the flow of fuel into the secondary combustion chamber in order to maintain the temperature in the secondary combustion chamber at a temperature that is substantially within the predetermined preheat temperature range of about 1 800 2 000 degrees Fahrenheit. The controller then opens the secondary combustion air valve to allow secondary combustion air into the secondary combustion chamber via the eductor wherein a pressure difference is created across the eductor that generates a recirculating flow between the primary combustion chamber and the secondary combustion chamber . The formation of this flow has been outlined above with respect to the description of . Additionally as outlined with respect to and based on temperature readings from temperature sensor arrangements and the controller may adjust fuel and or combustion air flow into the chambers and in order to maintain the temperature at a desired level and to maintain combustion throughout the system.

As stated above when the temperature of the primary chamber reaches its set point approximately 1600 degrees Fahrenheit the exhaust flow is no longer required. When this happens the controller opens the combustion air bypass valve and closes the combustion air valve causing the combustion air to enter via conduit bypass the eductor eliminate the pressure rise in the eductor and stop the recirculating exhaust flow . After both chambers have reached their operating temperatures the controller controls the temperatures of the primary combustion chamber and the secondary combustion chamber by adjusting the combustion air flows using valves and and the fuel flow using valve . This prevents the overheating of the primary combustion chamber .

According to an embodiment the invention also includes a method of waste combustion which has been outlined above in the written description as it pertains to and . The method includes the providing of the apparatus illustrated in and providing the waste within the primary combustion chamber . The method additionally includes the combustion of the waste in the primary chamber by igniting fuel in the secondary chamber using the burner located in the secondary chamber. The method includes the creating of the recirculation flow the exhaust flow and the control of the system .

What has been described and illustrated herein are preferred embodiments of the invention along with some variations. The terms descriptions and figures used herein are set forth by way of illustration only and are not meant as limitations. Those skilled in the art will recognize that many variations are possible within the spirit and scope of the invention which is intended to be defined by the following claims and their equivalents in which all terms are meant in their broadest reasonable sense unless otherwise indicated.

