---

title: Knowledge based authentication using mobile devices
abstract: A technique of performing knowledge based authentication (KBA) involves collecting activity data and time data based on operation of a mobile device, the activity data identifying an activity performed by the mobile device, and the time data identifying a time of the activity. The technique further involves generating a KBA question based on the activity data and the time data. The technique further involves providing the KBA question to a user to authenticate the user. Such a technique is capable of being performed by a remote server which communicates with the mobile device over time (e.g., in response to certain events, periodically, combinations thereof, etc.). Accordingly, the remote server is able to accumulate activity and time data which is not stored permanently (or perhaps even at all) by the mobile device, and then generate KBA questions based on that data.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09565562&OS=09565562&RS=09565562
owner: EMC IP Holding Company LLC
number: 09565562
owner_city: Hopkinton
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131205
---
In knowledge based authentication KBA a human authenticates by answering a set of questions i.e. one or more questions . If the human answers the set of questions correctly authentication is considered successful. If the human does not answer the set of questions correctly authentication is considered unsuccessful.

Conventional KBA questions have been derived from credit bureaus e.g. where did you live in 2006 government records e.g. what type of vehicle did you own in 2007 and public databases e.g. what school did you attend in 2008 . Additionally the legitimate human may proactively provide answers to certain secret questions during an enrollment period so that the legitimate human can provide correct answers at a later time e.g. what was the name of your first pet . Accordingly if the authenticating human is legitimate the human will correctly answer the set of secret questions to successfully authenticate.

Unfortunately there are deficiencies to the above described conventional KBA questions. For example KBA questions derived from public data sources such as credit bureaus government records and public databases are typically weak since such information is easily accessible due to advances in the Internet and search utilities. Additionally proactively providing answers to certain secret questions during an enrollment period is burdensome and limits the number of available questions for KBA that is due to proactively answering only a limited number of secret questions the secret questions are often reused thus weakening security.

More recently KBA questions have been derived from static information stored in a smart phone. For example suppose that a smart phone maintains a list of contacts including John Smith . A multiple choice KBA question can be derived such as which of the following people are in your list of contacts . Unfortunately the security of such a KBA question can be overcome by a hacker who simply steals the smart phone and accesses the static information stored in the smart phone e.g. the hacker simply reads the list of contacts.

Improved techniques are directed to generation of KBA questions from activity data and time data which are based on operation of a mobile device e.g. a smart phone a personal assistant device a tablet etc. . Such data is collected on an external server for use in KBA questions and may not be readily available from the mobile device itself. For example such data can be used to create a multiple choice question such as what contact did you recently add to your contact list where perhaps all of the choices are in the contact list. Even though the contact list is stored on the mobile device it may be extremely difficult or even impossible for a hacker to determine which contact was recently added if there is no entry time information maintained by the mobile device. Similarly other strong KBA questions can be created such as which of the following networks did you use within the last five days which is the last app you installed and so on. Even though certain information may be available from the mobile device e.g. the contact list the apps etc. other information needed to correctly answer the questions may not be stored in the mobile device e.g. when which etc. . Accordingly the improved techniques provide a strong form of authentication with only the actual mobile device user being able to successfully answer the questions.

One embodiment is directed to a method of performing KBA which includes collecting by processing circuitry activity data and time data based on operation of a mobile device the activity data identifying an activity performed by the mobile device and the time data identifying a time of the activity. The method further includes generating by the processing circuitry a KBA question based on the activity data and the time data. The method further includes providing by the processing circuitry the KBA question to a user to authenticate the user. Such a method is capable of being performed by a remote authentication server which communicates with the mobile device over time e.g. in response to certain events periodically combinations thereof etc. . Accordingly the remote authentication server is able to accumulate activity and time data which is not stored permanently or perhaps even at all by the mobile device and then generate KBA questions based on that data. As a result a hacker having access to the mobile device will be unable to extract enough information from the mobile device to correctly answer the KBA questions.

In some arrangements generating the KBA question based on the activity data and the time data includes forming as the KBA question a multiple choice time based question from the activity data and the time data.

In some arrangements the time data is not locally stored on the mobile device to prevent a fraudster from discovering an answer to the KBA question through interrogation of the mobile device.

In some arrangements the multiple choice time based question queries the user to identify which event of multiple selectable events recently occurred via the mobile device.

In some arrangements an operating system and a local app runs on the mobile device the operating system providing an application programming interface API . In these arrangements collecting the activity data includes receiving the activity data from the local app running on the mobile device the local app having extracted the activity data via the API.

In some arrangements receiving the activity data includes i detection of an event by the mobile device and ii receipt of the activity data from the mobile device in real time in response to the detection of the event. For example the activity data can include update information defining an incremental change in information on the mobile device and wherein the time data includes a current time of receipt of the activity data.

In some arrangements receiving the activity data includes periodic receipt of lists from the mobile device. For example the KBA question can be based on a difference between the lists from the mobile device.

In some arrangements the method further includes receiving as an answer to the multiple choice time based question an incorrect event selection resulting in unsuccessful authentication of the user. In these arrangements the method further includes performing a remedial operation in response to unsuccessful authentication of the user.

In some arrangements performing the remedial operation includes providing the user with a step up authentication challenge in a follow up attempt to authenticate the user.

In some arrangements performing the remedial operation includes locking out the user from a protected resource which is otherwise accessible via the mobile device.

In some arrangements performing the remedial operation includes outputting an alarm to warn an administrator that authentication of the user is unsuccessful.

In some arrangements performing the remedial operation includes providing the user with a step up authentication challenge in a follow up attempt to authenticate the user. In these arrangements performing the remedial operation further includes in response to unsuccessful authentication via the step up authentication challenge i locking out the user from a protected resource which is otherwise accessible via the mobile device and ii outputting an alarm to warn an administrator that authentication of the user is unsuccessful.

It should be understood that in the cloud context the processing circuitry is formed by remote computer resources distributed over a network. Such a computing environment is capable of providing certain advantages such as enhanced fault tolerance load balancing processing flexibility etc.

Other embodiments are directed to electronic systems and apparatus processing circuits computer program products and so on. Some embodiments are directed to various methods electronic components and circuitry which are involved in performing KBA.

An improved technique is directed to generation of knowledge based authentication KBA questions from activity data and time data which are based on operation of a mobile device e.g. a smart phone a personal assistant device a tablet etc. . Such data is collected on an external server for use in KBA questions and may not be readily available thus protecting the data from discovery from the mobile device itself. Along these lines such data can be used to create a multiple choice question such as what contact did you recently add to your contact list where perhaps all of the choices are in the contact list. Even though the contact list is stored on the mobile device it may be extremely difficult or even impossible for a hacker to determine which contact was recently added if there is no entry time information maintained by the mobile device. Likewise other strong KBA questions can be created such as which of the following networks did you use within the last five days which is the last app you installed and so on. Even though certain information may be stored in the mobile device e.g. the contact list the apps etc. other information needed to correctly answer the questions may not be stored e.g. when which etc. . Thus the improved technique provides a strong form of authentication with only the legitimate mobile device user knowing the correct answers to the questions.

Each mobile device is constructed and arranged to provide controlled access to one or more protected resources on behalf of its respective user . Such protected resources may reside locally on the mobile device e.g. see protected resources . . . or remotely on one or more protected resource servers . Examples of suitable protected resources include user interface access i.e. unlocking the mobile devices app access contact list access access to stored content access to particular local features such as a camera a phone and so on.

The set of protected resource servers maintain other protected resources . Such protected resources are capable of being accessed remotely by the mobile devices . Examples of suitable protected resources include among others accounts and databases of enterprises VPNs gateways other networks account access and transaction access with banks brokerages other financial institutions transaction access at online stores databases containing movies music files other content access to email access to online games and so on.

The authentication server is equipped to generate KBA questions from activity data and time data collected from the mobile devices and then use the KBA questions to authenticate the users of the mobile devices . Such authentication can be used to control access to the protected resources . As shown in and as will be described in further detail shortly the authentication server includes activity data and time data collection circuitry to collect the activity data and time data KBA question generation circuitry to generate KBA questions from the activity data and time data and authentication circuitry to authenticate the users using the KBA questions.

The communications medium is constructed and arranged to connect the various components of the electronic environment together to enable these components to exchange electronic signals e.g. see the double arrow . At least a portion of the communications medium is illustrated as a cloud to indicate that the communications medium is capable of having a variety of different topologies including backbone hub and spoke loop irregular combinations thereof and so on. Along these lines the communications medium may include copper based data communications devices and cabling fiber optic devices and cabling wireless devices combinations thereof etc. Furthermore the communications medium is capable of supporting LAN based communications SAN based communications cellular communications combinations thereof etc.

During operation the users operate their respective mobile devices to perform useful work. Along these lines the users can successful authenticate with the authentication server and then access one or more protected resources e.g. view a file read email perform a banking transaction etc. . Such operation may involve access to protected resources of the mobile devices e.g. access to certain apps access to unlock the mobile devices access to locally stored data etc. . Alternatively or in combination such operation may involve access to protected resources of the protected resource servers e.g. remote login access remote access to content ability to complete transactions etc. . Other access control activities include installing apps adding contacts connecting to different networks accessing resources and so on. Some mobile devices may be equipped with special peripherals that enable the users to perform additional operations upon successful authentication such as make cellular calls navigate using maps and GPS circuitry take pictures and so on.

During the course of such operation the mobile devices communicate particular activity related details to the authentication server for use in subsequent KBA. In particular the activity data and time data collecting circuitry of the authentication server collects this information even though such information may not be stored on the mobile devices e.g. stores the activity related details from the mobile devices stores timestamp information from a server clock etc. . Additionally the KBA question generation circuitry of the authentication server generates KBA questions from this information and authentication circuitry of the authentication server provides the generated KBA questions to the mobile devices to authenticate the users and control access to the protected resources .

In some arrangements the mobile devices communicate the activity related details to the authentication server in response to detection of certain events e.g. adding a contact to a contact list making a cellular phone call installing a new app connecting to a network etc. . Such event driven activity related details can be communicated to the authentication server in lightweight incremental manner.

In some arrangements the mobile devices log the activity details for a temporary period of time before communicating the activity related details to the authentication server . Such periodic reporting to the authentication server enables the mobile devices to gather and provide the activity related details even if mobile devices go offline for periods of time e.g. if the mobile devices move out of network coverage etc. .

In some arrangements the mobiles devices are equipped for both event driven operation and periodic reporting operation. Such capabilities enable the mobile devices to operate in a wide variety of environments and can be tailored customized to handle particular situations. It should be understood that other events activities can be reported from the mobile device to the authentication server either in real time or periodically such as among others when the mobile devices is turned on or off when the mobile device is charging when the mobile device synching and so on.

It should be understood that the users initially enroll for KBA and that such enrollment involves installation of a specialized application or app on the user s mobile device with appropriate privileges to enable effective retrieval of the activity data. Additionally enrollment involves configuring the specialized app to communicate with the authentication server in a trusted secure manner. In some arrangements the operating system and or other applications running on the mobile device provide a standard application programming interface API from which to extract the activity details.

Once the specialized app is installed and running the mobile device is advantageously equipped to perform two specialized types of operations reporting operations and authentication operations. Reporting involves conveying the activity data to the authentication server . Authentication involves challenging a user with one or more KBA questions to determine whether the user is authentic.

In connection with the reporting operations virtually any activity that is carried out by the mobile device can be conveyed to the authentication server even if no data is stored locally on the mobile device e.g. see the activity related details in . Some reporting operations can be event driven i.e. the mobile device notifies the authentication server when the mobile device performs certain activities e.g. when a new contact is added to a contact list when the mobile device connects to a network and so on . Such event driven behavior is a relatively lightweight operation that does not consume extensive bandwidth compute cycles power or other resources. Additionally other reporting operations can be scheduled or periodic i.e. temporarily logged e.g. buffered but not stored permanently e.g. the number of times a phone call to a certain telephone number was made during a particular time period a list of networks that the mobile device connected with during a particular time period a time when the mobile device was shut off or charged and so on .

In connection with authentication operations the specialized app of the mobile device receives a set of KBA questions from the authentication server i.e. one or more KBA questions which are based on the collected activity related details and time data and prompts the user of the mobile device for a set of answers which the specialized app then relays to the authentication server .

The authentication server then outputs a control signal indicating whether the authentication server deems the user to be authentic i.e. whether the user successfully authenticated by properly answering the set of questions . If the control signal indicates that authentication is successful the mobile device provides the user with access to one or more protected resources e.g. by unlocking a set of keys by directly allowing the user with resource access etc. . However if the control signal indicates that authentication is unsuccessful the specialized app does not provide the user with access. Rather the authentication server performs a set of remedial operations e.g. re challenges the user performs step up authentication using a challenge that is stronger than KBA provides an alarm to a human administrator locks out the user combinations thereof and so on. . Further details will now be provided with reference to .

The network interface is constructed and arranged to connect the authentication server to the communications medium . Accordingly the network interface enables the authentication server to communicate with the other components of the electronic environment . Such communications may be copper based fiber optic based or wireless i.e. IP based SAN based cellular Bluetooth combinations thereof and so on .

The memory is intended to represent both volatile storage e.g. DRAM SRAM etc. and non volatile storage e.g. flash memory magnetic disk drives etc. . The memory stores a variety of software constructs including an operating system to manage the computerized resources of the authentication server KBA applications to form the various KBA circuitry of the authentication server a user database to hold user profile information regarding the users an activity database to hold collected activity data and time data and a KBA question repository to hold generated KBA questions also see .

The processing circuitry is constructed and arranged to operate in accordance with the various software constructs stored in the memory . Such circuitry may be implemented in a variety of ways including via one or more processors or cores running specialized software application specific ICs ASICs field programmable gate arrays FPGAs and associated programs discrete components analog circuits other hardware circuitry combinations thereof and so on. In the context of one or more processors executing software a computer program product is capable of delivering all or portions of the software to the authentication server . The computer program product has a non transitory or non volatile computer readable medium which stores a set of instructions which controls one or more operations of the authentication server . Examples of suitable computer readable storage media include tangible articles of manufacture and apparatus which store instructions in a non volatile manner such as CD ROM flash memory disk memory tape memory and the like.

The additional or other circuitry is optional and represents additional hardware that can be utilized by the authentication server . For example the authentication server can include a user interface i.e. a console or terminal enabling a human administrator to set up new users to deal with alarms or warning messages to administer routine maintenance and so on. Other components and circuitry are suitable for use as well.

During operation the authentication server runs in accordance with the KBA applications to reliably and robustly control access to the protected resources within the electronic environment . In particular the authentication server enrolls users and stores the enrollment data in the user database . Additionally the authentication server collects activity related details from the mobile devices as well as time data e.g. from a local clock and saves this information as activity data and time data within the activity database . Furthermore the authentication server generates KBA questions from the activity data and time data within the activity database and stores the KBA questions in the KBA question repository .

In connection with the user database the user database includes user profiles for the users of the mobile devices . Each user profile includes among other things a user identifier to uniquely identify the user a mobile device identifier to uniquely identify the user s mobile device and other descriptive information. In some arrangements the mobile device is provisioned with additional security features e.g. is configured as an authentication token is configured as a container of security keys or other secrets etc. and the user database stores copies of this information.

In connection with the activity database the activity database is capable of storing information regarding any activity data that is conveyed to the authentication server also see the activity related details in . Recall that activity data can be gathered from the mobile devices in an event driven manner and or periodically.

As further shown in each set of data records includes different data categories . . . collectively categories . Additionally each data category includes multiple fields a user identifier field to hold a user identifier which identifies a particular user fields to hold collected activity and time data relating to the particular user and that category a field indicating whether a KBA question has recently used the information within the fields of that category and additional fields to store other information e.g. .

By way of example only in record set see the field of category stores a user identifier indicating that the data corresponding to category belongs to user number 000080 . The fields for the category store descriptions of apps that have been recently installed on the mobile device e.g. within the last five days within the last week etc. . It should be understood that the authentication server is able to obtain such information in a variety of ways e.g. receiving such information directly from the mobile device deriving the information from a comparison between a previous list of apps installed on the mobile device and a current list of apps installed on the mobile device etc. . The contents of field e.g. yes no a timestamp etc. indicate whether the data in the fields was recently used for mobile KBA. The other fields for the category include other information such as an identifier for the mobile device a version identifier of the specialized app running on the mobile device and so on.

Likewise in the record set the other categories . . . store information regarding other activities performed by the user of the mobile device . Other suitable categories include contact list data e.g. a short list of recently added contacts to a contact list of the mobile device etc. network connection history e.g. a short list of networks that were recently connected to by the mobile device etc. call history e.g. a list of contacts that were called more than X times during a recent period of time etc. camera history e.g. a timestamp identifying the last time a camera of the mobile device was used a number of times the camera was used within a recent period of time etc. GPS history charging history and so on.

In some arrangements each activity recorded in the activity database includes a timestamp from a local clock of the authentication server . Accordingly the authentication server is able to generate a count of certain activities within a set period of time e.g. within the last week 5 days 3 days day hour etc. .

In connection with the KBA question repository the KBA question repository stores KBA questions for use in KBA. In some arrangements the KBA questions are fully generated ahead of time e.g. N KBA questions per user where N is a positive integer . In other arrangements the KBA questions are in template form and the actual KBA questions provided to the users are dynamically formed just prior to delivery to the users . In yet other arrangements the KBA question repository stores both actual KBA questions ready for use and templates for dynamic KBA question generation. In all arrangements great care and consideration can be provided to create KBA questions which do not offend or embarrass the users and which do not disclose confidential information of the users .

Below is a set of example KBA questions that are based on activity data collected from mobile devices and time data. Although some activity information may persist on the mobile device such example questions are relatively strong since the mobile device will not permanently maintain enough activity information to enable a malicious person to fully answer the questions from solely from the information within the mobile device .

As mentioned earlier information regarding virtually any activity that is carried out by the mobile device can be conveyed to the authentication server and then used for KBA. Accordingly other KBA questions are suitable for use as well.

Furthermore it should be understood that for illustration purposes only the example KBA questions are phrased as multiple choice questions which prompt the user to select a particular choice among multiple selectable choices. Other KBA questions can be generated which require the user provide a text based answer e.g. a name a number a location other alphanumeric entered answers etc. .

Moreover it is possible for the authentication server to create KBA questions from multiple mobile device sources. For example a question such as what city were you in when you used the camera today relies on camera data as well as GPS data. Likewise a question such as what network were you connected on when you read an email from John Smith today relies on both network data as well as email data. Other creative questions and combinations can be achieved as well. Further details will now be provided with reference to .

At the authentication server generates a KBA question based on the activity data and the time data. In particular the authentication server creates as the KBA question a question that difficult or even impossible to answer simply based on information stored in the mobile device . Rather when such information is not stored in the mobile device a fraudster will be unable to discover a correct answer to the KBA question by hacking into the mobile device .

At authentication server provides the KBA question to a user to authenticate the user and performs an operation based on the result. In particular if authentication is successful the authentication server allows access to one or more protected resources e.g. providing keys unlocking resources completing transactions etc. . However if authentication is unsuccessful the authentication server performs a remedial operation e.g. step up authentication locking out a user outputting an alarm to an administrator and so on .

As described above improved techniques are directed to generation of KBA questions from activity data and time data which are based on operation of a mobile device . Such data is collected on an external authentication server for use in KBA questions and may not be readily available from the mobile device itself. For example such data can be used to create a multiple choice question such as what contact did you recently add to your contact list where perhaps all of the choices are in the contact list. Even though the contact list is stored on the mobile device it may be extremely difficult or even impossible for a hacker to determine which contact was recently added if there is no entry time information maintained by the mobile device . Similarly other strong KBA questions can be created such as which of the following networks did you use within the last five days which is the last app you installed and so on. Even though certain information may be available from the mobile device e.g. the contact list the apps etc. other information needed to correctly answer the questions may not be stored e.g. when which etc. . As a result the improved techniques provide a strong form of authentication with only the actual mobile device user being able to successfully answer the questions.

While various embodiments of the present disclosure have been particularly shown and described it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and details may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the present disclosure as defined by the appended claims.

For example it should be understood that various components of the electronic environment are capable of being implemented in or moved to the cloud i.e. to remote computer resources distributed over a network. Here the various computer resources may be distributed tightly e.g. a server farm in a single facility or over relatively large distances e.g. over a campus in different cities coast to coast etc. . In these situations the network connecting the resources is capable of having a variety of different topologies including backbone hub and spoke loop irregular combinations thereof and so on. Additionally the network may include copper based data communications devices and cabling fiber optic devices and cabling wireless devices combinations thereof etc. Furthermore the network is capable of supporting LAN based communications SAN based communications combinations thereof and so on.

Additionally it should be understood that a variety of mobile devices are suitable for use in addition to smart phones personal assistants and tablets. For example the above described techniques can be used with e readers mobile e music devices mobile gaming devices laptop computers and so on.

Furthermore it should be understood that the format for the activity database was described above as including record sets per mobile device by way of example only. Other formats and referencing techniques are suitable for use as well such as relational databases lists based on user rather than based on mobile device lists based on apps or activities and so on.

Additionally it should be understood that some users may have multiple mobile devices and that some mobile devices may be operated by multiple users . In such situations the KBA questions can be tailored to transcend mobile devices e.g. when did you last use email on your other mobile device . Also the KBA questions can be tailored to transcend users e.g. which user before you last used this mobile device . Other combinations can be made as well.

Furthermore it should be understood that any of the above described features can be combined and or arranged to form various improved combinations and or arrangements. Moreover the above described mobile KBA can be used in combination with other forms of authentication such as standard multi factor authentication e.g. in combination with passwords PINs biometrics etc. risk based or adaptive authentication e.g. generation of risk scores indicating an amount of riskiness or probability that the person authenticating is a fraudster etc. and so on. Such modifications and enhancements are intended to belong to various embodiments of the disclosure.

