---

title: Method and apparatus for conveying point of interest data with minimum data exchange
abstract: An approach is provided for determining a first location-based record associated with at least one device (). Next, the point of interest platform causes, at least in part, a specification of a second location-based record relative to the first location-based record (). Subsequently, the point of interest platform causes, at least in part, a transmission of the second location-based record to the at least one device (), wherein transmission of the second location-based record to the at least one device is based, at least in part, on the one or more codes.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09609471&OS=09609471&RS=09609471
owner: Nokia Technologies Oy
number: 09609471
owner_city: Espoo
owner_country: FI
publication_date: 20131030
---
This application was originally filed as PCT Application No. PCT FI2013 051024 filed Oct. 30 2013 which claims priority benefit from Indian Patent Application No. 4874 CHE 2012 filed Nov. 22 2012.

Service providers and device manufacturers e.g. wireless cellular etc. are continually challenged to deliver value and convenience to consumers by for example providing compelling network services. One area of interest is providing device users with on demand access to point of interest POI information such as location information contact information etc. Typically POI data are shown alongside the lines on a map with navigation directions associated with a given location. Unfortunately the use of map applications is dependent on data plans and POI data can be considerably heavy given that areas have huge concentration of POIs. Accordingly service providers and device manufacturers face significant technical challenges to enable device users to access POI data with minimum data exchange.

Therefore there is a need for an approach to minimize data exchange when using map applications by causing transmission of specification of a second location based record relative to the determined first location based record to the at least one device.

According to one embodiment a method comprises determining a first location based record associated with at least one device. The method also comprises causing at least in part a specification of a second location based record relative to the first location based record. The method further comprises causing at least in part a transmission of the second location based record to the at least one device.

According to another embodiment an apparatus comprises at least one processor and at least one memory including computer program code for one or more computer programs the at least one memory and the computer program code configured to with the at least one processor cause at least in part the apparatus to determine a first location based record associated with at least one device. The apparatus is also caused to cause at least in part a specification of a second location based record relative to the first location based record. The apparatus is further caused to cause at least in part a transmission of the second location based record to the at least one device.

According to another embodiment a computer readable storage medium carries one or more sequences of one or more instructions which when executed by one or more processors cause at least in part an apparatus to determine a first location based record associated with at least one device. The apparatus is also caused to cause at least in part a specification of a second location based record relative to the first location based record. The apparatus is further caused to cause at least in part a transmission of the second location based record to the at least one device.

According to another embodiment an apparatus comprises means for determining a first location based record associated with at least one device. The apparatus also comprises means for causing at least in part a specification of a second location based record relative to the first location based record. The apparatus further comprises means for causing at least in part a transmission of the second location based record to the at least one device.

In addition for various example embodiments of the invention the following is applicable a method comprising facilitating a processing of and or processing 1 data and or 2 information and or 3 at least one signal the 1 data and or 2 information and or 3 at least one signal based at least in part on or derived at least in part from any one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention.

For various example embodiments of the invention the following is also applicable a method comprising facilitating access to at least one interface configured to allow access to at least one service the at least one service configured to perform any one or any combination of network or service provider methods or processes disclosed in this application.

For various example embodiments of the invention the following is also applicable a method comprising facilitating creating and or facilitating modifying 1 at least one device user interface element and or 2 at least one device user interface functionality the 1 at least one device user interface element and or 2 at least one device user interface functionality based at least in part on data and or information resulting from one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention and or at least one signal resulting from one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention.

For various example embodiments of the invention the following is also applicable a method comprising creating and or modifying 1 at least one device user interface element and or 2 at least one device user interface functionality the 1 at least one device user interface element and or 2 at least one device user interface functionality based at least in part on data and or information resulting from one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention and or at least one signal resulting from one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention.

In various example embodiments the methods or processes can be accomplished on the service provider side or on the mobile device side or in any shared way between service provider and mobile device with actions being performed on both sides.

For various example embodiments the following is applicable An apparatus comprising means for performing the method disclosed herein.

Still other aspects features and advantages of the invention are readily apparent from the following detailed description simply by illustrating a number of particular embodiments and implementations including the best mode contemplated for carrying out the invention. The invention is also capable of other and different embodiments and its several details can be modified in various obvious respects all without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the drawings and description are to be regarded as illustrative in nature and not as restrictive.

Examples of a method apparatus and computer program for causing transmission of specification of a second location based record relative to the determined first location based record to the at least one device are disclosed. In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments of the invention. It is apparent however to one skilled in the art that the embodiments of the invention may be practiced without these specific details or with an equivalent arrangement. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the embodiments of the invention.

To address these issues a system of introduces the capability to provide the device users with the ability to access POI information with minimum data exchange wherein the point of interest platform determines a first location based record associated with at least one device. Then the point of interest platform causes at least in part a specification of a second location based record relative to the first location based record. Subsequently the point of interest platform causes at least in part a transmission of the second location based record to the at least one device. Such first location based record the second location based record or a combination thereof includes at least in part a POI record a contact record or a combination thereof. In one scenario POI may be determined based on user interaction coupled with location information e.g. proximity information historical user information predicted user information contextual information location based content information etc. associated with the UE . In this way the system can present a POI information on a mapping user interface of UE by causing transmission of specification of a second location based record relative to the determined first location based record wherein the specification of the second location based record relative to the first location based record comprises reusing information associated first location based record to specify the second location based record.

In one embodiment the system makes transfer of POI information easier by causing abstraction of one or more values the one or more other values the first location based record the second location based record or a combination thereof. Such abstraction comprises determining one or more codes for representing the one or more values the one or more other values the first location based record the second location based record or a combination thereof. Further the abstraction of a first one of the one or more values the one or more other values or a combination thereof is used independently of the abstraction of a second one of the one or more values the one or more other values or a combination thereof. As mentioned one big challenge with the use of maps during navigation or exploration is that the map can be highly data consuming. For example each POI may be typically identified by name e.g. XYZ restaurant or street number e.g. 1234 Main Street or brand logo such information can be considerably heavy and may cause problems for cost conscious users dependent on data plan. As illustrated each POI has location based information and or content information. Such location based information and or content based information may be abstracted to a unique code and the determined code may be transmitted to the at least one device as a representation of the content information for a POI. In another embodiment the presentation of the code with the POI helps users to identify the POI simply by looking for similar code patterns rather than reading the text and or associating the texts to the real life spaces hence making it easier to spot the destination. In this way the system resolves problems associated with typical navigation services for example by allowing users to associate code patterns as visual guidance for a POI and thus providing an approach for easy and speedy way finding techniques.

In one scenario for instance a user wants to meet his clients at XYZ restaurant e.g. a POI . As such the user may use his mobile phone to access navigation services while driving to XYZ restaurant. In this example XYZ restaurant has some kind of visual identity e.g. logos location information contact information etc. . In various embodiments the system e.g. via a point of interest platform may process such content information and abstract the location information and or contact information. The abstracted information is then converted into codes for presentation to the user e.g. XYZ restaurant P225646 . The determined codes for the first location based record may be used globally and may be independent as well as the codes may be used locally for other POIs relative to the determined first location based record. In this way a navigation service may present the user with a code representation of the POI information as visual guidance when displaying mapping and or navigation information and enabling users to access POI information with minimum data exchange.

In another scenario if the user also wants to visit ABC restaurant e.g. a POI situated in the same location the system renders a presentation of ABC restaurant with the same code used for XYZ restaurant in the user interface of the navigation service e.g. ABC restaurant P225646 . The determination of the one or more codes is based at least in part on one or more geographic areas associated with the first location based record the second location based record or a combination thereof. Accordingly each POI refers to the previous or first instance of the POI that was sent to the device user hence reusing the information pieces that are already sent to the user s device. As a result system avoids duplication of content information and increases efficiency and the perceived user experience. In addition this process is applicable to any POI that may have similar location and or content information to the previous or first POI that was sent to the user s device. In many situations it is easier for the user to quickly identify codes associated with the POI as opposed to text e.g. street number of the POI etc. . This ease of identification is particularly helpful when the user is driving where the speed of the vehicle of the vehicle makes identifying text based identifiers more difficult when compared to code based identification.

As shown in the system comprises user equipment UE collectively referred to as UE that may include or be associated with applications collectively referred to as applications and sensors collectively referred to as sensors . In one embodiment the UEs have connectivity to a point of interest platform via the communication network . In another embodiment the point of interest platform performs one or more functions associated with determining location based records and abstracting location based records wherein the abstraction comprises determining one or more codes for representing the location based records. Such determined codes are presented in association with the UE for instance in conjunction with the applications and or related services of the services platform . By way of example the applications may be any type of application that is executable at the UE such as mapping applications navigation applications and or any other applications that may use POI information including general applications such as media player applications social networking applications calendar applications content provisioning services and the like. In one embodiment one of the applications at the UE may act as a client for point of interest platform and perform one or more functions associated with the functions of the point of interest platform . In addition the sensors may be any type of sensor. In one embodiment the sensors may include one or more sensors that may assist the point of interest platform to determine code representation for a POI. In one scenario the sensors may include location sensors e.g. GPS light sensors moisture sensors pressure sensors audio sensors e.g. microphone or receivers for different short range communications e.g. Bluetooth WiFi etc. .

By way of example the UE is any type of mobile terminal fixed terminal or portable terminal including a mobile handset station unit device multimedia computer multimedia tablet Internet node communicator desktop computer laptop computer notebook computer netbook computer tablet computer personal communication system PCS device personal navigation device personal digital assistants PDAs audio video player digital camera camcorder positioning device television receiver radio broadcast receiver electronic book device game device or any combination thereof including the accessories and peripherals of these devices or any combination thereof. It is also contemplated that the UE can support any type of interface to the user such as wearable circuitry etc. .

The communication network of system includes one or more networks such as a data network a wireless network a telephony network or any combination thereof. It is contemplated that the data network may be any local area network LAN metropolitan area network MAN wide area network WAN a public data network e.g. the Internet short range wireless network or any other suitable packet switched network such as a commercially owned proprietary packet switched network e.g. a proprietary cable or fiber optic network and the like or any combination thereof. In addition the wireless network may be for example a cellular network and may employ various technologies including enhanced data rates for global evolution EDGE general packet radio service GPRS global system for mobile communications GSM Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS etc. as well as any other suitable wireless medium e.g. worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX Long Term Evolution LTE networks code division multiple access CDMA wideband code division multiple access WCDMA wireless fidelity WiFi wireless LAN WLAN Bluetooth Internet Protocol IP data casting satellite mobile ad hoc network MANET and the like or any combination thereof.

In one embodiment the point of interest platform may include or have access to a geographic database to access or store any kind of data associated with POI such as historical user information location proximity information temporal proximity information contextual proximity information etc. Data stored in the geographic database may for instance be provided by the UEs a service platform one or more services or services or one or more content providers or content providers . In one embodiment the geographic database stores information of the code pattern associated with each POI. Accordingly the data can be very compact e.g. on the order of bits rather than bytes thereby making the storage and transmission of the POI information very efficient. For example in network environments with limited or expensive data connectivity reducing the data load for transfer can provide technical benefits such as reduce network traffic load computational load etc. as well as reduced costs to the end user.

In one embodiment the point of interest platform may be a platform with multiple interconnected components. The point of interest platform may include multiple servers intelligent networking devices computing devices components and corresponding software for performing the function of providing identification of a POI for instance by providing a code representation for a POI. In addition it is noted that the point of interest platform may be a separate entity of the system a part of the one or more services of the service platform or included within the UE e.g. as part of the application .

In one embodiment the point of interest platform may cause at least in part an enabling of the presentation of code as an identification of the POI on determining location based records associated with the POI upon processing of the location information and or content information associated with the POI. As indicated in the above scenario a user may want to visit POI e.g. XYZ restaurant . When the user opens the navigation application his location is known to the server. The user then enters the information for POI in his mobile communication device e.g. UE the mobile communication device then sends a request to the point of interest platform for abstraction of the location information and or content information into codes. The point of interest platform then communicates with the geographic database the services platform and the content provider for relevant code information. Such communication makes it possible to refer to other POIs with similar location information and or content information and reuse their codes. The transmission of the second location based record to the at least one device is based at least in part on the one or more codes.

In various embodiments the point of interest platform may predetermine the code for a POI or may determine the code on demand. Such determination of one or more codes is based at least in part on one or more geographic areas associated with the first location based record the second location based record or a combination thereof. In one scenario the point of interest platform retrieves content information associated with the POI and processes them. Then the point of interest platform abstracts location information and or content information from the determined POI to determine codes. The point of interest platform then converts the location information and or content information into codes and then associates the code with the POI. The point of interest platform then sends the determined codes to UE for presentation with the POI. Upon presentation of the one or more codes as visual guidance information for locating the POI the user can learn what codes are associated with the POI and can easily spot the POI in the real life environment based on the codes.

The services platform may include any type of service. By way of example the services platform may include mapping services navigation services social networking services content e.g. text images etc. provisioning services application services storage services contextual information determination services location based services information e.g. weather news etc. based services etc. In one embodiment the services platform may interact with the UE the point of interest platform and the content providers to supplement or aid in the processing of the content information. In other embodiments the services platform the services the applications etc. may be used to cause transmission of specification of a second location based record relative to the first location based record.

By way of example services may be an online service that reflects interests and or activities of users. In one scenario the services provide representations of each user e.g. a profile his her social links and a variety of additional information. The services allow users to share location information activities information contextual information historical user information and interests within their individual networks and provides for data portability. The services may additionally assist in providing the point of interest platform with occurrence information of the one or more codes for POI.

The content providers may provide content to the UE the point of interest platform and the services of the services platform . The content provided may be any type of content such as textual content image content etc. In one embodiment the content providers may provide content that may supplement content of the applications the sensors or a combination thereof. By way of example the content providers may provide content that may aid in the processing of the content information associated with a POI to determine codes associated with a POI. In one embodiment the content providers may also store content associated with the UE the point of interest platform and the services of the services platform . In one embodiment the content providers may manage access to a central repository of data and offer a consistent standard interface to data such as a repository of users navigational data content.

By way of example the UE the point of interest platform the services platform and the content providers communicate with each other and other components of the communication network using well known new or still developing protocols. In this context a protocol includes a set of rules defining how the network nodes within the communication network interact with each other based on information sent over the communication links. The protocols are effective at different layers of operation within each node from generating and receiving physical signals of various types to selecting a link for transferring those signals to the format of information indicated by those signals to identifying which software application executing on a computer system sends or receives the information. The conceptually different layers of protocols for exchanging information over a network are described in the Open Systems Interconnection OSI Reference Model.

Communications between the network nodes are typically effected by exchanging discrete packets of data. Each packet typically comprises 1 header information associated with a particular protocol and 2 payload information that follows the header information and contains information that may be processed independently of that particular protocol. In some protocols the packet includes 3 trailer information following the payload and indicating the end of the payload information. The header includes information such as the source of the packet its destination the length of the payload and other properties used by the protocol. Often the data in the payload for the particular protocol includes a header and payload for a different protocol associated with a different higher layer of the OSI Reference Model. The header for a particular protocol typically indicates a type for the next protocol contained in its payload. The higher layer protocol is said to be encapsulated in the lower layer protocol. The headers included in a packet traversing multiple heterogeneous networks such as the Internet typically include a physical layer 1 header a data link layer 2 header an internetwork layer 3 header and a transport layer 4 header and various application layer 5 layer 6 and layer 7 headers as defined by the OSI Reference Model.

In one embodiment an authentication module authenticates users and UE for interaction with the point of interest platform . By way of example the authentication module receives a request to subscribe to the point of interest platform for enabling generation of route images with POI data in connection with a selected POI. The subscription process may include for example establishing one or more services the user is affiliated with as well as their respective access credential information. Subscription may also entail selection of an opt in option wherein users of the point of interest platform permits sharing of their context information e.g. location information position information and temporal information as collected via one or more sensors of UE and or geographic database and or services . Preferences and settings information may be referenced to a specific user user device or combination thereof and maintained in the geographic database . It is further noted in certain embodiments that the subscription process may be coordinated with a subscription process of a given services accessed by a user.

The authentication process performed by the module may also include receiving and validating a login name and or user identification value as provided or established for a particular user during a subscription or registration process with the service provider. The login name and or user identification value may be received as input provided by the user from UE or other device via a graphical user interface to the point of interest platform e.g. as enabled by user interface module . Profile data pursuant to registration may be cross referenced as part of the login process. Alternatively the login process may be performed through automated association of profile settings maintained with an IP address a carrier detection signal of a user device mobile directory number MDN subscriber identity module SIM e.g. of a SIM card radio frequency identifier RFID tag or other identifier.

The authentication module may also be alerted of an input received via the user interface for indicating a user requested action. It is noted that the user interface module supports presentment of the user interface element for presenting such images while the authentication module interprets input provided to the user as they engage the point of interest platform . The authentication module is therefore configured to receive requests for generation of a map image with POI data via the service or application.

In one embodiment the context information processing module receives context information as gathered by the sensors of respective UE and or geographic database and or services . Once received the context information processing module analyzes the context information to determine the relative location time position and other information useful for generating a map in association with a specified location. Based on this determination the context information processing module triggers execution of the recommendation module .

The recommendation module recommends the codes based on the occurrence information of the one or more codes for the POI to the device users registered with the point of interest platform . As the context information processing module determines context information and processes them. Next the recommendation module recommends codes for POI based on the similarity of location information and or content information. In some embodiments the user may have identified certain code patterns to be associated with certain POIs hence the recommendation module may recommend code representation on the basis of such occurrence information for simplicity and easy identification. Further the recommendation module may recommend the point of interest platform to refrain from using similar code already used for a point of interest to avoid confusion. For instance if two points of interest have different location information and or content information but has similar codes then the recommendation module may recommend the point of interest platform to use different codes.

The coding module causes an abstraction of the one or more values the one or more other values the first location based record the second location based record or a combination thereof. Then the coding module determines one or more codes for representing the one or more values the one or more other values the first location based record the second location based record or a combination thereof.

In one embodiment the user interface module enables presentment of a graphical user interface for presenting map images in connection with a selected POI. By way of example the user interface module generates the user interface element in response to detection of an input for selection of POI in a map. As another example the user interface module enables highlighting of POI with determined codes presented via the user interface. Of note the user interface module triggers execution of the various other modules including the authentication module in response to user input. The user interface module employs various application programming interfaces APIs or other function calls corresponding to the application of UE thus enabling the display of graphics primitives such as menus buttons data entry fields etc. for generating the user interface elements.

In one embodiment a communication module enables formation of a session over a communication network between the point of interest platform and the services . By way of example the communication module executes various protocols and data sharing techniques for enabling collaborative execution between a subscriber s UE and the point of interest platform over the communication network .

The presentation module makes a presentation of the map with determined POI with their respective codes highlighted therein upon receiving the data from communication module . The presentation module may utilize the geographic database and or services to determine whether the information for POI is up to date. This module obtains a set of summary statistics from other modules. Then the module continues with generating a presentation corresponding to the POI and continues with providing of presentation data set where the presentation could be depicted in one or more visual display units.

The above presented modules and components of the point of interest platform can be implemented in hardware firmware software or a combination thereof. Though depicted as a separate entity in it is contemplated that the point of interest platform may be implemented for direct operation by respective UE . As such the point of interest platform may generate direct signal inputs by way of the operating system of the UE for interacting with the application . In another embodiment one or more of the modules may be implemented for operation by respective UEs as a point of interest platform or combination thereof. Still further the point of interest platform may be integrated for direct operation with services such as in the form of a widget or applet in accordance with an information and or subscriber sharing arrangement. The various executions presented herein contemplate any and all arrangements and models.

The control logic executes at least one algorithm for executing functions at the presentation module . For example the control logic may interact with the route module to receive one or more geo routes associated with one or more UEs . In one embodiment the route module may determine one or more geo routes using historical and or predicted user information such as the daily work commute traveled by one or more UEs . With the one or more geo routes the control logic and the proximity module may determine proximity information of one or more UEs to one or more POI. The control logic and the proximity module may determine proximity information that includes at least in part location temporal contextual proximity information or a combination thereof.

The data module may provide the control logic with POI information while the selection module may select the determined POI based at least in part on the proximity information determined by the proximity module . For instance the selected POI with one or more geo routes and or one or more location anchors within a certain proximity threshold of one or more UEs may be chosen out of all the other POI. Alternately the control logic and selection module may sort the one or more POI based on proximity information. For example in one scenario the control logic and selection module may determine to select the top ten POIs that are geographically closest to a UE .

In one embodiment the selection module may select the one or more POI based at least in part on the location information. For instance one or more POI information may be selected because the history of geo routes indicates that they will soon be proximate location e.g. regardless of whether the UEs are already in the location as the predicted user information suggests that UEs may soon be within the vicinity . Further the selection module may determine one or more predicted locations of a user based at least in part on the ease of access from a location associated with the UEs . Further the selection module may interact with other modules of point of interest platform to direct the one or more UEs to determined codes for respective POI contents. For example the control logic and application may work together to determine navigation guidance information to cause at least in part a presentation of the one or more POI with their determined codes.

In exemplary embodiments the road segment data records are links or segments representing roads streets or paths as can be used in the calculated route or recorded route information for determination of one or more personalized routes according to exemplary embodiments. The node data records are end points corresponding to the respective links or segments of the road segment data records . The road link data records and the node data records represent a road network such as used by vehicles cars and or other entities. Alternatively the geographic database can contain path segment and node data records or other data that represent pedestrian paths or areas in addition to or instead of the vehicle road record data for example.

The road link segments and nodes can be associated with attributes such as geographic coordinates street names address ranges speed limits turn restrictions at intersections and other navigation related attributes as well as POIs such as gasoline stations hotels restaurants museums stadiums offices automobile dealerships auto repair shops buildings stores parks etc. The geographic database can include data about the POIs and their respective locations in the POI data records . The geographic database can also include data about places such as cities towns or other communities and other geographic features such as bodies of water mountain ranges etc. Such place or feature data can be part of the POI data records or can be associated with POIs or POI data records such as a data point used for displaying or representing a position of a city . In addition the geographic database can include data from radio advertisements associated with the POI data records and their respective locations in the radio generated POI records . By way of example the POI is determined from the user interaction with the UE and the content information associated with UE according to the various embodiments described herein.

The geographic database can be maintained by the content provider in association with the services platform e.g. a map developer . The map developer can collect geographic data to generate and enhance the geographic database . There can be different ways used by the map developer to collect data. These ways can include obtaining data from other sources such as municipalities or respective geographic authorities. In addition the map developer can employ field personnel to travel by vehicle along roads throughout the geographic region to observe features and or record information about them for example. Also remote sensing such as aerial or satellite photography can be used.

The geographic database can be a master geographic database stored in a format that facilitates updating maintenance and development. For example the master geographic database or data in the master geographic database can be in an Oracle spatial format or other spatial format such as for development or production purposes. The Oracle spatial format or development production database can be compiled into a delivery format such as a geographic data files GDF format. The data in the production and or delivery formats can be compiled or further compiled to form geographic database products or databases which can be used in end user navigation devices or systems.

For example geographic data is compiled such as into a platform specification format PSF format to organize and or configure the data for performing navigation related functions and or services such as route calculation route guidance map display speed calculation distance and travel time functions and other functions by a navigation device such as by a UE for example. The navigation related functions can correspond to vehicle navigation pedestrian navigation or other types of navigation. The compilation to produce the end user databases can be performed by a party or entity separate from the map developer. For example a customer of the map developer such as a navigation device developer or other end user device developer can perform compilation on a received geographic database in a delivery format to produce one or more compiled navigation databases.

As mentioned above the geographic database can be a master geographic database but in alternate embodiments the geographic database can represent a compiled navigation database that can be used in or with end user devices e.g. UEs to provided navigation related functions. For example the geographic database can be used with the end user device to provide an end user with navigation features. In such a case the geographic database can be downloaded or stored on the end user device UE such as in applications or the end user device UE can access the geographic database through a wireless or wired connection such as via a server and or the communication network for example.

In one embodiment the end user device or UE can be an in vehicle navigation system a personal navigation device PND a portable navigation device a cellular telephone a mobile phone a personal digital assistant PDA a watch a camera a computer and or other device that can perform navigation related functions such as digital routing and map display. In one embodiment the navigation device UE can be a cellular telephone. An end user can use the device UE for navigation functions such as guidance and map display for example and for determination of one or more personalized routes or route segments based on one or more calculated and recorded routes according to exemplary embodiments.

In step the point of interest platform determines a first location based record associated with at least one device wherein the first location based record includes at least in part one or more fields containing one or more values the method further comprising causing at least in part a specification of one or more other values of one or more other fields of the second location based record relative to the one or more values. In one embodiment the point of interest platform processes content information associated with at least one POI to determine one or more codes associated with the content information. The point of interest platform then determines at least one leader POI and one or more follower POI wherein the one or more follower POI includes at least one reference to the leader POI other follower POI or a combination. The point of interest platform causes an abstraction of various components of the content information associated with the at least one POI to the determined codes.

In step the point of interest platform causes at least in part a specification of a second location based record relative to the first location based record wherein the specification of the second location based record relative to the first location based record comprises reusing information associated first location based record to specify the second location based record. In addition the first location based record the second location based record or a combination thereof includes at least in part a point of interest record a contact record or a combination thereof. In one scenario the POI codes are associated with certain parameters of POI these codes are repeated when new POI comprises of such parameters. A relative referencing is used where second POI gets the relative details from the first POI. At the same time it is possible to break this cyclic referral chain and a cross referencing could be established where second POI seeks data from the first POI and sixth seventh and eighth POI may seek details from the third and the fourth POI. The point of interest platform causes at least in part a re usage of the one or more codes based at least in part on the similarity of components for the one or more content information associated with the at least one POI.

In step the point of interest platform causes at least in part a transmission of the second location based record to the at least one device wherein the transmission of the second location based record to the at least one device is based at least in part on the one or more codes. In one embodiment the point of interest platform causes at least in part a presentation in the UE of the one or more codes as a representation of the content information for the at least one POI.

In step the point of interest platform causes at least in part an abstraction of the one or more values the one or more other values the first location based record the second location based record or a combination thereof. This process of abstraction comprises determining one or more codes for representing the one or more values the one or more other values the first location based record the second location based record or a combination thereof and wherein the abstraction of a first one of the one or more values the one or more other values or a combination thereof is used independently of the abstraction of a second one of the one or more values the one or more other values or a combination thereof. In one embodiment the point of interest platform may determine at least in parts popular components within the content information and cause at least in parts an abstraction of the determined popular content enabling cross referencing of such abstracted content information between the POIs.

In step the point of interest platform determines the one or more codes based at least in part one or more geographic areas associated with the first location based record the second location based record or a combination thereof. The determined codes may be independent from each other such that each component of the content information for POI has a unique code. Further such unique code makes it possible for one or more follower POI to be interdependent to each other.

In step the point of interest platform causes at least in part a preloading of the one or more codes at the at least one device. In one embodiment the point of interest platform makes it possible to preload maps and gives the users the latest location content. As a result the users are able to relate to the offline available database to the online updated content.

In step the point of interest platform determines the first location based record the second location based record or a combination thereof based at least in part on location information associated with the at least one device. In one scenario whenever a user needs to go to several destinations the user may use his mobile phone to use the navigation services for directions. The point of interest platform processes the relevant POIs and determines the first location based record and the second location based record based on the content information associated with UE . Such determination makes it possible to cause at least in part a reference to the determined one or more codes for the content information of the at least one POI.

As illustrated a user sends an abstraction request from UE to the point of interest platform . The point of interest platform then communicates with several services such as the services and or content providers and or geographic database for relevant content information. Next the point of interest platform finds the content information associated with the POI and processes them. The point of interest platform then converts them into codes and then associates the codes with the POI. Subsequently the point of interest platform then sends the determined codes to UE . The interface of UE displays the presentation of the one or more codes as visual representation for the POI user interface .

As shown in the user s device downloads POI Burger palace. The determined POI may possess the following information 

The point of interest platform by identifying this reference of the second POI 234345 in the first POI Burger palace which was downloaded on the user s device the point of interest platform can show the second POI on the map as well. This may be a longer chain and the second POI may have a third POI as a reference and so on.

Therefore by downloading only one POI on the user s device there may be the possibility to show the users numerous POIs this can enhance the user experience of the navigation application while saving data cost for the user.

In one embodiment the point of interest platform may cause an abstraction and may assign unique identifiers to very common locations and may link such unique identifiers to other different POIs or locations. In one scenario ABC road may be present in numerous locations. The point of interest platform may identify such popular parts of the POI to avoid duplication by creating one unique ID for the part of the POI. This would save data transfer charges for users and faster performance for maps application. Such cross referencing parts of POI s abstractions in other POIs makes it possible for the users of UE to access POI information with minimum data exchange.

In one scenario there may be numerous POIs in a close geographic area represented in user interface and and each POI may have an average of six attributes 1. Name 2. number 3. street name 4. area name 5. city 6. zip . As illustrated the first POI may have two set of codes 987345 representing 1cross and 234345 representing the remaining location information. Therefore when a user downloads the POIs in the same area only the first POI has all attributes from the server. The second POI has Name number ref to first POI attribute 3 4 5 6 . The remaining POIs have Name ref to second POI for 2 and 3 ref to first POI for 4 5 and 6 . The value proposition is that instead of simply giving a unique ID to the whole POI the point of interest platform abstract each of these components to unique set of codes. The first POI termed as the leader POI carries most of the attributes to the user s device and then the rest of the POIs termed as the Follower POIs may try and re use as much information as they can. In addition there is an interdependent relationship between the two or more follower POIs. In such manner coded information can be re used for all relevant POIs.

In another embodiment it is common to find similar street names in multiple cities. As illustrated maps can save a lot of data and processing by using one code for similar street name ID across multiple cities. For instance Ayyappa reddy layout may be present in all major cities and the maps application are using lot of data for generating similar information resulting in redundancy of data already present in Maps. Such tactics may be applicable to similar business names for instance there may be numerous XYZ franchises the current Maps stores each of these POI individually. However huge amount of data may be saved by creating one unique ID for word XYZ . The invention proposes to simplify the process saving data transfer charges for user and faster performance for Maps.

The processes described herein for causing transmission of specification of a second location based record relative to the determined first location based record to the at least one device may be advantageously implemented via software hardware firmware or a combination of software and or firmware and or hardware. For example the processes described herein may be advantageously implemented via processor s Digital Signal Processing DSP chip an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs etc. Such exemplary hardware for performing the described functions is detailed below.

A bus includes one or more parallel conductors of information so that information is transferred quickly among devices coupled to the bus . One or more processors for processing information are coupled with the bus .

A processor or multiple processors performs a set of operations on information as specified by computer program code related to cause transmission of specification of a second location based record relative to the determined first location based record to the at least one device. The computer program code is a set of instructions or statements providing instructions for the operation of the processor and or the computer system to perform specified functions. The code for example may be written in a computer programming language that is compiled into a native instruction set of the processor. The code may also be written directly using the native instruction set e.g. machine language . The set of operations include bringing information in from the bus and placing information on the bus . The set of operations also typically include comparing two or more units of information shifting positions of units of information and combining two or more units of information such as by addition or multiplication or logical operations like OR exclusive OR XOR and AND. Each operation of the set of operations that can be performed by the processor is represented to the processor by information called instructions such as an operation code of one or more digits. A sequence of operations to be executed by the processor such as a sequence of operation codes constitute processor instructions also called computer system instructions or simply computer instructions. Processors may be implemented as mechanical electrical magnetic optical chemical or quantum components among others alone or in combination.

Computer system also includes a memory coupled to bus . The memory such as a random access memory RAM or any other dynamic storage device stores information including processor instructions for causing transmission of specification of a second location based record relative to the determined first location based record to the at least one device. Dynamic memory allows information stored therein to be changed by the computer system . RAM allows a unit of information stored at a location called a memory address to be stored and retrieved independently of information at neighboring addresses. The memory is also used by the processor to store temporary values during execution of processor instructions. The computer system also includes a read only memory ROM or any other static storage device coupled to the bus for storing static information including instructions that is not changed by the computer system . Some memory is composed of volatile storage that loses the information stored thereon when power is lost. Also coupled to bus is a non volatile persistent storage device such as a magnetic disk optical disk or flash card for storing information including instructions that persists even when the computer system is turned off or otherwise loses power.

Information including instructions for causing transmission of specification of a second location based record relative to the determined first location based record to the at least one device is provided to the bus for use by the processor from an external input device such as a keyboard containing alphanumeric keys operated by a human user a microphone an Infrared IR remote control a joystick a game pad a stylus pen a touch screen or a sensor. A sensor detects conditions in its vicinity and transforms those detections into physical expression compatible with the measurable phenomenon used to represent information in computer system . Other external devices coupled to bus used primarily for interacting with humans include a display device such as a cathode ray tube CRT a liquid crystal display LCD a light emitting diode LED display an organic LED OLED display a plasma screen or a printer for presenting text or images and a pointing device such as a mouse a trackball cursor direction keys or a motion sensor for controlling a position of a small cursor image presented on the display and issuing commands associated with graphical elements presented on the display and one or more camera sensors for capturing recording and causing to store one or more still and or moving images e.g. videos movies etc. which also may comprise audio recordings. In some embodiments for example in embodiments in which the computer system performs all functions automatically without human input one or more of external input device display device and pointing device may be omitted.

In the illustrated embodiment special purpose hardware such as an application specific integrated circuit ASIC is coupled to bus . The special purpose hardware is configured to perform operations not performed by processor quickly enough for special purposes. Examples of ASICs include graphics accelerator cards for generating images for display cryptographic boards for encrypting and decrypting messages sent over a network speech recognition and interfaces to special external devices such as robotic arms and medical scanning equipment that repeatedly perform some complex sequence of operations that are more efficiently implemented in hardware.

Computer system also includes one or more instances of a communications interface coupled to bus . Communication interface provides a one way or two way communication coupling to a variety of external devices that operate with their own processors such as printers scanners and external disks. In general the coupling is with a network link that is connected to a local network to which a variety of external devices with their own processors are connected. For example communication interface may be a parallel port or a serial port or a universal serial bus USB port on a personal computer. In some embodiments communications interface is an integrated services digital network ISDN card or a digital subscriber line DSL card or a telephone modem that provides an information communication connection to a corresponding type of telephone line. In some embodiments a communication interface is a cable modem that converts signals on bus into signals for a communication connection over a coaxial cable or into optical signals for a communication connection over a fiber optic cable. As another example communications interface may be a local area network LAN card to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN such as Ethernet. Wireless links may also be implemented. For wireless links the communications interface sends or receives or both sends and receives electrical acoustic or electromagnetic signals including infrared and optical signals that carry information streams such as digital data. For example in wireless handheld devices such as mobile telephones like cell phones the communications interface includes a radio band electromagnetic transmitter and receiver called a radio transceiver. In certain embodiments the communications interface enables connection to the communication network for causing transmission of specification of a second location based record relative to the determined first location based record to the at least one device to the UE .

The term computer readable medium as used herein refers to any medium that participates in providing information to processor including instructions for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to computer readable storage medium e.g. non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non transitory media such as non volatile media include for example optical or magnetic disks such as storage device . Volatile media include for example dynamic memory . Transmission media include for example twisted pair cables coaxial cables copper wire fiber optic cables and carrier waves that travel through space without wires or cables such as acoustic waves and electromagnetic waves including radio optical and infrared waves. Signals include man made transient variations in amplitude frequency phase polarization or other physical properties transmitted through the transmission media. Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM CDRW DVD any other optical medium punch cards paper tape optical mark sheets any other physical medium with patterns of holes or other optically recognizable indicia a RAM a PROM an EPROM a FLASH EPROM an EEPROM a flash memory any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read. The term computer readable storage medium is used herein to refer to any computer readable medium except transmission media.

Logic encoded in one or more tangible media includes one or both of processor instructions on a computer readable storage media and special purpose hardware such as ASIC .

Network link typically provides information communication using transmission media through one or more networks to other devices that use or process the information. For example network link may provide a connection through local network to a host computer or to equipment operated by an Internet Service Provider ISP . ISP equipment in turn provides data communication services through the public world wide packet switching communication network of networks now commonly referred to as the Internet .

A computer called a server host connected to the Internet hosts a process that provides a service in response to information received over the Internet. For example server host hosts a process that provides information representing video data for presentation at display . It is contemplated that the components of system can be deployed in various configurations within other computer systems e.g. host and server .

At least some embodiments of the invention are related to the use of computer system for implementing some or all of the techniques described herein. According to one embodiment of the invention those techniques are performed by computer system in response to processor executing one or more sequences of one or more processor instructions contained in memory . Such instructions also called computer instructions software and program code may be read into memory from another computer readable medium such as storage device or network link . Execution of the sequences of instructions contained in memory causes processor to perform one or more of the method steps described herein. In alternative embodiments hardware such as ASIC may be used in place of or in combination with software to implement the invention. Thus embodiments of the invention are not limited to any specific combination of hardware and software unless otherwise explicitly stated herein.

The signals transmitted over network link and other networks through communications interface carry information to and from computer system . Computer system can send and receive information including program code through the networks among others through network link and communications interface . In an example using the Internet a server host transmits program code for a particular application requested by a message sent from computer through Internet ISP equipment local network and communications interface . The received code may be executed by processor as it is received or may be stored in memory or in storage device or any other non volatile storage for later execution or both. In this manner computer system may obtain application program code in the form of signals on a carrier wave.

Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying one or more sequence of instructions or data or both to processor for execution. For example instructions and data may initially be carried on a magnetic disk of a remote computer such as host . The remote computer loads the instructions and data into its dynamic memory and sends the instructions and data over a telephone line using a modem. A modem local to the computer system receives the instructions and data on a telephone line and uses an infra red transmitter to convert the instructions and data to a signal on an infra red carrier wave serving as the network link . An infrared detector serving as communications interface receives the instructions and data carried in the infrared signal and places information representing the instructions and data onto bus . Bus carries the information to memory from which processor retrieves and executes the instructions using some of the data sent with the instructions. The instructions and data received in memory may optionally be stored on storage device either before or after execution by the processor .

In one embodiment the chip set or chip includes a communication mechanism such as a bus for passing information among the components of the chip set . A processor has connectivity to the bus to execute instructions and process information stored in for example a memory . The processor may include one or more processing cores with each core configured to perform independently. A multi core processor enables multiprocessing within a single physical package. Examples of a multi core processor include two four eight or greater numbers of processing cores. Alternatively or in addition the processor may include one or more microprocessors configured in tandem via the bus to enable independent execution of instructions pipelining and multithreading. The processor may also be accompanied with one or more specialized components to perform certain processing functions and tasks such as one or more digital signal processors DSP or one or more application specific integrated circuits ASIC . A DSP typically is configured to process real world signals e.g. sound in real time independently of the processor . Similarly an ASIC can be configured to performed specialized functions not easily performed by a more general purpose processor. Other specialized components to aid in performing the inventive functions described herein may include one or more field programmable gate arrays FPGA one or more controllers or one or more other special purpose computer chips.

In one embodiment the chip set or chip includes merely one or more processors and some software and or firmware supporting and or relating to and or for the one or more processors.

The processor and accompanying components have connectivity to the memory via the bus . The memory includes both dynamic memory e.g. RAM magnetic disk writable optical disk etc. and static memory e.g. ROM CD ROM etc. for storing executable instructions that when executed perform the inventive steps described herein to cause transmission of specification of a second location based record relative to the determined first location based record to the at least one device. The memory also stores the data associated with or generated by the execution of the inventive steps.

Pertinent internal components of the telephone include a Main Control Unit MCU a Digital Signal Processor DSP and a receiver transmitter unit including a microphone gain control unit and a speaker gain control unit. A main display unit provides a display to the user in support of various applications and mobile terminal functions that perform or support the steps of causing transmission of specification of a second location based record relative to the determined first location based record to the at least one device. The display includes display circuitry configured to display at least a portion of a user interface of the mobile terminal e.g. mobile telephone . Additionally the display and display circuitry are configured to facilitate user control of at least some functions of the mobile terminal. An audio function circuitry includes a microphone and microphone amplifier that amplifies the speech signal output from the microphone . The amplified speech signal output from the microphone is fed to a coder decoder CODEC .

A radio section amplifies power and converts frequency in order to communicate with a base station which is included in a mobile communication system via antenna . The power amplifier PA and the transmitter modulation circuitry are operationally responsive to the MCU with an output from the PA coupled to the duplexer or circulator or antenna switch as known in the art. The PA also couples to a battery interface and power control unit .

In use a user of mobile terminal speaks into the microphone and his or her voice along with any detected background noise is converted into an analog voltage. The analog voltage is then converted into a digital signal through the Analog to Digital Converter ADC . The control unit routes the digital signal into the DSP for processing therein such as speech encoding channel encoding encrypting and interleaving. In one embodiment the processed voice signals are encoded by units not separately shown using a cellular transmission protocol such as enhanced data rates for global evolution EDGE general packet radio service GPRS global system for mobile communications GSM Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS etc. as well as any other suitable wireless medium e.g. microwave access WiMAX Long Term Evolution LTE networks code division multiple access CDMA wideband code division multiple access WCDMA wireless fidelity WiFi satellite and the like or any combination thereof.

The encoded signals are then routed to an equalizer for compensation of any frequency dependent impairments that occur during transmission though the air such as phase and amplitude distortion. After equalizing the bit stream the modulator combines the signal with a RF signal generated in the RF interface . The modulator generates a sine wave by way of frequency or phase modulation. In order to prepare the signal for transmission an up converter combines the sine wave output from the modulator with another sine wave generated by a synthesizer to achieve the desired frequency of transmission. The signal is then sent through a PA to increase the signal to an appropriate power level. In practical systems the PA acts as a variable gain amplifier whose gain is controlled by the DSP from information received from a network base station. The signal is then filtered within the duplexer and optionally sent to an antenna coupler to match impedances to provide maximum power transfer. Finally the signal is transmitted via antenna to a local base station. An automatic gain control AGC can be supplied to control the gain of the final stages of the receiver. The signals may be forwarded from there to a remote telephone which may be another cellular telephone any other mobile phone or a land line connected to a Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN or other telephony networks.

Voice signals transmitted to the mobile terminal are received via antenna and immediately amplified by a low noise amplifier LNA . A down converter lowers the carrier frequency while the demodulator strips away the RF leaving only a digital bit stream. The signal then goes through the equalizer and is processed by the DSP . A Digital to Analog Converter DAC converts the signal and the resulting output is transmitted to the user through the speaker all under control of a Main Control Unit MCU which can be implemented as a Central Processing Unit CPU .

The MCU receives various signals including input signals from the keyboard . The keyboard and or the MCU in combination with other user input components e.g. the microphone comprise a user interface circuitry for managing user input. The MCU runs a user interface software to facilitate user control of at least some functions of the mobile terminal to cause transmission of specification of a second location based record relative to the determined first location based record to the at least one device. The MCU also delivers a display command and a switch command to the display and to the speech output switching controller respectively. Further the MCU exchanges information with the DSP and can access an optionally incorporated SIM card and a memory . In addition the MCU executes various control functions required of the terminal. The DSP may depending upon the implementation perform any of a variety of conventional digital processing functions on the voice signals. Additionally DSP determines the background noise level of the local environment from the signals detected by microphone and sets the gain of microphone to a level selected to compensate for the natural tendency of the user of the mobile terminal .

The CODEC includes the ADC and DAC . The memory stores various data including call incoming tone data and is capable of storing other data including music data received via e.g. the global Internet. The software module could reside in RAM memory flash memory registers or any other form of writable storage medium known in the art. The memory device may be but not limited to a single memory CD DVD ROM RAM EEPROM optical storage magnetic disk storage flash memory storage or any other non volatile storage medium capable of storing digital data.

An optionally incorporated SIM card carries for instance important information such as the cellular phone number the carrier supplying service subscription details and security information. The SIM card serves primarily to identify the mobile terminal on a radio network. The card also contains a memory for storing a personal telephone number registry text messages and user specific mobile terminal settings.

Further one or more camera sensors may be incorporated onto the mobile station wherein the one or more camera sensors may be placed at one or more locations on the mobile station. Generally the camera sensors may be utilized to capture record and cause to store one or more still and or moving images e.g. videos movies etc. which also may comprise audio recordings.

While the invention has been described in connection with a number of embodiments and implementations the invention is not so limited but covers various obvious modifications and equivalent arrangements which fall within the purview of the appended claims. Although features of the invention are expressed in certain combinations among the claims it is contemplated that these features can be arranged in any combination and order.

