---

title: ROR modulators and their uses
abstract: The invention relates to ROR modulators; compositions comprising an effective amount of a ROR modulator; and methods for treating or preventing diseases associated with ROR. The invention is based in part on the discovery of ROR modulators which interact with RORa and/or RORy and thereby inhibit or induce RORa and/or RORy-activity, and RORa- and/or RORy-regulated target gene and protein expression.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09321750&OS=09321750&RS=09321750
owner: INNOV17 LLC
number: 09321750
owner_city: Brooklyn
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130422
---
This application is a National Stage Application of PCT US2013 037600 filed Apr. 22 2013 which claims the priority benefit of U.S. Provisional Application Nos. 61 636 274 filed Apr. 20 2012 61 643 657 filed May 7 2012 61 653 155 filed May 30 2012 61 736 891 filed Dec. 13 2012 and 61 785 362 filed Mar. 14 2013. The entire disclosures of these applications are relied on for all purposes and are hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties.

The invention relates to Retinoic Acid Receptor Related Orphan Receptor ROR regulated diseases and disorders. More particularly the invention relates to ROR modulators compositions comprising an effective amount of a ROR modulator and methods for treating or preventing ROR regulated diseases and disorders.

There are high unmet medical needs in the few established therapies for several autoimmune inflammatory and metabolic diseases. Despite the diverse clinical manifestations of these diseases Retinoic Acid Receptor Related Orphan Receptors RORs regulate and contribute to the pathogenesis of these diseases through modulation of immune responses and lipid glucose homeostasis. Only recently has the critical regulatory role of RORs been well characterized and target validated in several animal models of some of these diseases.

RORs are transcription factors which belong to the nuclear hormone receptor superfamily Jetten 2009 7 e003 Jetten et al. 2013 . Lausanne 4 1 Jetten Joo 2006 16 313 355 . The ROR subfamily consists of three major isoforms ROR NR1F1 ROR NR1F2 and ROR NR1F3 encoded by the RORA RORB and RORC genes respectively. RORs are multidomain proteins that contain four principal domains typical of nuclear receptors a highly variable N terminal A B domain a highly conserved DNA binding domain DBD a ligand binding domain LBD that contains the ligand dependent activation function 2 AF 2 and a hinge domain between the DBD and LBD.

Each ROR gene through alternative splicing and promoter usage generates several ROR isoforms that differ only in their amino terminus.

In humans there are four ROR isoforms ROR 1 4 one ROR 1 isoform and two ROR isoforms ROR 1 and ROR 2 ROR t that are expressed in a highly tissue specific manner. ROR and ROR play an important role in the regulation of lipid glucose homeostasis cellular metabolism immune function and circadian rhythms and have been implicated in the pathogenesis of several autoimmune inflammatory and metabolic diseases Burris et al. 2012 19 51 59 Burris et al. 2013 65 710 778 Huh Littman 2012 42 2232 2237 Jetten 2009 7 e003 Jetten Kang and Takeda 2013 . Lausanne 4 1 . Synthetic ligands have been described that interact with the RORa and RORy LBD functioning as a switch that induces a ROR LBD conformational change.

Such change promotes the recruitment and displacement of regulatory coactivator and corepressor proteins and upon ROR DBD binding to the ROR responsive element of the target genes lead to the induction or inhibition of ROR regulated gene transcriptional activity. Therefore small molecule drugs that bind to the nuclear receptor LBDs such as ROR could elicit a variety of pharmacological responses including activation agonists inactivation antagonists or non agonists and for receptors that are constitutively active ligands can downregulate the constitutive response inverse agonists .

ROR t is the master regulator of human T Helper 17 T17 cell differentiation function and cytokine production Ivanov et al. 2006 126 1121 1133 . The critical role of T17 cells in the pathogenesis of autoimmune and inflammatory diseases has been established and is conferred by the production of its signature proinflammatory cytokines IL 17A IL 17F IL 17AF IL 21 IL 22 Ghoreschi et al. 2010 467 967 971 Lee et al. 2012 13 991 999 Miossec et al. 2009 361 888 898 Miossec Kolls 2012 11 763 776 Zepp et al. 2011 32 232 239 . Although several transcription factors regulate T17 T and innate lymphoid cells as important sources of T17 cytokines these cells are distinguished by its specific regulation of ROR t for cytokine transcriptional output and effector functions and to a lesser extent by ROR in humans Cua Tato 2010 10 479 489 Huh and Littman 2012 42 2232 2237 Ivanov McKenzie Zhou Tadokoro Lepelley Lafaille Cua and Littman 2006 126 1121 1133 Spits Di Santo 2011 12 21 27 Sutton et al. 2012 42 2221 2231 . Also in several autoimmune disease models there is a relative imbalance of increased T17 cells over low numbers of immunosuppressive CD4CD25Foxp3 regulatory T cells T Edwards et al. 2011 258 1518 1527 Littman Rudensky 2010 140 845 858 . Targeting ROR t could have a broader anti inflammatory effect on the combined inhibition of all T17 cytokine production and inflammatory cellular function and in the induction and expansion of suppressive Tcells important in autoimmune and inflammatory disease resolution and may also have therapeutic potential in metabolic diseases such as diet induced insulin resistance known to be regulated by ROR .

Since both ROR 1 and ROR t ROR 1 protein isoforms contain identical LBDs small molecule ROR modulators that inhibit ROR t activity will also inhibit ROR . ROR similarly plays an important regulatory role in the pathogenesis of autoimmune and inflammatory disorders and also in metabolic diseases.

ROR critically regulates lipid and glucose homeostasis and cellular metabolism that contribute to the development of metabolic diseases. The therapeutic benefits of inhibiting ROR for metabolic diseases is associated with diminished inflammation and downregulated expression of ROR target genes as seen in ROR deficient mice. As ligand dependent transcription factors it is desirable to prepare compounds that modulate ROR and or ROR activity which can be used in the treatment of ROR and or ROR regulated autoimmune inflammatory and metabolic diseases.

The invention is based in part on the discovery of ROR modulators which interact with ROR and or ROR and thereby inhibit or induce ROR and or ROR activity and ROR and or ROR regulated target gene and protein expression. The invention is also based on compositions comprising an effective amount of a ROR modulator and methods for treating or preventing disorders regulated by ROR and or ROR comprising the administration of an effective amount of a ROR modulator.

each Ris independently H alkyl or aryl or two Rcan be taken together to form a 4 7 membered ring optionally incorporating an additional N O S atom wherein the 4 7 membered ring is optionally substituted with C1 C4 alkyl halogen OH CN halogen and N R 

Rand Rare independently selected from H halogen or C1 C4 alkyl optionally substituted with halogen OH CN N R or Rand R taken together may form a 4 7 membered saturated or unsaturated ring optionally incorporating 1 3 N O or S atoms wherein the 4 7 membered ring is optionally substituted with C1 C4 alkyl halogen OH carbonyl CN halogen or N R or Rand R can be taken together to form a carbonyl 

The details of the invention are set forth in the accompanying description below. Although methods and materials similar or equivalent to those described herein can be used in the practice or testing of the present invention illustrative methods and materials are now described. Other features objects and advantages of the invention will be apparent from the description and from the claims. In the specification and the appended claims the singular forms also include the plural unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Unless defined otherwise all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs. All patents and publications cited in this specification are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.

The invention is based in part on the discovery of ROR modulators which interact with ROR and or ROR and thereby inhibit or induce ROR and or ROR activity and ROR and or ROR regulated target gene and protein expression. The invention is also based on compositions comprising an effective amount of a ROR modulator and methods for treating or preventing disorders regulated by ROR and or ROR comprising the administration of an effective amount of a ROR modulator.

 ROR modulator refers to a chemical compound that modulates either directly or indirectly the activity of ROR . ROR modulators include antagonists non agonists inverse agonists and agonists of ROR .

 ROR modulator refers to a chemical compound that modulates either directly or indirectly the activity of ROR . ROR modulators include antagonists non agonists inverse agonists and agonists of ROR .

The term ROR modulator includes any and all possible isomers stereoisomers enantiomers diastereomers tautomers pharmaceutically acceptable salts hydrates solvates and prodrugs of the ROR modulators described herein.

The articles a and an are used in this disclosure to refer to one or more than one i.e. to at least one of the grammatical object of the article. By way of example an element means one element or more than one element.

Unless otherwise specifically defined the term aryl refers to cyclic aromatic hydrocarbon groups that have 1 to 2 aromatic rings including monocyclic or bicyclic groups such as phenyl biphenyl or naphthyl. Where containing two aromatic rings bicyclic etc. the aromatic rings of the aryl group may be joined at a single point e.g. biphenyl or fused e.g. naphthyl . The aryl group may be optionally substituted by one or more substituents e.g. 1 to 5 substituents at any point of attachment. The substituents can themselves be optionally substituted.

 C Calkyl refers to a straight or branched chain saturated hydrocarbon containing 1 3 carbon atoms. Examples of a C Calkyl group include but are not limited to methyl ethyl propyl and isopropyl.

 C Calkyl refers to a straight or branched chain saturated hydrocarbon containing 1 4 carbon atoms. Examples of a C Calkyl group include but are not limited to methyl ethyl propyl butyl isopropyl isobutyl sec butyl and tert butyl.

 C Calkyl refers to a straight or branched chain saturated hydrocarbon containing 1 5 carbon atoms. Examples of a C Calkyl group include but are not limited to methyl ethyl propyl butyl pentyl isopropyl isobutyl sec butyl and tert butyl isopentyl and neopentyl.

 C Calkyl refers to a straight or branched chain saturated hydrocarbon containing 1 6 carbon atoms. Examples of a C Calkyl group include but are not limited to methyl ethyl propyl butyl pentyl hexyl isopropyl isobutyl sec butyl tert butyl isopentyl and neopentyl.

 Acyl refers to groups of from 1 to 6 carbon atoms of a straight branched cyclic configuration saturated unsaturated and aromatic and combinations thereof attached to the parent structure through a carbonyl functionality. One or more carbons in the acyl residue may be replaced by nitrogen oxygen or sulfur as long as the point of attachment to the parent remains at the carbonyl. Examples include acetyl Ac benzoyl propionyl isobutyryl t butoxycarbonyl benzyloxycarbonyl and the like. Lower acyl refers to groups containing one to four carbons.

The terms monocyclic or bicyclic aryl or an monocyclic or bicyclic heteroaryl as used herein include but are not limited to indolyl isoindolyl isoindolinyl indazolyl benzofuranyl benzothienyl benzothiazolyl benzothiazolonyl benzoxazolyl benzoxazolonyl benzisoxazolyl benzisothiazolyl benzimidazolyl benzimidazolonyl benzotriazolyl imidazopyridinyl dihydropurinonyl pyrrolopyrimidinyl purinyl pyrazolopyridinyl pyrazolopyrimidinyl phthalimidyl phthalimidinyl pyrazinylpyridinyl pyridinopyrimidinyl pyrimidinopyrimidinyl cinnolinyl quinoxalinyl quinazolinyl quinolinyl isoquinolinyl quinolonyl isoquinolonyl phthalazinyl benzodioxyl indolinyl dihydroquinolinyl tetrahydroquinolinyl dihydroisoquinolyl tetrahydroisoquinolinyl benzoazepinyl benzodiazepinyl benzoxapinyl benzoxazepinyl phenyl naphthyl pyrrolyl furyl thienyl oxazolyl thiazolyl isoxazolyl isothiazolyl imidazolyl pyrazolyl oxadiazolyl thiadiazolyl triazolyl tetrazolyl pyridinyl pyrimidinyl pyrazinyl pyridazinyl and triazinyl.

The term cycloalkyl refers to a cyclic hydrocarbon containing 3 6 carbon atoms. Examples of a cycloalkyl group include but are not limited to cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl and cyclohexyl. It is understood that any of the substitutable hydrogens on a cycloalkyl can be substituted with halogen C Calkyl hydroxyl alkoxy and cyano groups.

The term heterocycle as used herein refers to a cyclic hydrocarbon containing 3 6 atoms wherein at least one of the atoms is an O N or S wherein a monocyclic heterocycle may contain up to two double bonds. Examples of heterocycles include but are not limited to aziridine oxirane thiirane azetidine oxetane thietane pyrrolidine tetrahydrofuran tetrahydrothiophene piperidine tetrahydropyran thiane imidazolidine oxazolidine thiazolidine dioxolane dithiolane piperazine oxazine dithiane and dioxane.

A subject is a mammal e.g. a human mouse rat guinea pig dog cat horse cow pig or non human primate such as a monkey chimpanzee baboon or rhesus and the terms subject and patient are used interchangeably herein.

The invention also includes pharmaceutical compositions comprising an effective amount of a ROR modulator and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. The invention includes a ROR modulator provided as a pharmaceutically acceptable prodrug hydrate salt such as a pharmaceutically acceptable salt enantiomers stereoisomers or mixtures thereof

Representative pharmaceutically acceptable salts include e.g. water soluble and water insoluble salts such as the acetate amsonate 4 4 diaminostilbene 2 2 disulfonate benzenesulfonate benzonate bicarbonate bisulfate bitartrate borate bromide butyrate calcium calcium edetate camsylate carbonate chloride citrate clavulariate dihydrochloride edetate edisylate estolate esylate fiunarate gluceptate gluconate glutamate glycollylarsanilate hexafluorophosphate hexylresorcinate hydrabamine hydrobromide hydrochloride hydroxynaphthoate iodide isothionate lactate lactobionate laurate magnesium malate maleate mandelate mesylate methylbromide methylnitrate methylsulfate mucate napsylate nitrate N methylglucamine ammonium salt 3 hydroxy 2 naphthoate oleate oxalate palmitate pamoate 1 1 methene bis 2 hydroxy 3 naphthoate einbonate pantothenate phosphate diphosphate picrate polygalacturonate propionate p toluenesulfonate salicylate stearate subacetate succinate sulfate sulfosalicylate suramate tannate tartrate teoclate tosylate triethiodide and valerate salts.

An effective amount when used in connection with a ROR modulator is an amount effective for treating or preventing a ROR regulated disease or disorder.

The term carrier as used in this disclosure encompasses carriers excipients and diluents and means a material composition or vehicle such as a liquid or solid filler diluent excipient solvent or encapsulating material involved in carrying or transporting a pharmaceutical agent from one organ or portion of the body to another organ or portion of the body.

The term treating with regard to a subject refers to improving at least one symptom of the subject s disorder. Treating can be curing improving or at least partially ameliorating the disorder.

The term disorder is used in this disclosure to mean and is used interchangeably with the terms disease condition or illness unless otherwise indicated.

The term administer administering or administration as used in this disclosure refers to either directly administering a compound or pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the compound or a composition to a subject or administering a prodrug derivative or analog of the compound or pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the compound or composition to the subject which can form an equivalent amount of active compound within the subject s body.

The term prodrug as used in this disclosure means a compound which is convertible in vivo by metabolic means e.g. by hydrolysis to a ROR modulator.

The term optionally substituted as used in this disclosure means a suitable substituent can replace a hydrogen bound to a carbon nitrogen or oxygen. When a substituent is oxo i.e. O then 2 hydrogens on the atom are replaced by a single O. Suitable substituents are selected from the following which include but are not limited to hydroxyl halogen perfluorinated C Calkyl amine C Calkyl C Calkene C Calkyne C Calkyl cycloalkyl aryl alkyl aryl C O H C O OH C O alkyl C O O alkyl C O NH alkyl benzyl C O NH C O N alkyl NHC O H NHC O alkyl SO alkyl SONH SONH alkyl SON alkyl S CN and SCN. It will be understood by those skilled in the art with respect to any group containing one or more substituents that such groups are not intended to introduce any substitution or substitution patterns that are sterically impractical synthetically non feasible and or inherently unstable. Furthermore combinations of substituents and or variables within any of the Formulae represented herein are permissible only if such combinations result in stable compounds or useful synthetic intermediates wherein stable implies a reasonable pharmologically relevant half life at physiological conditions.

The following abbreviations are used herein and have the indicated definitions ACTB is actin AF 2 is activation function 2 AIBN is azobisisobutyronitrile Boc and BOC are tert butoxycarbonyl BocO is di tert butyl dicarbonate BSA is bovine serum albumin CD is cluster of differentiation CDI is 1 1 carbonyldiimidazole DBD is DNA binding domain DCC is N N dicyclohexylcarbodiimide DIEA and DIPEA is N N diisopropylethylamine DMAP is 4 dimethylaminopyridine DMEM is Dulbecco s Modified Eagle Medium DMF is N N dimethylformamide DMSO is dimethyl sulfoxide DOSS is sodium dioctyl sulfosuccinate ECis half maximal effective concentration EDC and EDCI are 1 ethyl 3 3 dimethylaminopropyl carbodiimide hydrochloride ELISA is enzyme linked immunosorbent assay EtOAc is ethyl acetate FBS is fetal bovine serum FOXP3 is forkhead box P3 G CSF is granulocyte colony stimulating factor h is hour HATU is 2 7 aza 1H benzotriazole 1 yl 1 1 3 3 tetramethyluronium hexafluorophosphate HIV is human immunodeficiency virus HOBt is 1 Hydroxybenzotriazole HPMC is hydroxypropyl methylcellulose HPRT1 is hypoxanthine phosphoribosyltransferase 1 ICis half maximal inhibitory concentration IFN is interferon gamma IL is interleukin IL 23R is interleukin 23 receptor LAH is lithium aluminum hydride LBD is ligand binding domain MIQE is minimum information for publication of quantitative real time PCR experiments MTBE is methyl tert butyl ether NBS is N bromosuccinnide NMP is N methyl 2 pyrrolidone oxone is potassium peroxymonosulfate PBMCs is peripheral blood mononuclear cells PCR is polymerase chain reaction Pd C is palladium on carbon PGK1 is phosphoglycerate kinase PPIA is peptidylprolyl isomerase A REST is Relative Expression Software Tool ROR is retinoic acid receptor related orphan receptor alpha ROR is retinoic acid receptor related orphan receptor gamma TBAB is tetrabutylammonium bromide TBP is terminal binding protein TFA is trifluoroacetic acid TFRC is transferrin receptor TGF 1 is transforming growth factor beta 1 T17 is T helper 17 cell TGPS is tocopherol propylene glycol succinate THF is tetrohydrofuran TLC is thin layer chromatography TR FRET is time resolved fluorescence resonance energy transfer and M is micromolar.

each Ris independently H alkyl or aryl or two Rcan be taken together to form a 4 7 membered ring optionally incorporating an additional N O S atom wherein the 4 7 membered ring is optionally substituted with C1 C4 alkyl halogen OH CN halogen or N R 

In another aspect methods of inhibiting preventing or treating a disease or symptoms of a disease regulated by ROR and or ROR are provided which comprises administering to a subject in need thereof a therapeutically effective amount of a ROR modulator. In some embodiments the disease regulated by ROR and or ROR is selected from Autoimmune Inflammatory and Metabolic Diseases including but not limited to angina pectoris myocardial infarction atherosclerosis cystic fibrosis gastritis autoimmune myositis giant cell arteritis Wegener s granulomatosis Asthma chronic obstructive pulmonary disease Rheumatoid arthritis Juvenile rheumatoid arthritis allergen induced lung inflammation allergy Psoriasis Psoriatic arthritis colitis inflammatory bowel disease Crohn s disease ulcerative colitis Sjogren s syndrome dry eye optic neuritis neuromyelitis optica Myasthenia gravis Guillain Barre syndrome Graves disease Multiple sclerosis autoimmune uveitis Ankylosing spondylitis organ transplant rejection polymyalgia rheumatic systemic lupus erythematosus cutaneus lupus lupus nephritis glomerulonephritis Diabetes mellitus type 1 pulmonary inflammation macular degeneration obesity non alcoholic fatty liver disease steatohepatitis insulin resistance Diabetes mellitus type 2 glucose intolerance and metabolic syndrome and Other Diseases including but not limited to multiple myeloma bone disease associated with multiple myeloma gastric cancer and colon cancer.

Also described are methods of modulating ROR and or ROR activity as an agonist inverse agonist or antagonist non agonist in a subject which comprises administering to a subject in need thereof a pharmaceutically effective amount of a ROR modulator.

Also described are methods of inducing or inhibiting ROR and or ROR regulated target gene expression and protein production in a subject which comprises administering to a subject in need thereof a pharmaceutically effective amount of a ROR modulator.

Also described are methods of regulating corepressor and or coactivator protein interaction with ROR and or ROR LBD in a subject which comprises administering to a subject in need thereof a pharmaceutically effective amount of a ROR modulator.

Also described are methods of reducing the amount of ROR and or ROR regulated production of T17 cytokines IL 17A IL 17F IL 17AF IL 21 and or IL 22 in a subject which comprises administering to a subject in need thereof a pharmaceutically effective amount of a ROR modulator.

Also described are methods of inducing or inhibiting either directly or indirectly ROR and or ROR regulated cell proliferation or activation in a subject which comprises administering to a subject in need thereof a pharmaceutically effective amount of a ROR modulator.

The ROR modulators can each be administered in amounts that are sufficient to treat or prevent but are not limited to Autoimmune Inflammatory and Metabolic Diseases or prevent the development thereof in subjects.

The invention also includes pharmaceutical compositions useful for treating or preventing a ROR regulated disease or for inhibiting a ROR regulated disease or more than one of these activities. The compositions can be suitable for internal use and comprise an effective amount of a ROR modulator and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. The ROR modulators are especially useful in that they demonstrate very low systemic toxicity or no systemic toxicity.

Administration of the ROR modulators can be accomplished via any mode of administration for therapeutic agents. These modes include systemic or local administration such as oral nasal parenteral intravenous intramuscular intrathecal intra vitreal transdermal subcutaneous vaginal buccal rectal topical administration modes or as a drug eluting stent.

Depending on the intended mode of administration the compositions can be in solid semi solid or liquid dosage form such as for example injectables tablets suppositories pills time release capsules elixirs tinctures emulsions syrups powders liquids suspensions or the like sometimes in unit dosages and consistent with conventional pharmaceutical practices. Likewise they can also be administered in intravenous both bolus and infusion intraperitoneal intrathecal intra vitreal injection subcutaneous or intramuscular form all using forms well known to those skilled in the pharmaceutical arts.

Illustrative pharmaceutical compositions are tablets and gelatin capsules comprising a ROR modulator and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier such as a a diluent e.g. purified water triglyceride oils such as hydrogenated or partially hydrogenated vegetable oil or mixtures thereof corn oil olive oil sunflower oil safflower oil fish oils such as EPA or DHA or their esters or triglycerides or mixtures thereof omega 3 fatty acids or derivatives thereof lactose dextrose sucrose mannitol sorbitol cellulose sodium saccharin glucose and or glycine b a lubricant e.g. silica talcum stearic acid its magnesium or calcium salt sodium oleate sodium stearate magnesium stearate sodium benzoate sodium acetate sodium chloride and or polyethylene glycol for tablets also c a binder e.g. magnesium aluminum silicate starch paste gelatin tragacanth methylcellulose sodium carboxymethylcellulose magnesium carbonate natural sugars such as glucose or beta lactose corn sweeteners natural and synthetic gums such as acacia tragacanth or sodium alginate waxes and or polyvinylpyrrolidone if desired d a disintegrant e.g. starches agar methyl cellulose bentonite xanthan gum alginic acid or its sodium salt or effervescent mixtures e absorbent colorant flavorant and sweetener f an emulsifier or dispersing agent such as Tween 80 Labrasol HPMC DOSS caproyl 909 labrafac labrafil peceol transcutol capmul MCM capmul PG 12 captex 355 gelucire vitamin E TGPS or other acceptable emulsifier and or g an agent that enhances absorption of the compound such as cyclodextrin hydroxypropyl cyclodextrin PEG400 PEG200.

Liquid particularly injectable compositions can for example be prepared by dissolution dispersion etc. For example in some embodiments the ROR modulator is dissolved in or mixed with a pharmaceutically acceptable solvent such as for example water saline aqueous dextrose glycerol ethanol and the like to thereby form an injectable isotonic solution or suspension. Proteins such as albumin chylomicron particles or serum proteins can be used to solubilize the ROR modulators.

The ROR modulators can be also formulated as a suppository that can be prepared from fatty emulsions or suspensions using polyalkylene glycols such as propylene glycol as the carrier.

In further embodiments the pharmaceutical formulations described herein include but are not limited to aqueous liquid dispersions self emulsifying dispersions solid solutions liposomal dispersions aerosols solid dosage forms powders immediate release formulations controlled release formulations fast melt formulations delayed release formulations extended release formulations pulsatile release formulations multiparticulate formulations and mixed immediate and controlled release formulations.

The ROR modulators can also be administered in the form of liposome delivery systems such as small unilamellar vesicles large unilamellar vesicles and multilamellar vesicles. Liposomes can be formed from a variety of phospholipids containing cholesterol stearylamine or phosphatidylcholines. In some embodiments a film of lipid components is hydrated with an aqueous solution of drug to a form lipid layer encapsulating the drug as described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 262 564 the contents of which are herein incorporated by reference in their entirety.

ROR modulators can also be delivered by the use of monoclonal antibodies as individual carriers to which the ROR modulators are coupled. The ROR modulators can also be coupled with soluble polymers as targetable drug carriers. Such polymers can include polyvinylpyrrolidone pyran copolymer polyhydroxypropylmethacrylamide phenol polyhydroxyethylaspanamidephenol or polyethyleneoxidepolylysine substituted with palmitoyl residues. Furthermore the ROR modulators can be coupled to a class of biodegradable polymers useful in achieving controlled release of a drug for example polylactic acid polyepsilon caprolactone polyhydroxy butyric acid polyorthoesters polyacetals polydihydropyrans polycyanoacrylates and cross linked or amphipathic block copolymers of hydrogels. In one embodiment ROR modulators are not covalently bound to a polymer e.g. a polycarboxylic acid polymer or a polyacrylate.

Parenteral injectable administration may be used for subcutaneous intramuscular or intravenous injections and infusions. Injectables can be prepared in conventional forms either as liquid solutions or suspensions or solid forms suitable for dissolving in liquid prior to injection.

Compositions can be prepared according to conventional mixing granulating or coating methods respectively and the present pharmaceutical compositions can contain from about 0.1 to about 80 from about 5 to about 60 or from about 1 to about 20 of the ROR modulator by weight or volume.

The dosage regimen utilizing the ROR modulator is selected in accordance with a variety of factors including type species age weight sex race diet and medical condition of the patient the severity of the condition to be treated the route of administration the renal or hepatic function of the patient and the particular ROR modulator employed. A physician or veterinarian of ordinary skill in the art can readily determine and prescribe the effective amount of the drug required to prevent counter or arrest the progress of the condition.

Effective dosage amounts of the present invention when used for the indicated effects range from about 0.1 mg to about 5000 mg of the active ingredient per unit dose which could be administered. In one embodiment the compositions are in the form of a tablet that can be scored. Appropriate dosages of the ROR modulators can be determined as set forth in Goodman L. S. Gilman A. The Pharmacological Basis of Therapeutics 5th ed. MacMillan New York 1975 pp. 201 226 the contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

ROR modulators can be administered in a single daily dose or the total daily dosage can be administered in divided doses of two three or four times daily. Furthermore ROR modulators can be administered in intranasal form via topical use of suitable intranasal vehicles or via transdermal routes using those forms of transdermal skin patches well known to those of ordinary skill in that art. To be administered in the form of a transdermal delivery system the dosage administration can be continuous rather than intermittent throughout the dosage regimen. Other illustrative topical preparations include creams ointments lotions aerosol sprays and gels wherein the concentration of the ROR modulator ranges from about 0.1 to about 15 w w or w v.

The ROR modulators can also each be administered in amounts that are sufficient and or effective to treat or prevent ROR associated diseases. These diseases include but are not limited to Autoimmune Inflammatory and Metabolic diseases either individually or in combination with one or more agents and or methods for treating and preventinse ROR regulated diseases.

Compounds according to the present invention may be administered in combination with the following non limiting examples of therapeutic agents and methods for treating and preventing these ROR regulated diseases in any combination that may include but are not limited to any of the following glucocorticoids nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs NSAIDs non limiting examples include acetominophen aspirin capsaicin diclofenac diclofenac misoprostol efenamic acid etodolac felbinac fenoprofen flurbiprofen ketoprofen ibuprofen indomethacin ketorolac loxoprofen meclofenamate meloxicam nabumetone naproxen nimesulide oxaprozin piroxicam sulindac tolmetin cyclooxygenase COX 2 inhibitors non limiting examples include celecoxib valdecoxib etoricoxib lumiracoxib parecoxib licofelone ML3000 disease modifying antirheumatic drugs DMARDs methotrexate chloroquine hydroxychloroquine cyclophosphamide Cytoxan inosine monophosphate dehydrogenase IMPDH inhibitors a non limiting example is mycophenolate mofetil Cellcept Myfortic sirolimus everolimus rapamycin purine nucleoside phosphorylase inhibitors de novo purine synthesis inhibitors non limiting examples include polygentamate derivatives of methotrexate antifolate compounds dihydroorotate dehydrogenase inhibitors malononitrilamides prostaglandins PGE2 inhibitors P2X7 receptor inhibitors proteinase activated receptor 2 PAR 2 inhibitors inhibitors of activated Complement non limiting examples include Eculizumab Pexelizumab complement C3 C5 convertase inhibitors a non limiting example is Nafamostat mesilate active convertase inhibitors complement C5aR antagonists EP4 agonists prostaglandin I2 analogs non limiting examples include iloprost cicaprost treprostinil Sulphasalazine SASP 5 aminosalicylic acid 5 ASA immunomodulator drugs non limiting examples include azathioprine AZA 6 mercaptopurine 6 MP methotrexate MTX calcineurin inhibitors non limiting examples include cyclosporine voclosporine tacrolimus interleukin 10 AG011 placenta derived cells PDA001 mucosal addressin cell adhesion molecule MAdCAM inhibitors PF 00547659 GLP 2 agonists non limiting examples include ZP1848 ALX 0600 anti CD3 CCR9 inhibitors lenalidomide Revlimid recombinant human interleukin 11 CXCR2 Antagonists a non limiting example is SB 656933 glucagon like peptide 2 GLP 2 analogue Teduglutide insulin like growth factor 1 IGF 1 Increlex synthetic guanylhydrazone semapimod CPSI 2364 intracellular adhesion molecule 1 ICAM 1 inhibitor alicaforsen stem cell therapeutics a non limiting example is Prochymal activated protein C aPC vitamin D analogs a non limiting example is calcipotriene retinoids a non limiting example is tazarotene phototherapy non limiting examples include broadband ultraviolet B light narrow band ultraviolet B light psoralen plus ultraviolet A light methotrexate cyclosporine acitretin CCR6 inhibitors CCL20 inhibitors deoxyspergualin alkylate deoxyribonucleic acid DNA agents tumor necrosis factor TNF alpha inhibitors non limiting examples include etanercept infliximab adalimumab certolizumab pegol Cimzia golimumab CNTO 148 inhibitors of TNF alpha converting enzyme Janus kinase JAK 1 2 and or 3 inhibitors non limiting examples include Tofacitinib Xeljanz INCB 28050 Ruxolitinib spleen tyrosine kinase SYK inhibitors a non limiting example is R 788 caspase inhibitor chemokine receptor antagonists protein kinase C pkc inhibitors a non limiting example is Enzastaurin p38 mitogen activated protein kinase MAPK inhibitors caspase inhibitors NF B modulators B cell inhibitors Hydroxychloroquine B lymphocyte stimulator BLyS inhibitors a non limiting example is belimumab Benlysta membrane bound and soluble B cell activating factor inhibitors a non limiting example is LY2127399 inhibitors that antagonize the binding of BLyS and APRIL a proliferation inducing ligand cytokines to B cells in order to prevent B cell maturation and autoantibody production a non limiting example is Atacicept anti CD 19 CD20 inhibitors non limiting examples include Rituximab Ocrelizumab Ofatumumab CD22 inhibitors a non limiting example is Epratuzumab T cell inhibitors non limiting examples include Alefacept Amevive IPP 201101 interferon inhibitors non limiting examples include MEDI 545 rontalizumab fontalizumab toll like receptor inhibitors prasterone estrogen receptor antagonist fulvestrant cytotoxic T lymphocyte associated antigen 4 CTLA 4 Ig a non limiting example is Abatacept Orencia v set domain containing T cell activation inhibitor 1 VTCN1 B7 H4 agonists AMP 110 interleukin 1 receptor antagonists AMG 108 Anakinra Kineret interleukin 1 beta antagonists non limiting examples include canakinumab Xoma 052 soluble IL 1 receptors a non limiting example is rilonacept interleukin 2R antagonists non limiting examples include basiliximab Simulect daclizumab Zenapax interleukin 6 receptor antagonists non limiting examples include Tocilizumab Actemra calcipotriene betamethasone Taclonex fumarate Panaclar BG 12 interleukin 15 inhibitors interleukin 17 and interleukin 17 receptor inhibitors non limiting examples include Secukinumab Brodalumab Ixekizumab RG7624 DHODH inhibitors a non limiting example is Vidofludimus interleukin 18 inhibitors T helper Th 17 cell inhibitors interleukin 12 interleukin 23 inhibitors non limiting examples include Ustekinumab CNTO 1275 briakinumab ABT 874 interleukin 22 inhibitors interleukin 23 inhibitors a non limiting example is ustekinumab interleukin 12 inhibitors a non limiting example is ustekinumab alpha interferons beta interferons Interferon beta 1a Avonex Rebif Interferon beta 1b Betaseron Betaferon Glatiramer acetate Copaxone selective adhesion molecule inhibitors integrin antagonists Natalizumab Tysabri vedolizumab sphingosine 1 phosphate receptor S1P R agonists a non limiting example is Fingolimod FTY720 fumarate derivative immunomodulators a non limiting example is BG 12 laquinimod anti LFA 1 a non limiting example is Efalizumab Raptiva MBP 8298 cladribin a non limiting example is Mylinax Novantrone isoxanol dihydroorotate dehydrogenase DHODH and tyrosine kinase inhibitor a non limiting example is teriflunomide HMR 1726 Revimmune cyclophosphamide Fampridine SR 4 aminopyridine Panaclar dimethylfumarate MBP8298 dirucotide synthetic peptide version of a portion of human myelin basic protein Campath alemtuzumab anti CD52 Cladribine purine analogs Fingolimod sphingosine 1 phosphate receptor agonists Laquinimod Teriflunomide de novo pyrimidine synthesis inhibitors non limiting examples include brequinar leflunomide Arava active metabolites of leflunomide photodynamic therapy PDT with verteporfin Anti angiogenic factors non limiting examples include vascular endothelial growth factor A VEGFA inhibitors non limiting examples include pegaptanib sodium ranibizumab bevacizumab CCR3 inhibitors anti CD48 beta 2 agonists leukotriene modifiers phosphodiesterase PDE inhibitors non limiting examples include tetomilast ibudilast selective phosphodiesterase 4 PDE 4 inhibitors non limiting examples include rolipram roflumilast piclamilast pentoxifylline inhibitors targeting IgE Omalizumab Th2 cytokine inhibitors non limiting examples include suplatast tosilate sIL 4R IL 5 inhibitors Macrolides Ketolide adenosine A2B antagonists kappa B kinase 2 inhibitors prostanoid and F2 isoprostane antagonists Nitric oxide donors inducible nitric oxide synthase inhibitors toll like receptor modulators Lorcaserin phentermine topiramate bupropion naltrexone Anti CD3 Antithymocyte globulin serine protease inhibitors a non limiting example is alpha 1 antitrypsin AAT tyrosine kinase inhibitors platelet derived growth factor receptor PDGFR inhibitors insulin Antigen Specific Tolerance inducting agents to Type 1 Diabetes non limiting examples include Glutamate Decarboxylase 65 and Heat Shock Protein treatments cannabinoid receptor 1 CB1 antagonists long acting glucagon like peptide 1 GLP1 analogues dipeptidyl peptidase 4 DPP4 inhibitors vasoactive intestinal peptide pituitary adenylate cyclase activating polypeptide receptor 2 VPAC2 agonists Glucokinase activators Glucagon receptor antagonists Cytosolic phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase PEPCK inhibitors sodium glucose co transporter 2 SGLT2 inhibitors salsalate I B kinase IKK inhibitors nuclear factor kappa B inhibitors interleukin 1 IL 1 receptor antagonists IL 1 beta specific antibody sirtuin 1 SIRT1 activators selective peroxisome proliferator activated receptor PPAR modulators SPPARMs 11 hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 1 11 HSD1 inhibitors PPAR ligands non limiting examples include rosiglitazone pioglitazone troglitazone thiazolidinediones glitazones Warfarin coumadin pradaxa non limiting examples include dabigatran etexilate mesylate anti thrombotics Statins hydroxy methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase HMG CoA reductase inhibitors ezetimibe fenofibrates niacin amlodipine Vascular cell adhesion molecule VCAM antagonists Thromboxane A2 antagonists prostaglandin D2 receptor 1 antagonists G protein coupled receptor GPCR modulators cannabinoid receptor 1 also known as CNR1 CB1 receptor antagonists Rimonabant cholesteryl ester transfer protein CETP inhibitors JTT 705 chemokine C C motif receptor 2 CCR2 antagonists Phospholipase A2 inhibitors peroxisome proliferator activated receptor PPAR agonists leucovorin folinic acid 5 FU oxaliplatin irinotecan capecitabine oxaliplatin bevacizumab cetuximab Panitumumab and combinations thereof among others.

Examples of synthetic pathways useful for making ROR modulators of the present invention are set forth in the Examples below and generalized in herein.

A process for the preparation of the compounds of this invention is shown in scheme 1. The compounds I IV are readily available. These compounds may be alkylated with benzyl groups for example benzyl halides such as a benzyl bromide. The benzyl derivatives are either known compounds or can be readily synthesized using variations of standard techniques in organic chemistry. Where appropriate protecting groups may be employed. In the case of benzyl bromides treatment of the compound of structure I IV with a base such as KCOor NaH in a suitable solvent for example THR followed by the appropriate benzyl derivative leads to the alkylated derivatives V VIII. Reduction of the nitro group to the corresponding amine can be carried out by a number of well established methods for example catalytic hydrogenation over a palladium or platinum catalyst or reduction by treatment with a reducing metal under typically acidic conditions. SnCland iron powder are two such metals. Acylation of the resulting amides can be carried out by treatment with the appropriate acyl halide acid anhydride active ester or acid activated in the presence of a coupling reagent such as a chloroformate or a diimide reagent to give compounds of formula XIII XVI. The procedures for carrying out this step are well established. Depending on functionality present in either R Ror the acylating species protecting groups may be employed. Similarly if a sulfonamide is the desired product a sulfonyl containing acylating reagent such as methane sulfonyl chloride can be employed.

The disclosure is further illustrated by the following examples which are not to be construed as limiting this disclosure in scope or spirit to the specific procedures herein described. It is to be understood that the examples are provided to illustrate certain embodiments and that no limitation to the scope of the disclosure is intended thereby. It is to be further understood that resort may be had to various other embodiments modifications and equivalents thereof which may suggest themselves to those skilled in the art without departing from the spirit of the present disclosure and or scope of the appended claims.

The following non limiting compound examples serve to illustrate further embodiments of the ROR modulators. It is to be understood that any embodiments listed in the Examples section are embodiments of the ROR modulators and as such are suitable for use in the methods and compositions described above.

The present invention is not to be limited in scope by the specific embodiments disclosed in the examples which are intended as illustrations of a few aspects of the invention and any embodiments that are functionally equivalent are within the scope of this invention. Indeed various modifications of the invention in addition to those shown and described herein will become apparent to those skilled in the art and are intended to fall within the scope of the appended claims.

To a stirred solution of 2 4 methylphenyl 1 1 1 3 3 3 trifluoropropan 2 ol 1 100.0 g 380 mmol in CCl 750 mL was added NBS 68.6 g 380 mmol in portions and AIBN 0.63 g 0.01 eq. at RT. The resulting reaction mixture was heated to 80 C. and stirred for 2 h. The progress of the reaction was monitored by TLC TLC system 10 EtOAc Pet ether Rvalue 0.35 .

After completion of the reaction the reaction mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure to afford the crude product. The crude product was diluted with water and extracted with dicloromethane 2 500 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with water then brine dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and the solvent was removed under reduced pressure to afford crude 2 4 bromomethyl phenyl 1 1 1 3 3 3 hexafluoropropan 2 ol. The crude product was purified over silica gel 100 200 mesh column chromatography eluting with pet ether to give 2 4 bromomethyl phenyl 1 1 1 3 3 3 hexafluoropropan 2 ol 2 as a mixture of mono and di bromo derivatives. 1HNMR 400 MHz CDCl3 7.75 7.64 m 2H 7.48 d 2H J 8.4 Hz 4.5 s 2H 4.14 4.09 m 1H .

Conc. HSO 1000 mL was added to water 250 mL at 0 C. with stirring then 3 4 dihydroquinolin 2 1H one 3 50.0 g 350 mmol was added portionwise. After that HNO 68 25 mL was added dropwise over a period of 10 min at 0 C. and the reaction mixture was stirred for 10 min. The progress of the reaction was monitored by TLC TLC system 10 MeOH dichloromethane Rvalue 0.5 

After completion of the reaction the reaction mixture was poured into ice cold water and filtered washing with ethyl acetate. The crude product was dried under vacuum to afford 6 nitro 3 4 dihydroquinolin 2 1H one 4 as a pale yellow solid.

To a stirred solution of 6 nitro 3 4 dihydroquinolin 2 1H one 4 50.0 g 260 mmol in THF 750 mL was added BH DMS 2.0 M 260 mL 520 mmol dropwise over a period of 10 min at 0 C. The resulting reaction mixture was heated to 80 C. and stirred for 2 h. The progress of the reaction was monitored by TLC TLC system 50 EtOAc Pet ether Rvalue 0.65 

After completion of the reaction the reaction mixture was cooled to 0 C. and quenched by dropwise addition of methanol 300 mL and concentrated. The crude reaction mass was diluted with water and extracted with ethyl acetate 2 400 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with brine dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and the solvent was removed under reduced pressure to give 6 nitro 1 2 3 4 tetrahydroquinoline 5 as a yellow liquid.

To a stirred solution of 6 nitro 1 2 3 4 tetrahydroquinoline 5 45.0 g 250 mmol in THF 800 mL was added NaH 50 21.6 g 450 mmol in portions over a period of 10 min at 0 C. and the mixture was stirred for 30 min. 2 4 bromomethyl phenyl 1 1 1 3 3 3 hexafluoropropan 2 ol 2 85.0 g 250 mmol in THF 200 mL was added dropwise and the mixture was heated to 80 C. for 16 h. The progress of the reaction was monitored by TLC TLC system 40 EtOAc Pet ether 2 times Rvalue 0.6 .

After completion of the reaction the reaction mixture was cooled to 0 C. quenched with ice cold water and extracted with ethyl acetate 2 500 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with brine dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and the solvent was removed under reduced pressure. The crude product was purified over silica gel 100 200 mesh column chromatography eluting with 10 EtOAc Pet ether to give 1 1 1 3 3 3 hexafluoro 2 4 6 nitro 3 4 dihydroquinolin 1 2H yl methyl phenyl propan 2 ol 6 as a light yellow liquid.

To a stirred solution of 1 1 1 3 3 3 hexafluoro 2 4 6 nitro 3 4 dihydroquinolin 1 2H yl methyl phenyl propan 2 ol 6 58.0 g 133 mmol in ethanol 600 mL was added SnCl 90.0 g 400 mmol in concentrated HCl 600 mL dropwise over a period of 10 min at 0 C. The resulting reaction mixture was heated to reflux for 2 h to give a clear solution. The progress of the reaction was monitored by TLC TLC system 50 EtOAc Pet ether Rvalue 0.4 

After completion of the reaction the reaction mixture was cooled to RT and saturated NaHCOsolution was added to adjust the pH to 10. The resulting mixture was filtered and the filtrate was extracted with ethyl acetate 2 1000 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with brine dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and the solvent was removed under reduced pressure to afford crude product. The crude product was purified over silica gel 100 200 mesh column chromatography eluting with 30 EtOAc Pet ether to give 2 4 6 amino 3 4 dihydroquinolin 1 2H yl methyl phenyl 1 1 1 3 3 3 hexafluoropropan 2 ol 7 as an ash colored solid.

To a stirred solution of 2 4 6 amino 3 4 dihydroquinolin 1 2H yl methyl phenyl 1 1 1 3 3 3 hexafluoropropan 2 ol 7 2.0 g 4.0 mmol in dichloromethane 30 mL was added EtN 1.0 mL 7.0 mmol at 0 C. and the mixture was stirred for 10 min. AcO 0.6 mL 5.0 mmol was added and stirring was continued for 30 min. The progress of the reaction was monitored by TLC TLC system 50 EtOAc Pet ether KMnOactive Rvalue 0.2 

After completion of the reaction the reaction mixture was diluted with ice cold water and extracted with dichloromethane 2 50 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with water brine dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and the solvent was removed under reduced pressure to afford crude product. The crude product was purified over silica gel 100 200 mesh column chromatography eluting with 20 EtOAc Pet ether to give N 1 4 1 1 1 3 3 3 hexafluoro 2 hydroxypropan 2 yl benzyl 1 2 3 4 tetrahydroquinolin 6 yl acetamide 8 as a pale yellow liquid. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 9.45 s 1H 8.62 s 1H 7.62 d 2H J 8.0 Hz 7.37 d 2H J 8.0 Hz 7.14 s 1H 7.04 d 1H J 8.4 Hz 6.36 d 1H J 8.8 Hz 4.49 s 2H 3.31 s 2H 2.70 s 2H 1.93 s 5H . LC MS 99.6 at 215 nm and 96.36 at 254 nm m z 447.1 M H .

To a stirred solution of conc. HSO 78 mL was added water 36 mL at 0 C. 3 4 dihydroquinolin 2 1H one 3 6.0 g 41.9 mmol was added in portions this was followed by dropwise addition of 68 HNO 12 mL over a period of 10 min at 0 C. and the mixture was stirred for 15 min. The progress of the reaction was monitored by TLC TLC system 10 MeOH dichloromethane Rvalue 0.4 

After completion of the reaction the reaction mixture was poured into ice cold water and filtered washed with ethyl acetate. The crude product was dried over vacuum to give 6 nitro 3 4 dihydroquinolin 2 1H one 4 as a pale yellow solid. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 8.73 s 1H 8.2 8.05 m 2H 6.89 t 1H J 4.4 Hz 3.09 t 2H J 8.0 Hz 2.72 t 2H J 8.0 Hz .

To a stirred solution of 6 nitro 3 4 dihydroquinolin 2 1H one 4 10.0 g 53 mmol in THF 160 mL was added 60 NaH 4.24 g 106 mmol in portions over a period of 10 min at 0 C. and the mixture was stirred. After 30 min 2 4 bromomethyl phenyl 1 1 1 3 3 3 hexafluoropropan 2 ol 2 22.2 g 66.0 mmol in THF 40 mL was added dropwise and the reaction mixture was heated to 70 C. overnight. The progress of the reaction was monitored by TLC TLC system 30 EtOAc Pet ether Rvalue 0.65 

After completion of the reaction the reaction mixture was cooled to 0 C. quenched with ice cold water and extracted with ethyl acetate 2 250 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with brine dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure. The crude product was purified over silica gel 100 200 mesh column chromatography eluting with 10 EtOAc Pet ether to afford 1 4 1 1 1 3 3 3 hexafluoro 2 hydroxypropan 2 yl benzyl 6 nitro 3 4 dihydroquinolin 2 1H one 9 as a while solid.

To a stirred solution of 1 4 1 1 1 3 3 3 hexafluoro 2 hydroxypropan 2 yl benzyl 6 nitro 3 4 dihydroquinolin 2 1H one 9 2.0 g 4.5 mmol in ethanol 30 mL and conc. HCl 10 mL was added SnCl.HO 2.56 g 13.5 mmol at RT. The resulting reaction mixture was heated to 90 C. and stirred for 2 h. The progress of the reaction was monitored by TLC TLC system 5 MeOH dichloromethane Rvalue 0.1 

After completion of the reaction the reaction mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure to afford the crude product. The crude product was basified with 2N NaOH solution and extracted with ethyl acetate 2 150 mL . The organic layer was dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and the solvent was removed under reduced pressure. The crude product was washed twice with MTBE to afford 6 amino 1 4 1 1 1 3 3 3 hexafluoro 2 hydroxypropan 2 yl benzyl 3 4 dihydroquinolin 2 1H one 10 as a white solid. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.7 7.58 m 2H 7.34 7.20 m 2H 6.62 d 1H J 8.4 Hz 6.53 d 1H J 2.4 Hz 6.44 dd 1H J 8.8 J 2.8 Hz 5.12 s 2H 4.08 s 1H 3.53 br s 2H 2.87 dd 2H J 6.4 J 14 Hz .

To a stirred solution of 6 amino 1 4 1 1 1 3 3 3 hexafluoro 2 hydroxypropan 2 yl benzyl 3 4 dihydroquinolin 2 1H one 10 2.5 g 6.1 mmol in dichloromethane 25 mL was added EtN 2.5 mL 18 mmol at 0 C. and the reaction mixture was stirred for 10 min. AcO 0.73 mL 7.8 mmol was added at same temperature and the reaction mixture was allowed warm to RT and stir for 1 h. The progress of the reaction was monitored by TLC TLC system 5 MeOH dichloromethane Rvalue 0.3 

After completion of the reaction the reaction mixture was diluted with ice cold water and extracted with dichloromethane 2 50 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with water and brine dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and the solvent was removed under reduced pressure to afford crude product. The crude product was washed with MTBE followed by dichloromethane to afford the title product N 1 4 1 1 1 3 3 3 hexafluoro 2 hydroxypropan 2 yl benzyl 2 oxo 1 2 3 4 tetrahydroquinolin 6 yl acetamide 11 as an off white solid. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 9.82 s 1H 8.63 s 1H 7.60 d 2H J 8.4 Hz 7.47 d 1H J 2.0 Hz 7.34 d 2H J 8.0 Hz 7.25 dd 1H J 8.8 J 2.4 Hz 6.84 d 1H J 8.8 Hz 5.15 s 2H 2.92 t 2H J 6.8 Hz 2.67 t 2H J 6.8 Hz 1.98 s 3H . LC MS 95.03 at 215 nm and 94.97 at 254 nm m z 461.1 M H .

To a stirred solution of 5 nitroindoline 12 6.0 g 36 mmol in THF 80 mL was added NaH 60 1.8 g 45 mmol by in portions over a period of 10 min at 0 C. and the resulting mixture was stirred for 30 min. Next 2 4 bromomethyl phenyl 1 1 1 3 3 3 hexafluoropropan 2 ol 2 12.3 g 36 mmol in THF 20 mL was added dropwise and the reaction mixture was heated to reflux for 20 h. The progress of the reaction was monitored by TLC TLC system 30 EtOAc Pet ether 2 times Rvalue 0.5 .

After completion of the reaction the reaction mixture was cooled to 0 C. quenched with ice cold water and extracted with ethyl acetate 2 500 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with brine dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and the solvent was removed under reduced pressure. The crude product was purified over silica gel 100 200 mesh column chromatography eluting with 20 EtOAc Pet ether to afford 1 1 1 3 3 3 hexafluoro 2 4 5 nitroindolin 1 yl methyl phenyl propan 2 ol 13 as a light yellow solid together with recovered 5 nitroindoline. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.05 dd 1H J 8.8 J 2.4 Hz 7.93 s 1H 7.71 d 2H J 8.4 Hz 7.36 d 1H J 8.4 Hz 6.35 d 2H J 8.8 Hz 4.47 s 2H 3.65 t 2H J 8.8 Hz 3.46 s 1H 3.12 t 2H J 8.8 Hz .

To a stirred solution of 1 1 1 3 3 3 hexafluoro 2 4 5 nitroindolin 1 yl methyl phenyl propan 2 ol 13 1.8 g 4.0 mmol in acetic acid 7.2 mL and ethanol 10.8 mL was added Iron powder 2.18 g 42 mmol at RT. The resulting reaction mixture was heated to 70 C. and stirred for 2 h. The progress of the reaction was monitored by TLC TLC system 30 EtOAc Pet ether Rvalue 0.3 .

After completion of the reaction the reaction mixture was filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The crude product was diluted with ethyl acetate and washed with saturated NaHCOsolution. The organic layer was dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and the solvent was removed under reduced pressure to give 2 4 5 aminoindolin 1 yl methyl phenyl 1 1 1 3 3 3 hexafluoropropan 2 ol 14 as a pale yellow liquid. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 8.65 s 1H 7.64 d 2H J 8.0 Hz 7.49 d 2H J 8.4 Hz 6.43 s 1H 6.40 6.18 m 2H 4.36 s 2H 4.12 s 2H 3.05 t 2H J 7.6 Hz 2.74 t 2H J 7.2 Hz .

To a stirred solution of 2 4 5 aminoindolin 1 yl methyl phenyl 1 1 1 3 3 3 hexafluoropropan 2 ol 14 1.5 g 3.0 mmol in dichloromethane 30 mL was added EtN 0.8 mL 5.0 mmol at 0 C. and the mixture was stirred for 10 min. AcO 0.5 mL 4.0 mmol was added and stirring was continued for 10 min. The progress of the reaction was monitored by TLC TLC system 50 EtOAc Pet ether Rvalue 0.2 

After completion of the reaction the reaction mixture was diluted with ice cold water and extracted with dichloromethane 2 50 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with water and brine and dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate. The solvent was removed under reduced pressure. Washing with dichloromethane 2 10 mL gave N 1 4 1 1 1 3 3 3 hexafluoro 2 hydroxypropan 2 yl benzyl indolin 5 yl acetamide 15 as a pale yellow liquid. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 9.56 s 1H 8.66 s 1H 7.65 d 2H J 7.6 Hz 7.49 d 2H J 8.4 Hz 7.32 s 1H 7.11 dd 1H J 8.4 J 2.0 Hz 6.49 d 1H J 8.4 Hz 4.26 s 2H 3.22 t 2H J 8.4 Hz 2.87 t 2H J 8.0 Hz 1.96 s 3H . LC MS 98.01 at 215 nm and 96.44 at 254 nm m z 433.1 M H .

To a stirred solution of 2 4 6 amino 3 4 dihydroquinolin 1 2H yl methyl phenyl 1 1 1 3 3 3 hexafluoropropan 2 ol 7 0.6 g 1.4 mmol in dicloromethane 25 mL was added EtN 0.25 mL 1.7 mmol at 0 C. and the mixture was stirred for 10 min. Methane sulfonyl chloride 1 M in dicloromethane 1.4 mL 1.4 mmol was added dropwise and the reaction mixture was stirred for 15 min at the same temperature. The progress of the reaction was monitored by TLC TLC system 30 EtOAc Pet ether Rvalue 0.5 

After completion of the reaction the reaction mixture was diluted with ice cold water and extracted with dicloromethane 2 30 mL . The combined organic layers were dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and the solvent was removed under reduced pressure to give crude product. The crude product was purified by preparative TLC 3 times purification done and to afford N 1 4 1 1 1 3 3 3 hexafluoro 2 hydroxypropan 2 yl benzyl 1 2 3 4 tetrahydroquinolin 6 yl methanesulfonamide 16 as an off white solid. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 8.94 s 1H 8.63 s 1H 7.63 d 2H J 8.4 Hz 7.38 d 2H J 8.8 Hz 6.80 6.75 m 2H 6.40 d 1H J 8.8 Hz 4.5 d 2H J 8.4 Hz 3.35 t 2H J 6 Hz 2.80 d 3H J 6.4 Hz 2.72 t 2H J 6 Hz 1.92 t 2H J 5.6 Hz . LC MS 97.04 at 215 nm and 97.02 at 254 nm m z 483.1 M H .

To a stirred solution of 6 amino 1 4 1 1 1 3 3 3 hexafluoro 2 hydroxypropan 2 yl benzyl 3 4 dihydroquinolin 2 1H one 10 0.55 g 1.3 mmol in dichloromethane 27.5 mL was added EtN 0.45 mL 3.3 mmol followed by methane sulfonyl chloride 1 M in dichloromethane 1.13 mL 1.3 mmol at 0 C. The resulting reaction mixture was allowed to warm to RT and was stirred for 1 h. The progress of the reaction was monitored by TLC TLC system 5 EtOAc pet ether Rvalue 0.2 

After completion of the reaction the reaction mixture was diluted with ice cold water and extracted with dichloromethane 2 25 mL . The combined organic layers were dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure to afford the crude product. The crude product was purified by preparative HPLC to give N 1 4 1 1 1 3 3 3 hexafluoro 2 hydroxypropan 2 yl benzyl 2 oxo 1 2 3 4 tetrahydroquinolin 6 yl methanesulfonamide 17 as an off white gummy solid. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 9.53 s 1H 8.64 s 1H 7.61 d 2H J 8.0 Hz 7.35 d 2H J 8.4 Hz 7.08 d 1H J 2.4 Hz 6.96 dd 1H J 8.8 J 2.4 Hz 6.88 d 1H J 8.8 Hz 5.15 s 2H 3.0 2.85 m 5H 2.68 t 2H J 8.0 Hz . LC MS 96.01 at 215 nm and 98.65 at 254 nm. m z 495.2 M H .

To a stirred solution of 5 nitroindoline 12 0.2 g 1.2 mmol and 1 bromomethyl 4 trifluoromethyl benzene 18 0.32 g 1.34 mmol in THF 2 mL was added 60 NaH 0.097 g 2.4 mmol in portions at 0 C. The resulting reaction mixture was heated to reflux for 2 h. The progress of the reaction was monitored by TLC TLC system 20 EtOAc Pet ether Rvalue 0.35 

After completion of the reaction the reaction mixture was quenched with ice cold water and extracted with ethyl acetate 2 50 mL . The combined organic layers were dried over sodium sulfate and evaporated under reduced pressure to give crude 5 nitro 1 4 trifluoromethyl benzyl indoline 19 as a yellow solid.

Fe powder 0.518 g 9.3 mmol was added portion wise to a stirred solution of 5 nitro 1 4 trifluoromethyl benzyl indoline 19 0.3 g 0.93 mmol in acetic acid 1.5 mL EtOH 15 mL at 0 C. The resulting mixture was heated to reflux for 1 h. The progress of the reaction was monitored by TLC TLC system 30 EtOAc Pet ether Rvalue 0.1 

After completion of the reaction the reaction mixture was filtered through a Celite bed and the solvent was evaporated under reduced pressure to give crude 1 4 trifluoromethyl benzyl indolin 5 amine 20 as a gummy liquid.

To a stirred solution of 1 4 trifluoromethyl benzyl indolin 5 amine 20 0.25 g 0.85 mmol in dichloromethane 7.5 mL was added AcO 1.25 mL at RT. The resulting reaction mixture was heated to reflux and stirred for 30 min. The progress of the reaction was monitored by TLC TLC system 60 EtOAc Pet ether Rvalue 0.5 

After completion of the reaction the reaction mixture was cooled to RT basified with NaHCOsolution and extracted with dichloromethane 2 50 mL . The combined organic layers were dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and the solvent was removed under reduced pressure. The crude product was purified over silica gel 100 200 mesh column chromatography eluting with 20 EtOAc Pet ether to afford N 1 4 trifluoromethyl benzyl indolin 5 yl acetamide 21 as an off white solid.

NaBH 0.92 g 24.3 mmol was added in portions to a stirred solution of 4 isopropylphenyl methanol 23 3.0 g 2.23 mmol in methanol 30 mL at 0 C. and the mixture was allowed to warm to RT and was stirred for 2 h. The progress of the reaction was monitored by TLC TLC system 30 EtOAc Pet ether Rvalue 0.2 

After completion of the reaction the reaction mixture was evaporated under reduced pressure. The crude product was diluted with ethyl acetate 100 mL and washed with water. The organic layer was dried over sodium sulfate and evaporated under reduced pressure to give crude 4 isopropylphenyl methanol 23 as a liquid that was used directly in the next step.

PBr 2.81 mL 30 mmol was added dropwise to a stirred solution of 4 isopropylphenyl methanol 23 3.0 g 20 mmol in dichloromethane 30 mL at 0 C. the reaction mixture was allowed to warm to RT and was stirred for 2 h. The progress of the reaction was monitored by TLC TLC system 20 EtOAc Pet ether Rvalue 0.7 

After completion of the reaction the reaction mixture was quenched with ice cold water basified with saturated sodium bicarbonate solution and extracted with dichloromethane 2 100 mL . The combined organic layers were dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and evaporated under reduced pressure to afford crude 1 bromomethyl 4 isopropylbenzene 24 as a light yellow liquid.

To a stirred solution of 5 nitroindoline 12 0.1 g 0.61 mmol and 1 bromomethyl 4 isopropylbenzene 24 0.142 g 0.67 mmol in THF 2 mL was added 60 NaH 0.048 g 1.2 mmol portion wise at 0 C. The resulting reaction mixture was heated to reflux for 2 h. The progress of the reaction was monitored by TLC TLC system 20 EtOAc Pet ether Rvalue 0.65 

After completion of the reaction the reaction mixture was quenched with ice cold water and extracted with ethyl acetate 2 50 mL . The combined organic layers were dried over sodium sulfate and evaporated under reduced pressure to afford 1 4 isopropylbenzyl 5 nitroindoline 25 as a liquid.

Fe powder 0.188 g 3.3 mmol was added in portions to a stirred solution of 1 4 isopropylbenzyl 5 nitroindoline 25 0.150 g 0.33 mmol in acetic acid 0.75 mL and ethanol 7.5 mL at 0 C. The resulting mixture was heated to reflux for 1 h. The progress of the reaction was monitored by TLC TLC system 20 EtOAc Pet ether Rvalue 0.01 

After completion of the reaction the reaction mixture was filtered through a celite bed and the solvent was evaporated under reduced pressure to afford crude 1 4 isopropylbenzyl indolin 5 amine 26 as a gummy liquid suitable for use in the next step.

To a stirred solution of 1 4 isopropylbenzyl indolin 5 amine 26 0.100 g 0.38 mmol in dichloromethane 3 mL was added acetic anhydride 0.5 mL at RT. The resulting reaction mixture was heated to reflux and stir for 30 min. The progress of the reaction was monitored by TLC TLC system 60 EtOAc Pet ether Rvalue 0.5 

After completion of the reaction the reaction mixture was cooled to RT basified with NaHCOsolution and extracted with dichloromethane 2 40 mL . The combined organic layers were dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and the solvent was removed under reduced pressure. The crude product was purified over silica gel 100 200 mesh column chromatography by eluting with 20 EtOAc Pet ether to afford N 1 4 isopropylbenzyl indolin 5 yl acetamide 27 as an off white solid.

60 NaH 2.92 g 4.0 eq. was added portion wise to a solution of 5 nitroindoline 12 3.0 g 18.2 mmol and methyl 4 bromomethyl benzoate 28 5.0 g 21.9 mmol in THF 60 mL at 0 C. and the mixture was stirred for 10 min. The resulting reaction mixture was heated to reflux for 2 h. The progress of the reaction was monitored by TLC TLC system 30 EtOAc Pet ether Rvalue 0.4 

After completion of the reaction the reaction mixture was quenched with ice and extracted with ethyl acetate 2 150 mL . The combined organic layers were dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and the solvent was removed under reduced pressure to afford crude methyl 4 5 nitroindolin 1 yl methyl benzoate 29 as a pale yellow solid.

To a stirred solution of methyl 4 5 nitroindolin 1 yl methyl benzoate 29 2.0 g 6.4 mmol in THF 30 mL was added a solution of LAH 0.267 g 7.0 mmol in THF 10 mL drop wise at 0 C. and the mixture was stirred for 1 h. The progress of the reaction was monitored by TLC TLC system 50 EtOAc Pet ether Rvalue 0.35 

After completion of the reaction the reaction mixture was quenched with ice cold water and 15 NaOH solution. The reaction mixture was filtered through a Celite bed washing with ethyl acetate. The filtrate was dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and the solvent was removed under reduced pressure to afford crude 4 5 nitroindolin 1 yl methyl phenyl methanol 30 as an off while solid.

To a stirred solution of 4 5 nitroindolin 1 yl methyl phenyl methanol 30 1.0 g 3.5 mmol in dichloromethane 20 mL was added MnO 1.83 g 21.0 mmol was added in portions at 0 C. over 10 min. The resulting reaction mixture was allowed to warm to RT and stir for overnight. The progress of the reaction was monitored by TLC TLC system 50 EtOAc Pet ether Rvalue 0.5 

After 70 completion of reaction the reaction mixture was filtered through a Celite bed and the filtrate was concentrated under reduced pressure to afford crude 4 5 nitroindolin 1 yl methyl benzaldehyde 31 as a pale yellow liquid.

4 5 Nitroindolin 1 yl methyl benzaldehyde 31 0.7 g 2.48 mmol was dissolved in ethanol 14 mL was added dropwise to a stirred solution of acetone 0.54 mL 7.45 mmol and NaOH 0.99 g 24.8 mmol at 0 C. The resulting reaction mixture was allowed to warm to RT and stir overnight. The progress of the reaction was monitored by TLC TLC system 50 EtOAc Pet ether Rvalue 0.45 

After completion of the reaction the reaction mixture was diluted with ethyl acetate and washed with water. The organic layer was dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and the solvent was removed under reduced pressure to afford crude E 4 4 5 nitroindolin 1 yl methyl phenyl but 3 en 2 one 32 as a yellow liquid.

To a stirred solution of E 4 4 5 nitroindolin 1 yl methyl phenyl but 3 en 2 one 32 0.5 g 1.55 mmol in NaOH 0.093 g 2.3 mmol and water 10 mL was added tetrabutylammonium bromide 0.75 g 2.3 mmol and tosyl hydrazine 0.347 g 1.86 mmol at RT. The resulting reaction mixture was heated to reflux for 12 h. The progress of the reaction was monitored by TLC TLC system 50 EtOAc Pet ether Rvalue 0.3 

After completion of the reaction the reaction mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate 2 50 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with water and dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate. The solvent was removed under reduced pressure to afford crude 1 4 3 methyl 1H pyrazol 5 yl benzyl 5 nitroindoline 33 as a yellow solid. LC MS 60.68 at 254 nm m z 333.1 M H .

To a stirred solution of 1 4 3 methyl 1H pyrazol 5 yl benzyl 5 nitroindoline 33 0.400 g 1.19 mmol in ethanol 30 mL was added SnCl.HO 2.16 g 9.6 mmol at RT. The resulting reaction mixture was heated to reflux for overnight. The progress of the reaction was monitored by TLC TLC system 70 EtOAc Pet ether Rvalue 0.15 

After completion of the reaction the reaction mixture was cooled to RT basified with 10 NaOH solution and extracted with ethyl acetate 3 50 mL . The combined organic layers were dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and the solvent was removed under reduced pressure to afford crude 1 4 3 methyl 1H pyrazol 5 yl benzyl indolin 5 amine 34 as a gummy liquid.

To a stirred solution of 1 4 3 methyl 1H pyrazol 5 yl benzyl indolin 5 amine 34 0.3 g 0.99 mmol in dichloromethane 6 mL was added EtN 0.2 mL 1.48 mmol at 0 C. Acetic anhydride 0.093 mL 0.99 mmol was added dropwise at 0 C. and the mixture was stirred for 2 h. The progress of the reaction was monitored by TLC TLC system 90 EtOAc Pet ether Rvalue 0.2 

After completion of the reaction the reaction mixture was extracted with dichloromethane 2 50 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with water and dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate. The solvent was removed under reduced pressure. The crude product was purified by preparative HPLC to afford N 1 4 3 methyl 1H pyrazol 5 yl benzyl indolin 5 yl acetamide 35 as an off white solid.

To a stirred solution of 4 bromotoluene 36 5.0 g 29 mmol in THF 70 mL was added 2.5 M n BuLi 17 mL 35 mmol dropwise at 75 C. and the reaction mixture was stirred for 30 min. Cyclobutanone 2.6 mL 35 mmol was added at the same temperature and the reaction mixture was stirred for 1 h. The progress of the reaction was monitored by TLC TLC system 10 EtOAc Pet ether Rvalue 0.25 

After completion of the reaction the reaction mixture was quenched with saturated ammonium chloride solution at 70 C. and diluted with water. The aqueous solution was extracted with ethyl acetate 2 150 mL . The combined organic layers were dried over anhydrous sodium sulphate and evaporated under reduced pressure. The crude product was purified over silica gel 100 200 mesh column chromatography eluting with 5 EtOAc Pet ether to give 1 p tolyl cyclobutanol 38 as a colorless liquid.

To stirred solution of 1 p tolyl cyclobutanol 38 3.0 g 18 mmol in CCl 50 mL was added NBS 3.2 g 18 mmol and AIBN 0.03 g 0.18 mmol at RT. The resulting reaction mixture was heated to reflux overnight. The progress of the reaction was monitored by TLC TLC system 10 EtOAc Pet ether Rvalue 0.2 

After completion of the reaction the reaction mixture was cooled poured into ice cold water and extracted with dichloromethane 2 200 mL . The combined organic layers were dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and the solvent was evaporated under reduced pressure. The crude product was purified over silica gel 100 200 mesh column chromatography eluting with 7 EtOAc Pet ether to give 1 4 bromomethyl phenyl cyclobutanol 39 as a colorless liquid.

To a stirred solution of 5 nitroindoline 12 2.4 g 14.6 mmol in THF 70 mL was added 50 NaH 2.3 g 51 mmol in portions at 0 C. and the mixture was stirred for 30 min. Next 1 4 bromomethyl phenyl cyclobutanol 39 3.5 g 14.6 mmol dissolved in THF 10 mL was added dropwise at 0 C. and the mixture was allowed to warm to RT and stir overnight. The progress of the reaction was monitored by TLC TLC system 30 EtOAc Pet ether Rvalue 0.4 

After completion of the reaction the reaction mixture was quenched with ice cold water at 0 C. and extracted with ethyl acetate 2 150 mL . The combined organic layers were dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and the solvent was removed under reduced pressure. The crude product was purified over silica gel 100 200 mesh column chromatography eluting with 25 EtOAc Pet ether to give 1 4 5 nitroindolin 1 yl methyl phenyl cyclobutanol 40 as a brown liquid.

A mixture of 1 4 5 nitroindolin 1 yl methyl phenyl cyclobutanol 40 1.0 g 3.0 mmol and Raney Ni 0.2 g in ethanol 60 mL was stirred under a balloon pressure of hydrogen at RT overnight. The progress of the reaction was monitored by TLC TLC system 50 EtOAc Pet ether Rvalue 0.01 

After completion of the reaction the reaction mixture was filtered through Celite bed washing with ethanol the filtrate was evaporated under reduced pressure to give crude 1 4 5 aminoindolin 1 yl methyl phenyl cyclobutanol 41 as a brown liquid.

To a stirred solution of 1 4 5 aminoindolin 1 yl methyl phenyl cyclobutanol 41 0.6 g 2.0 mmol in dichloromethane 30 mL was added EtN 0.42 mL 3.1 mmol dropwise at 0 C. over 20 min. AcO 0.24 mL 2.4 mmol was added dropwise at 0 C. and the reaction mixture was stirred for 30 min. The progress of the reaction was monitored by TLC TLC system 70 EtOAc Pet ether KMnO UV Rvalue 0.1 

After completion of the reaction the reaction mixture was quenched with ice water and extracted with dichloromethane 2 80 mL . The combined organic layers were dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and evaporated under reduced pressure. The crude product was purified by 100 200 silica gel column chromatography eluting with 70 EtOAc Pet ether to afford product 84 by LCMS . The impure product was purified by Prep HPLC to afford N 1 4 1 hydroxycyclobutyl benzyl indolin 5 yl acetamide 42 as an off white solid.

To a stirred solution of 5 nitroindoline 12 0.2 g 12 mmol in THF 50 mL was added NaH 0.87 g 18 mmol in portions at 0 C. and the mixture was allowed to warm to RT and stir for 20 min. Methyl 4 bromo methyl benzoate 28 2.79 g 1.0 eq. dissolved in THF 10 mL was added drop wise at 0 C. The resulting reaction mixture was allowed to warm to RT and stir for 20 h. The progress of the reaction was monitored by TLC TLC system 30 EtOAc Pet ether Rvalue 0.5 

After completion of the reaction the reaction mixture was quenched with ice cold water and extracted with ethyl acetate 2 150 mL . The combined organic layers were dried over anhydrous sodium sulphate and evaporated under reduced pressure. The crude product was purified over silica gel 100 200 mesh column chromatography eluting with 10 EtOAc Pet ether to afford methyl 4 5 nitrooindolin 1 yl methyl benzoate 29 as a yellow solid. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.06 8.00 m 3H 7.93 d 1H J 0.8 Hz 7.34 d 2H J 8.0 Hz 6.33 d 1H J 8.8 Hz 4.48 s 2H 3.90 s 3H 3.64 t 2H J 8.8 Hz 3.12 t 2H J 8.0 Hz .

To a cold stirred solution of methyl 4 5 nitrooindolin 1 yl methyl benzoate 29 1.5 g 4.0 mmol in ethanol 20 mL was added SnCl 2.72 g 14 mmol in HCl 15 mL in portions. The resulting reaction mixture was heated to 80 C. for 2 h. The progress of the reaction was monitored by TLC TLC system 30 EtOAc Pet ether Rvalue 0.1 

After completion of the reaction the reaction mixture was cooled to RT and evaporated under reduced pressure. Saturated NaHCOsolution was added to the crude product and the mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate 2 100 mL . The combined organic layers were dried over sodium sulphate and evaporated under reduced pressure to give crude methyl 4 5 aminoindolin 1 yl methyl benzoate 43 LCMS shows mixture of methyl and ethyl ester forms .

To a stirred solution of methyl 4 5 aminoindolin 1 yl methyl benzoate 43 1.3 g 4 mmol in dichloromethane 40 mL was added EtN 0.96 mL 6 mmol dropwise at 0 C. over 20 min. AcO 0.56 mL 5 mmol was added dropwise at 0 C. and the reaction mixture was stirred for 15 min. The progress of the reaction was monitored by TLC TLC system 50 EtOAc Pet ether Rvalue 0.1 

After completion of the reaction the reaction mixture was quenched with ice cold water and extracted with dichloromethane 2 100 mL . The combined organic layers were dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and evaporated under reduced pressure. The crude product was purified by 100 200 silica gel column chromatography eluting with 30 EtOAc Pet ether to afford methyl 4 5 acetamidoindolin 1 yl methyl benzoate 44 as a brown liquid. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.01 dd 2H J 8.0 J 1.6 Hz 7.42 d 2H J 8.0 Hz 7.31 s 1H 7.007 6.96 m 2H 6.35 d 1H J 8.4 Hz 4.40 4.35 m 1H 4.25 s 2H 3.91 s 2H 3.32 t 2H J 8.4 Hz 2.97 t 2H J 8.4 Hz 2.12 s 3H .

To a stirred solution of methyl 4 5 acetamidoindolin 1 yl methyl benzoate 44 0.9 g 2.8 mmol in MeOH 10 mL and THF 7 mL was added NaOH 0.22 g 5.6 mmol in water 3.2 mL dropwise at RT. The resulting reaction mixture was heated to 60 C. for 3 h. The progress of the reaction was monitored by TLC TLC system 70 EtOAc Pet ether Rvalue 0.01 

After completion of the reaction the reaction mixture was evaporated under reduced pressure to afford the crude product. The crude product was acidified with 2N HCl solution and extracted with ethyl acetate 2 50 mL . The organic layer was dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and evaporated under reduced pressure to give 4 5 acetamidoindolin 1 yl methyl benzoic acid 45 as a light brown solid. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 12.6 br s 1H 9.58 s 1H 7.91 d 2H J 8.0 Hz 7.46 d 2H J 8.4 Hz 7.11 dd 3H J 8.4 J 1.2 Hz 6.47 d 1H J 8.4 Hz 4.27 s 2H 3.22 t 2H J 8.4 Hz 2.87 t 2H J 8.0 Hz 1.96 s 3H .

To a stirred solution of 4 5 acetamidoindolin 1 yl methyl benzoic acid 45 0.2 g 0.6 mmol in THF 20 mL was added NMP 0.085 mL 0.7 mmol and Isobutyl chloroformate 0.1 mL 0.7 mmol at 50 C. and the reaction mixture was stirred for 30 min. 2M NHin THF 15 mL was added dropwise and the reaction mixture was stirred for 30 min. The progress of the reaction was monitored by TLC TLC system 5 MeOH dichloromethane Rvalue 0.30 

After completion of the reaction the reaction mixture was quenched with ice water and extracted with ethyl acetate 2 60 mL . The combined organic layers were dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and evaporated under reduced pressure. The crude product 110 mg was purified by Prep HPLC to afford the title product 4 5 acetamidoindolin 1 yl methyl benzamide 46 as a brown solid. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 9.56 s 1H 7.92 s 1H 7.84 d 2H J 8.0 Hz 7.41 d 2H J 8.4 Hz 7.32 s 2H 7.09 t 1H J 8.0 Hz 6.48 d 1H J 8.0 Hz 4.25 s 2H 3.21 t 2H J 8.4 Hz 2.86 t 2H J 8.0 Hz 1.96 s 3H . LC MS 95.29 at 215 nm and 92.28 at 254 nm m z 310.1 M H . HPLC 95.98 at 215 nm.

To a stirred solution of 4 5 acetamidoindolin 1 yl methyl benzoic acid 45 0.2 g 0.6 mmol in DMF 2 mL was added CHNH.HCl 0.064 g 0.9 mmol HATU 0.3 g 0.9 mmol at 0 C. and the reaction mixture was stirred for 20 min. DIPEA 0.53 mL 3.2 mmol was added dropwise and the reaction mixture was allowed to warm to RT and stir overnight. The progress of the reaction was monitored by TLC TLC system 5 MeOH dichloromethane Rvalue 0.5 

After completion of the reaction the reaction mixture was purified by column chromatography. The crude product was purified over silica gel 100 200 mesh column chromatography eluting with 70 ethyl acetate pet ether to afford 4 5 acetamidoindolin 1 yl methyl N methylbenzamide 47 as an off white stickly solid. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 9.56 s 1H 8.38 d 1H J 4.8 Hz 7.79 d 2H J 8.4 Hz 7.41 d 2H J 8.4 Hz 7.32 s 1H 7.11 dd 1H J 8.4 J 2.0 Hz 6.48 d 1H J 8.4 Hz 4.24 s 2H 3.21 t 2H J 8.4 Hz 2.86 t 2H J 8.0 Hz 2.81 2.73 m 3H 1.96 s 3H . LC MS 95.19 at 215 nm and 89.63 at 254 nm m z 324.1 M H . HPLC 95.49 at 210 nm.

To a stirred solution of 4 5 acetamidoindolin 1 yl methyl benzoic acid 45 0.2 g 0.6 mmol in DMF 3 mL was added CH NH.HCl 0.078 g 0.9 mmol HATU 0.36 g 0.9 mmol at 0 C. and the reaction mixture was stirred for 20 min. DIPEA 0.53 mL 3.2 mmol was added dropwise and the reaction mixture was allowed to warm to RT and stir overnight. The progress of the reaction was monitored by TLC TLC system 5 MeOH dichloromethane Rvalue 0.6 

After completion of the reaction the crude product was purified over silica gel 100 200 mesh column chromatography without workup eluting with 60 ethyl acetate pet ether to afford the product 66 by LC MS . The impure product was purified by Prep TLC to afford the title product 4 5 acetamidoindolin 1 yl methyl N N dimethylbenzamide 48 as an off white solid. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 9.56 s 1H 7.40 7.35 m 4H 7.32 s 1H 7.12 dd 1H J 8.4 J 2.0 Hz 6.50 d 1H J 8.0 Hz 4.24 s 2H 3.22 t 2H J 8.4 Hz 2.96 2.84 m 8H 1.96 s 3H . LC MS 98.35 at 215 nm and 97.15 at 254 nm m z 338.2 M H . HPLC 97.45 at 215 nm.

To a stirred solution of 4 5 acetamidoindolin 1 yl methyl benzoic acid 45 0.3 g 0.96 mmol in DMF 4 mL was added N methyl aniline 0.158 g 1.4 mmol and HATU 0.55 g 1.4 mmol at 0 C. and the mixture was stirred for 20 min. DIPEA 0.63 mL 3.8 mmol was added dropwise and the mixture was allowed to warm to RT and stir overnight. The progress of the reaction was monitored by TLC TLC system 5 MeOH dichloromethane Rvalue 0.5 

The crude product was purified over silica gel 100 200 mesh column chromatography without workup eluting with 80 ethyl acetate pet ether to afford crude product 84 by LC MS . The impure product was purified by Prep HPLC to afford 4 5 acetamidoindolin 1 yl methyl N methyl N phenylbenzamide 49 as an off white solid. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 9.54 s 1H 7.29 7.13 m 10H 7.07 dd 1H J 8.4 J 2.0 Hz 6.38 d 1H J 8.4 Hz 4.11 s 2H 3.39 s 3H 3.11 t 2H J 8.0 Hz 2.82 t 2H J 8.0 Hz 1.95 s 3H . LC MS 97.25 at 215 nm and 93.41 at 254 nm m z 400.2 M H .

To a stirred solution of 4 5 acetamidoindolin 1 yl methyl benzoic acid 45 0.2 g 0.6 mmol in DMF 5 mL was added aniline 0.09 mL 1.5 eq. and HATU 0.36 g 0.9 mmol at 0 C. and the mixture was stirred for 30 min. DIPEA 0.42 mL 2.0 mmol was added dropwise and the reaction mixture was allowed to warm to RT and stir overnight. The progress of the reaction was monitored by TLC TLC system 5 MeOH dichloromethane Rvalue 0.65 

After completion of the reaction the reaction mixture was quenched with water and extracted with ethyl acetate 2 100 mL . The combined organic layers were dried over sodium sulfate and evaporated under reduced pressure. The crude product was purified over silica gel 100 200 mesh column chromatography eluting with 50 ethyl acetate pet ether to afford 4 5 acetamidoindolin 1 yl methyl N phenylbenzamide 50 as an off white solid. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d6 10.20 s 1H 9.56 s 1H 7.92 d 2H J 8.0 Hz 7.76 d 2H J 8.0 Hz 7.50 d 2H J 8.0 Hz 7.34 t 3H J 8.0 Hz 7.13 7.07 m 2H 6.51 d 1H 8.4 Hz 4.29 s 2H 3.31 3.22 m 2H 2.88 t 2H J 8.0 Hz 1.96 s 3H . LC MS 95.21 at 215 nm and 93.17 at 254 nm m z 386.2 M H . HPLC 95.25 at 215 nm.

To a stirred solution of 5 nitroindole 51 0.50 g 3.1 mmol and 2 4 bromomethyl phenyl 1 1 1 3 3 3 hexafluoropropan 2 ol 2 1.2 g 3.7 mmol in THF 10 mL was added 60 NaH 0.24 g 6.2 mmol in portions at 0 C. The resulting reaction mixture was heated to reflux for 2 h. The progress of the reaction was monitored by TLC TLC system 20 EtOAc Pet ether Rvalue 0.55 

After completion of the reaction the reaction mixture was cooled to RT quenched with ice cold water and extracted with ethyl acetate 2 50 mL . The combined organic layers were dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and the solvent was removed under reduced pressure to afford crude 1 1 1 3 3 3 hexafluoro 2 4 5 nitro 1H indol 1 yl methyl phenyl propan 2 ol 52 as a yellow solid.

To a stirred solution of 1 1 1 3 3 3 hexafluoro 2 4 5 nitro 1H indol 1 yl methyl phenyl propan 2 ol 52 0.3 g 0.72 mmol in ethanol 3 mL and ethyl acetate 2.1 mL was added SnCl.2HO 0.647 g 2.9 mmol by in portions at RT. The resulting reaction mixture was heated to reflux and stirred for 2 h. The progress of the reaction was monitored by TLC TLC system 40 EtOAc Pet ether Rvalue 0.15 

After completion of the reaction the reaction mixture was basified with saturated sodium bicarbonate and extracted with ethyl acetate 2 50 mL . The combined organic layers were dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and the solvent was removed under reduced pressure to afford crude 2 4 5 amino 1H indol 1 yl methyl phenyl 1 1 1 3 3 3 hexafluoropropan 2 ol 53 as a gummy liquid.

To a stirred solution of 2 4 5 amino 1H indol 1 yl methyl phenyl 1 1 1 3 3 3 hexafluoropropan 2 ol 53 0.2 g 0.52 mmol in dichloromethane 20 mL was added acetic anhydride 1 mL at RT. The resulting reaction mixture was heated to reflux and stirred for 30 min. The progress of the reaction was monitored by TLC TLC system 60 EtOAc Pet ether Rvalue 0.5 

After completion of reaction the reaction mixture was cooled to RT basified with NaHCOsolution and extracted with dichloromethane 2 50 mL . The combined organic layers were dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and the solvent was removed under reduced pressure. The crude product was purified over silica gel 100 200 mesh column chromatography eluting with 30 EtOAc Pet ether to afford N 1 4 1 1 1 3 3 3 hexafluoro 2 hydroxypropan 2 yl benzyl 1H indol 5 yl acetamide 54 as an off white solid. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 9.72 s 1H 8.61 s 1H 7.87 d 1H J 1.6 Hz 7.60 d 2H J 8.4 Hz 7.47 d 1H J 3.2 Hz 7.34 d 1H J 8.8 Hz 7.26 d 2H J 8.4 Hz 7.18 dd 1H J 8.8 J 2.0 Hz 6.44 d 1H J 2.8 Hz 5.44 s 2H 2.01 s 3H . LC MS 97.58 at 215 nm and 97.69 at 254 nm m z 429.2 M H HPLC 98.70 at 240 nm.

The compounds according to Formula I are RORa and or RORy modulators and are useful in the treatment of ROR and or ROR regulated diseases. The biological activities of the compounds according to Formula I can be determined using any suitable assay for determining the activity of a candidate compound as a RORa and or RORy modulator as well as in tissue and in vivo models.

Peripheral blood mononuclear cells PBMCs were sourced from freshly prepared leukocyte enriched plasma buffy coat from healthy volunteers from which PBMCs were isolated by density gradient centrifugation using Ficoll Paque PLUS GE Healthcare . Na ve CD4 T cells were isolated using the Na ve CD4 T cell Isolation Kit II Miltenyi Biotec as per manufacturer s instructions. CD4 T cells were plated at 5 10cells well in 96 well plates pre coated with immobilized human h CD3 antibody eBioscience then differentiated to T17 cells using h CD28 h IFN h IL4 h IL6 h IL23 h IL1 h TGF 1 eBioscience and maintained in a cell culture incubator at 37 C. with 5 COin TexMACS Medium Miltenyi Biotec supplemented with 1 Penicillin Streptomycin Lonza over 5 days.

Human CD4 T cells were differentiated to T17 cells as described in the presence or absence of various concentrations of compounds in a final concentration of 0.1 DMSO in TexMACS medium. Supernatants were collected and stored at 20 C. until they were to be assayed for IL 17A IL 17F IL 17AF IL 21 and or IL 22 levels as determined by Ready Set Go ELISA kits eBioscience as per manufacturer s instructions. Endpoint absorbance was read at 450 nm and 570 nm according to manufacturer s instructions eBioscience using a microplate reader Perkin Elmer . The percentage of cytokine inhibition was calculated with reference to DMSO treated cells and the ICs were determined by GraphPad Prism software and presented in the table below.

Cells were assayed for viability in the presence or absence of compound using Prestoblue Cell Viability Reagent Life Technologies as per manufacturer s instructions after 30 minutes incubation of T17 cells with reagent. Absorbance was measured at 570 nm and 600 nm using a microplate reader Perkin Elmer and data were analyzed as per manufacturer s instructions. Cell viability was expressed as a percentage of DMSO treated cells. The percentage viability of compound treated T17 cells are presented in the table below.

Cellular proliferation was assessed in the presence or absence of 3 M compound using Prestoblue Cell Viability Reagent Life Technologies as per manufacturer s instructions using absorbance as the output measured by a microplate reader Perkin Elmer after 30 minutes of incubation of cells and reagent. A standard curve developed by plotting varying cell numbers versus absorbance was used to assess differences in cellular proliferation between compound treated or untreated cells after the 5 day T17 differentiation period. Percentage change in T17 cell number in the presence of compound are presented in the table below.

RNA was isolated from T17 cells and cDNA was synthesized using the Verso cDNA kit Thermo Scientific as per manufacturer s instructions. IL 17A IL 17F IL 21 IL 22 G CSF IL 23R and FOXP3 gene expression were determined for compound treated and untreated T17 cell samples using Solaris qPCR Gene expression assays Thermo Scientific with an iCycler iQ Real Time PCR Detection System Bio Rad . Individual gene expression was normalized to a panel of six reference genes ACTB TBP HPRT1 PGK1 TFRC and PPIA Thermo Scientific and analyzed by REST 2009 Qiagen in accordance to MIQE guidelines Bustin et al. 2009 55 611 622 . The effects of compounds on T17 cytokine mRNA levels are presented as fold change in gene expression of compound treated T17 cells relative to DMSO treated cells in the table below.

Compound binding to the human ROR LBD was assessed using the Human ROR Assay System INDIGO Biosciences Inc. as per manufacturer s instructions. Binding to the ROR LBD was assessed using gradient concentrations of the indicated compounds in a final concentration of 0.5 DMSO where ICs were generated using Graphpad Prism and presented in the table below.

The Time Resolved Fluorescence Resonance Energy Transfer TR FRET assay kit Life Technologies was used to measure compound efficacy to disrupt or enhance ligand mediated interaction of the co activator and co repressor peptides with the purified GST tagged i ROR LBD or ii ROR LBD. The ROR LBD and ROR LBD each have a basal level of interaction with the co activator D22 or co repressor NCoR1 D2 in the absence of ligand thus it is possible to identify compounds that inhibit or induce ROR and or ROR co activator co repressor interactions thus determining ROR ROR or ROR ROR compound selectivity. The assay was performed as per manufacturer s instructions and TR FRET was assessed 2 and 20 hours post assay initiation. Compounds were identified to i have no impact on either co activator displacement or co activator recruitment from the assessed LBD ii promote co activator displacement from the assessed LBD iii promote co repressor recruitment to the assessed LBD or iv concurrently promote co activator displacement from the assessed LBD and co repressor recruitment to the assessed LBD. The ECpotency of compounds tested for co activator displacement and co repressor recruitment to ROR and ROR are presented in the table below.

Those skilled in the art will recognize or be able to ascertain using no more than routine experimentation numerous equivalents to the specific embodiments described specifically herein. Such equivalents are intended to be encompassed in the scope of the following claims.

