---

title: Non-metered wireless system and method to render usage based invoices for storage tank consumables
abstract: A method, system and computer-readable medium for managing usage of storage tank consumables in a storage tank are provided. This is achieved by receiving and storing by a central server comprising a processor and a storage device, measurements of storage tank consumables from a remote system associated with a storage tank; periodically calculating by the processor usage-based data for generating invoices for storage tank consumables based on sensor measurements representative of an estimated usage of the storage tank consumables; receiving and storing by the central server a fill value representing an actual usage reported to the central server when the storage tank is filled; and reconciling the estimated usage with the actual usage by the processor by summing all estimated usages since a last fill of the storage tank, calculating a difference between the sum of the estimated usages and the fill value, and issuing a debit or credit based on the difference for reconciliation.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09646330&OS=09646330&RS=09646330
owner: 
number: 09646330
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20131128
---
This application claims priority from U.S. provisional application Ser. No. 61 733 602 filed Dec. 5 2012 and U.S. provisional application Ser. No. 61 892 043 filed Oct. 17 2013 the disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

This invention relates to processing information for storage tank consumables and specifically to non metered wireless system method and computer readable instructions for rendering usage based invoices for storage tank consumables.

Consumers typically pay for stored consumables like propane and fuel oil on a cash on delivery basis. This can be an economic burden to the consumer and the dealer delivering the consumable. If the customer can t afford to fully replenish the consumable item the dealer is left with the full delivery costs even though only a partial delivery was made. This increases the costs and reduces revenue to the dealer.

Accordingly there is a need in the art for a system and method to issue usage based bills in order to move consumers to a monthly billing model that doesn t require a meter to be installed.

Broadly speaking a usage based billing system is provided with a function to true up the actual vs. estimated values upon a consumable delivery.

The invention can be implemented in numerous ways including as a system a device apparatus a method or a computer readable medium. Several embodiments of the invention are discussed below.

As a method an embodiment herein provides for managing usage of storage tank consumables in a storage tank. This is achieved by receiving and storing by a central server comprising a processor and a storage device measurements of storage tank consumables from a remote system associated with a storage tank periodically calculating by the processor usage based data for generating invoices for storage tank consumables based on sensor measurements representative of an estimated usage of the storage tank consumables receiving and storing by the central server a fill value representing an actual usage reported to the central server when the storage tank is filled and reconciling the estimated usage with the actual usage by the processor by summing all estimated usages since a last fill of the storage tank calculating a difference between the sum of the estimated usages and the fill value and issuing a debit or credit based on the difference for reconciliation.

In further embodiments the method also provides for one or more of measuring storage tank consumables via a sensor device of the remote system adapted to measure usage of the storage tank consumables processing the sensor measurements by a processing device in communication with the sensor device wherein the processing device is adapted to convert the sensor measurements into a predetermined protocol message for transmission communicating between the central server and the remote system via a communication interface adapted to transmit the predetermined protocol message providing a user interface adapted to grant access to data stored and processed by the central server and provide reports based on the data.

In still further embodiments the method allows for providing storage tank consumable data and customer data graphically via a map displayed on a display device for one or more storage tanks managed by the central server by generating via the processor a map view comprising icons overlaid on the map based on service addresses wherein the icons provide selectable links to the storage tank consumable data and customer data and further wherein the icons are color coded to be indicative of tank level readings.

The method further provides for generating via the processor tank level reports for one or more storage tanks managed by the central server wherein the tank level reports are adapted to report data that exceeds certain predetermined thresholds and generate a report based on routing zones for tank filling routes. The method further provides for periodically generating via the processor invoices such as monthly based on the estimated usage of the storage tank consumables to allow for a plurality of billing cycles between tank fills wherein after the storage tank is filled adjusting the next invoice via the processor in order to reconcile the estimated usage with the actual usage.

The above noted method may be implemented on a non transitory computer readable medium containing instructions that when executed by a processor perform the method herein.

A system for managing usage of storage tank consumables in a storage tank is also provided. The system includes a central server comprising a processor and a database adapted to communicate with a processing device of a remote system associated with the storage tank through a communication interface wherein the processed sensor measurements of the remote system are received by the central server for further processing and storage wherein the further processing comprises executing a usage based billing process adapted to periodically calculate usage based data for generating invoices for storage tank consumables based on sensor measurements representative of an estimated usage of the storage tank consumables receive and store a fill value representing an actual usage reported to the central server when the storage tank is filled reconcile the estimated usage with the actual usage by summing all estimated usages since a last fill of the storage tank calculating a difference between the sum of the estimated usages and the fill value and issuing a debit or credit based on the difference for reconciliation.

In further embodiments a remote system associated with the storage tank is also provided which has a sensor device unit adapted to measure storage tank consumables a processing device in communication with the sensor device adapted process sensor measurements and a communication interface. The processing device of the remote system is further adapted to convert the sensor measurements into a predetermined protocol message for transmission via the communication interface.

In further embodiments the usage based billing process of the system is further adapted to provide storage tank consumable data and customer data graphically via a map displayed on a display device for one or more storage tanks managed by the central server by generating via the processor a map view comprising icons overlaid on the map based on service addresses wherein the icons provide selectable links to the storage tank consumable data and customer data and further wherein the icons are color coded to be indicative of tank level readings.

In further embodiments the usage based billing process of the system is further adapted to generate tank level reports for one or more storage tanks managed by the central server wherein the tank level reports are adapted to report data that exceeds certain predetermined thresholds and generate a report based on routing zones for tank filling routes.

In further embodiments the usage based billing process is further adapted to periodically generate invoices based on the estimated usage of the storage tank consumables to allow for a plurality of billing cycles between tank fills wherein after the storage tank is filled the usage based billing process is further adapted to adjust the next invoice in order to reconcile the estimated usage with the actual usage.

The advantages of the invention are numerous. One significant advantage of the invention is that it allows for businesses like propane and fuel oil dealers to move customers to a monthly billing model that doesn t require a meter to be installed.

Other aspects and advantages of the invention will become apparent from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings illustrating by way of example the principles of the invention.

All patents patent applications provisional applications and publications referred to or cited herein or from which a claim for benefit of priority has been made are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety to the extent they are not inconsistent with the explicit teachings of this specification.

Downstream sensor devices unit are typically variable resistance devices or contact closure systems which complete a circuit when an event occurs. The chip unit has multiple Analog to Digital converters ADC on board to facilitate reading an analog voltage and converting that voltage into a digital value to be processed later by the software in the web portal unit . The current design permits up to 3 ADC connections per chip but this could be expanded by swapping out the Microprocessor chip to a similar model with a high pin count. The way the sensor device works is the chip unit upon receiving power from the Communications system unit will send voltage of some value to the sensor device unit . The sensor device will return some portion of that voltage 0 100 which is then used to determine the state of what you are sensing. In the case of a Hall Effect device on a Propane tank dial the return voltage is used to determine the position of the tank float gauge as the percentage of returned voltage is dependent upon the position of the gauge and dial assembly. When the chip unit receives the return voltage is assembles it into a message based on the configured protocol to be transmitted to the Communications System unit . Using the propane tank example the voltage is added to the data fields of a modified Sensus protocol messages used in water metering. The protocol was modified to allow for a security checksum to be added to overcome some limitations of the protocol. In this example the message is transmitted from the Chip unit to the Communications system unit via a UART serial connection. The Communications system unit verifies the checksum and if valid accepts the message and cuts power to the chip unit turning it off to conserve power.

Once a valid message is received from the chip unit by the Communications system unit it will transmit that message to the Database unit via a communications link unit which can be wired or wireless in nature. The Database unit houses received data from a plurality of chips unit Sensors unit and Communications systems unit to be processed by the software unit .

The software unit is accessed by customers to view data received from monitored devices plan service calls determine consumable usage for billing purposes and monitor inventory levels among other things. The viewing is done via a web portal or Application Programming Interface API wherein the user is allowed to view the data associated with his user accounts right and privileges. The Software unit also permits the user to load bulk data into the system for processing and display. This data may include delivery data for consumable items customer identifying information or other bulk data to be associated with customer accounts in the system.

One of the most innovative functions of the Software unit is the ability to issue usage based bills with a function to true up the actual vs. estimated values upon a consumable delivery. This functionality allows for businesses like propane and fuel oil dealers to move customers to a monthly usage based billing model that doesn t require a meter to be installed. Start and end values read by the sensor unit and chip unit during a defined billing cycle can be used to determine a total amount of consumable product used. This data can then be used to render an invoice for that month the same as common utilities like Electric and Water. This eases the burden on the consumer who typically pays for consumables on a Cash on Delivery COD basis which can be an economic burden to the consumer and the dealer delivering the consumable. If the customer can t afford to fully replenish the consumable item the dealer is left with the full delivery costs even though only a partial delivery was made. This increases the costs and reduces revenue to the dealer. By converting to a usage billing model the dealer is able to optimize delivery schedules based on known consumable levels and maximize delivery efficiency by filling consumables fully on each delivery. When the consumable is refilled the amount of the fill is uploaded to the Software unit via the web portal of API interface and when the next invoice is generated for that customer the estimated usage since the last delivery is compared to the known delivery amount and a debit or credit of any difference is issued on the invoice. This ensures that the customer account is balanced each time a delivery occurs.

In operation an embodiment of the system is adapted to execute the following processes with reference to . With reference to the process starts with the beginning of a read processes. A radio supplies voltage to a processing device such as an integrated circuit. The IC wakes up and runs a program stored in EEPROM. The IC supplies analog voltage to a sensor device in communication therewith. A variable resistor on the sensor cuts supplied voltage by a predetermined percentage based on a measured value. An A D converter reads the return voltage after a preconfigured delay to allow for the voltage to settle and passes the return voltage to the IC. The IC calculates the voltage and builds predetermined protocol message for communication such as via a radio. The IC can also calculate a predetermined checksum for the protocol message and appends it to the back of the message before transmitting. The IC transmits the message to the communication interface such as a radio. The radio calculated the checksum of the received message.

If the checksum is valid the radio transmits the protocol message to a base station receiver which is then transmitted to a central system where the message is stored in a database for further processing by a program adapted to manage usage of the storage tank consumables hereinafter referred to as OWL software. Otherwise if the checksum is not valid a check is made as to whether power has been applied for a predetermined period of time such as 2200 ms. If not the process returns to the IC supplying voltage to the sensor device. If so power is turned off to the IC a failure message is transmitted to the base station receiver and a programmed time interval is waited for between reads and then the read process begins again.

Turning now to the processing via the OWL software will now be described by example. The OWL software preferably provides a customized portal to users with selection options based on user rights and dealer purchased services. From this portal the user can select from one or more of the following based on user rights Mapping Reporting Radio Management Customers Upload Data and Account. Each of these will be described by way of example below.

The Mapping selection detailed in is adapted to provide geographic location information to the user. This can be accomplished for example by passing variables to a mapping program such as Google Maps API for display to the user. The variables comprise for example customer name service address latest sensor reading and a pin color variable customizable by the dealer . Thereafter the map API is loaded in order to display the provided information on a map overlay. In an embodiment the customer name and latest reading can be shown in column form in one part of the display with the map view on the other See as an example map view . The mapping selection is preferably adapted to provide for additional information such as allowing the user to click on a customer or pin which displays details in a popup and provides a link to the customer profile.

The Customers selection detailed in is adapted to provide customer details. This can be accomplished for example by providing an interface display in tabular form for example with the following information Customer ID Customer Name Account Number and Service Address. Selecting the information links to those details and allows editing based on privilege level.

The Radio Management selection detailed in is adapted to provide management of the radio information. This can be accomplished for example by providing an interface display in tabular form for example with the following information Radio ID Customer ID Name Service Address Latest Sensor Data Provisioned Status. Selecting the information links to those details and allows editing based on privilege level.

The Upload Data selection detailed in is adapted to provide an interface for uploading fill data from the truck metering system. This can be accomplished for example by providing a file search and upload interface to allow the dealer to upload fill data from the truck meter system. Once a file is selected and the upload is executed the file is processed for errors and the user is provided feedback as to the number of accounts matched and fills processed as well as errors encountered. The customer fill records are updated to reflect data from truck meters.

The Account selection detailed in is adapted to provide a management interface for user accounts. This can be accomplished for example by providing an interface for a user to edit change information based on privilege level such as one or more of the following Password Dealer Name Email Address Billing Rates with defaults Billing Cycle Mailing Address Tax Rates Customer Fees and the like.

The Reporting selection detailed in is adapted to provide multiple report types which can be executed. For example the user can select reports such as Tank Levels Quiet Radios Alerts and Invoices. See as an example report of historical usage.

The Tank Levels report is adapted to provide schedule or on demand reports showing sensors which are beyond a specified threshold. This report can also provide a specified routing zone to allow for creation of a list per route or service area.

The Quiet Radios report is adapted to provide scheduled or on demand reports showing all radios which have not reported in to the system for a specified number of hours. This is helpful with troubleshooting and identifying malfunctions.

The Alerts report is adapted to provide critical alert information when sensor reading is beyond a predetermined threshold. This event can be programmed to occur on the first report of a sensor reading that is beyond the predetermined threshold.

The Invoices report is adapted to provide custom invoices for customers based on usage levels See as an example invoice . This report is adapted to generate invoices for a customer based on criteria such as Customer Account is active radio is assigned usage billing is enabled a predetermined number of sensor reads such as 2 have occurred within the requested billing cycle. If the criteria are not met an error message can be displayed and the user can be returned to the user selection menu. If the criteria are met the usage based billing process is executed.

The usage based billing process will now be exampled using the example flowchart of . Initially the current usage is set to zero and the start value is set to the oldest sensor data for the period. The next sensor value for the billing period is read and set as the current value. The sensor data is checked to see if it is changing as expected for the application. If so the difference between the start and current values is calculated and added to current usage. If the current value is not the last in series for the period then the current value is set to the start value and the process returns the next sensor value for the billing period being read and sets it as the current value then repeats the calculation. If the current value is the last in series for the period then a Close Invoice Window process is executed wherein an invoice line item is added for estimated usage equal to current usage the invoice is presented for review. If the invoice is not accepted the process returns to the Generate Invoices for Customers process. If the invoice is accepted the invoice is saved to the database and an option is presented for downloading such as a PDF .

If the sensor data checked is not changing as expected for the application the change is compared to a predetermined threshold. If it is not greater than the threshold then there is no usage and the process returns the next sensor value for the billing period being read and sets it as the current value. If it is greater than the threshold then a fill has occurred. The process continues to check if the current usage is greater than zero. If not the current value is set as the start value and the process returns to reading the next sensor value for the billing period. If the current usage is greater than zero the processes checks to see if a fill event exists in the database if not the current value is set as the start value and the process returns to reading the next sensor value for the billing period .

If a fill event exists in the database then a Close Invoice Window process is executed wherein an invoice line item is added for estimated usage equal to current usage. The process then looks back into the database to sum all the estimated usage since the last fill. It calculates the difference between the estimated sum and the fill value. With this calculation an invoice line item is added to show a debit or credit based on the difference in order to reconcile the estimated usage with the actual usage. If the current value is the last sensor reading for a billing period the process continues to the Close Invoice Window process wherein an invoice line item is added for estimated usage equal to current usage the invoice is presented for review. If the invoice is not accepted the process returns to the Generate Invoices for Customers process. If the invoice is accepted the invoice is saved to the database and an option is presented for downloading such as a PDF . If the current value is not the last sensor reading for a billing period the process sets current usage to zero sets current value to start value and returns to reading the next sensor value for the billing period.

An exemplary system for implementing software aspects of the invention includes a computing device or a network of computing devices. In a basic configuration computing device may include any type of stationary computing device or a mobile computing device. Computing device typically includes at least one processing unit and system memory. Depending on the exact configuration and type of computing device system memory may be volatile such as RAM non volatile such as ROM flash memory and the like or some combination of the two. System memory typically includes operating system one or more applications and may include program data. Computing device may also have additional features or functionality. For example computing device may also include additional data storage devices removable and or non removable such as for example magnetic disks optical disks or tape. Computer storage media may include volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. System memory removable storage and non removable storage are all examples of computer storage media. Non transitory computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other physical medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by computing device. Any such computer storage media may be part of device. Computing device may also have input device s such as a keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device etc. Output device s such as a display speakers printer etc. may also be included. Computing device also contains communication connection s that allow the device to communicate with other computing devices such as over a network or a wireless network. By way of example and not limitation communication connection s may include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media.

Computer program code for carrying out operations of the invention described above may be written in a high level programming language such as C or C for development convenience. In addition computer program code for carrying out operations of embodiments of the present invention may also be written in other programming languages such as but not limited to interpreted languages. Some modules or routines may be written in assembly language or even micro code to enhance performance and or memory usage. It will be further appreciated that the functionality of any or all of the program modules may also be implemented using discrete hardware components one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs or a programmed digital signal processor or microcontroller. A code in which a program of the present invention is described can be included as a firmware in a RAM a ROM and a flash memory. Otherwise the code can be stored in a tangible computer readable storage medium such as a magnetic tape a flexible disc a hard disc a compact disc a photo magnetic disc a digital versatile disc DVD . The present invention can be configured for use in a computer or an information processing apparatus which includes a memory such as a central processing unit CPU a RAM and a ROM as well as a storage medium such as a hard disc.

The step by step process for performing the claimed functions herein is a specific algorithm and may be shown as a mathematical formula in the text of the specification as prose and or in a flow chart. The instructions of the software program create a special purpose machine for carrying out the particular algorithm. Thus in any means plus function claim herein in which the disclosed structure is a computer or microprocessor programmed to carry out an algorithm the disclosed structure is not the general purpose computer but rather the special purpose computer programmed to perform the disclosed algorithm.

A general purpose computer or microprocessor may be programmed to carry out the algorithm steps of the present invention creating a new machine. The general purpose computer becomes a special purpose computer once it is programmed to perform particular functions pursuant to instructions from program software of the present invention. The instructions of the software program that carry out the algorithm steps electrically change the general purpose computer by creating electrical paths within the device. These electrical paths create a special purpose machine for carrying out the particular algorithm steps.

Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the discussion it is appreciated that throughout the description discussions utilizing terms such as processing or computing or calculating or determining or displaying or the like refer to the action and processes of a computer system or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and transforms data represented as physical electronic quantities within the computer system s registers and memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the computer system memories or registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices.

It should be understood that the examples and embodiments described herein are for illustrative purposes only and that various modifications or changes in light thereof will be suggested to persons skilled in the art and are to be included within the spirit and purview of this application.

