---

title: Customization of an immersive environment
abstract: A computing device includes an immersive environment module for facilitating simultaneous display of a plurality of applications on a display device without relying on system chrome. At least a first of the applications is displayed in a primary region of the display. The computing device also includes a UI management component for enabling a user selection of an application for simultaneous display on the display device with at least one other application. Processing logic is configured to determine a size in at least one direction of content of a user-selected application as it is displayed on a non-primary region of the display device simultaneous with display of content of the first application on the primary region of the display device. The determination is based at least in part on one or more pre-defined size requirements specified by the selected application.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09430130&OS=09430130&RS=09430130
owner: Microsoft Technology Licensing, LLC
number: 09430130
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131127
---
This application is a continuation of and claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 120 to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 656 639 filed on Oct. 19 2012 which is a continuation of Ser. No. 12 972 611 filed on Dec. 20 2010 the disclosures of which are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.

Managing applications and corresponding running items e.g. open windows on a computer has become increasingly difficult and burdensome as computers are more heavily relied upon now than in the past. The availability of computers having increased computer speed and memory in addition to improved overall computer performance over the last several years has provided users with the capability to efficiently run multiple applications at the same time which was not practical in the past. Users can run a large variety of applications and frequently run more than one application at a time.

Conventional operating systems permit users to view and interact with multiple computing applications through windows. Each of these windows generally includes a frame having controls for interacting with the computing application as well as controls for moving sizing or otherwise managing the layout of the window. These window frames however occupy portions of a display that might otherwise be dedicated to an application s content. Furthermore managing the layouts of these windows through these controls can be time consuming annoying and distracting to users.

This document describes techniques and apparatuses for creating an immersive environment. The immersive environment described herein can present multiple applications without dedicating significant amounts of a display to window frames for the applications. These techniques and or apparatuses enable a user to view and interact with the content of a single application that is presented full screen i.e. without system chrome on a display while maintaining much of the power and flexibility that is available when multiple window frames are available. System chrome refers to the user interactive graphical elements provided by the system for identifying and managing the regions or windows In some implementations the amount of space allocated to the applications when they are presented in a non primary region of the display may be determined at least in part on minimum and or maximum sizes that are specified by the applications themselves. This capability allows application developers to effectively participate in the process used by the computing device when determining how the content of their applications will be presented on the display. For example different content from different applications may require different amounts of screen space in order to be useful. Accordingly different applications may specify different minimum sizes below which they should not be presented on the display. Likewise there may be a maximum size above which content may no longer be useful in practice because of content limitations or other reasons.

This summary is provided to introduce simplified concepts for managing an immersive environment that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This summary is not intended to identify essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended for use in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter. Techniques and or apparatuses for managing an immersive environment are also referred to herein separately or in conjunction as the techniques as permitted by the context.

Some operating systems permit users to view and interact with a single computing application with little or no window frame generally by presenting content of an application on all or nearly all of a computer s display. While this technique permits more of an application s content to be viewed it lacks much of the flexibility permitted by the window based techniques

This document describes techniques and apparatuses for creating an immersive environment in which a user can view and interact with the content of a single application that is presented full screen e.g. without system chrome on a display while maintaining much of the power and flexibility that is available when multiple window frames are available. In particular the immersive environment can present multiple applications without dedicating significant portions of the display to window frames for the applications.

Computing device includes computer processor s and computer readable storage media media . Media includes an operating system immersive environment module manager module and applications each of which may provide content . Computing device also includes or has access to one or more displays four examples of which are illustrated in .

Immersive environment module provides an environment by which a user may view and interact with one or more of applications and corresponding content . In some embodiments this environment presents content of and enables interaction with applications with little or no window frame and or without a need for a user to manually size or position content. This environment can be but is not required to be hosted and or surfaced without use of a windows based desktop environment. Thus in some cases immersive environment module presents an immersive environment that is not a window even one without a substantial frame and precludes usage of desktop like displays e.g. a taskbar . Further still in some embodiments this immersive environment is similar to an operating system in that it is not closeable or capable of being un installed. Examples of immersive environments are provided below as part of describing the techniques though they are not exhaustive or intended to limit the techniques.

Manager module enables a user to manage an immersive environment and applications presented in the environment. Manager and or module can be separate from each other and or operating system or may be combined or integrated in some form. Thus in some cases operating system includes immersive environment module and manager .

The applications that present content in the primary region and the non primary region are not limited to the aforementioned web browser and document viewing applications. Other illustrative examples of applications that may be presented in the immersive environment include without limitation spreadsheet applications word processing applications email applications photo editing applications and the like. Moreover it should be emphasized that while the content of two applications is shown in the non primary region the non primary region more generally may present the content of any number of applications including the content of only a single application.

In a preferred implementation the immersive environment in the application work area does not include any system chrome. System chrome refers to the user interactive graphical elements provided by the system for identifying and managing the regions or windows e.g. primary and non primary regions and . For example in the case of Microsoft Windows system chrome includes the start button maximize and minimize buttons taskbars title bar labels and so on. System chrome does not include however non user interactive graphical elements such as visible lines and blank areas that may be provided to visually separate the content of different applications but which do not allow the user to manage the applications.

In some implementations the primary region occupies a substantially larger portion of the work area than the non primary region . This allows the user to interact with applications that present content in the primary region which is currently the principal focus of the user s attention. Content presented by other applications which is of lesser immediate importance or less demanding of the user s attention may then be presented in the smaller non primary region of the work area . In this way the user can focus on his or her most important tasks while still having immediately access to the content provided by other applications.

The non primary region may be presented anywhere within the work area . Its location may be fixed or variable. For instance in the case of a variable location the location of the non primary region may be user selectable and or selected by immersive environment module based for example on the capabilities of the display device. On the other hand if the location of the non primary region is fixed it may be docked to one side of the work area . Such an arrangement which is shown in the example of allows the content in the primary region to be more centrally presented within the work area where it can be most conveniently be viewed by the user.

Block presents an immersive environment on a display. The immersive environment does not include system chrome. At block a first region and a second region are defined within the immersive environment. The first and second regions do not overlap with one another and therefore are visible to a user at the same time. The first region may be a primary region that is larger in size than the second region. The second region may then serve as a non primary region that is docked to one side of the display.

At block the content of a first executing user interactive application is presented in the first region. Likewise at block the content of one or more other executing user interactive applications are presented in the second region. The content respectively presented in the first and second regions is presented simultaneously with one another. When two or more applications are presented in the non primary region they may be arranged so that that they do not overlap one another.

In some cases the non primary region may be fixed in size. Accordingly to ensure that content presented by different applications do not overlap with one another as additional content from additional applications is presented in the non primary region the amount of space allocated to each application decreases. For instance shows an application work area similar to the application work area shown in except that in the content and of three applications is presented in the non primary region while the content and from only two applications is shown in .

The content displayed in the primary region may be replaced with the content of another application. For instance if the user opens a new application that is to be presented in the primary region the content that is currently being presented may be removed from the immersive environment or alternatively it may be moved into the non primary region. shows an application work area in which the content shown in the primary region of has been replaced with the content of a photo editing application. In this example the original content has been replaced by the content of the photo editing application.

In some cases the content of one or more applications can be maintained pinned on the display by the user. When an application is pinned the application remains in either the primary region or the non primary region and is movable from one region to the other. For instance if the user pins the content and in to the display then when as in the content of another application is displayed the content and remains on the screen. That is in the original content of the document viewing application has been added to the non primary region without replacing the content and of the social networking website and the news website which are presented by web browser applications. The user may also pin the content to the display. In this case since the content of all three applications is pinned if the user then moves content from the primary region to the non primary region the content will be automatically moved from the non primary region to the primary region.

In general the content of a given applications may be able to be presented in both the primary region and the non primary region . In some cases however an application may be configured so that it can only be presented in one of the regions.

In some implementations the user may be able to remove the non primary region so that the content in the primary region can occupy the entire work area. At a later time the user can also restore the non primary region . In addition under certain circumstances the manager may automatically remove the non primary region. For instance if the display is rotated into portrait mode the non primary region may be removed. Likewise when it is rotated back to landscape mode the manager may restore the non primary region.

Any of a wide variety of techniques and apparatuses may be provided for allowing users to manage the immersive environment. Such user interface techniques enable a user to select when where and or under what conditions to present applications in this immersive environment. For instance the manager module of may enable a user to manage the immersive environment and the applications presented in the environment. In particular the manager module may enable selection of the user interface with a non visual selector such as a hot key or selector movement e.g. a mouse selector moved to a right edge of primary region or in the case of a touch screen a gesture. In some other cases however the manager module enables selection through a displayed selectable user interface control. Illustrative examples of user interface techniques and apparatuses that may be used in connection with an immersive environment may be found in co pending U.S. application Ser. No. 12 969 474.

Regardless of the particular user interface that is employed the techniques for creating an immersive environment discussed herein allow users to simultaneously manage multiple applications. Assume for example that a user wishes to select a music application that he used yesterday while maintaining an immersive presentation of work related memos that are currently in a primary area of an immersive environment. These techniques can provide a user interface that presents recently used applications such as the music application and enables the user to quickly and easily present the music application in the primary area while automatically moving the work related memos into the non primary area of the immersive environment.

Also by way of example assume that a user wishes to begin his immersive session each day with the same three applications a sports website a business news website and work related memos. These techniques permit the user to select these three applications to be automatically presented and maintained in the immersive environment. The user may simply open the immersive environment or logon to his computing device to have these three applications presented in the environment.

In some implementations the amount of space allocated to the applications when they are presented in the non primary region of the display may be determined at least in part on minimum maximum sizes that are specified by the applications themselves. This capability allows application developers to effectively participate in the process used by the immersive environment module and or the manager module when determining how the content of their applications will be presented on the display. For example different content from different applications may require different amount of screen space in order to be useful. Accordingly different applications may specify different minimum sizes below which they should no longer be presented in the non primary region of the display. Likewise there may be a maximum size above which content may no longer be useful in practice either because of resolution limitations or for other reasons.

To address these issues applications may specify the size or sizes at which they may be presented on a display device. The allowable size or sizes of an application may be specified in any suitable manner. For instance an application may specify size requirements such as maximum and or minimum size limits a series i.e. two or more of different sizes at which the application s content may be presented a single fixed size and so on.

The applications may be configured in a well known manner to expose one or more APIs application programming interfaces to enable the immersive environment module and or the manager module to present the content of the applications in the non primary region of a display in accordance with the applications size requirements.

The manager module will attempt to simultaneously present the content from all currently executing applications while accommodating or satisfying the size requirements specified by each of those applications. To accomplish this the manager module can be provisioned with display space allocation rules which may include tie breaking rules in the event that the size specifications of two or more applications cannot be satisfied. If it is not possible to satisfy the size requirements of any given application the user will simply not be able to DOCK it in the non primary region. To the extent that the immersive environment module and or the manager module can present the content of an application in multiple sizes supported by the application while accommodating any other currently executing applications the user may be given the opportunity to choose the size that is actually used.

As previously mentioned in some implementations the non primary region shown in is fixed in size. For instance it may occupy the full height of the display while having a fixed width of in one example 320 pixels. Accordingly when the size of the non primary region is fixed in this manner the content of any applications docked in the non primary region will be fixed in width and will vary in height depending on its size e.g. height specifications as well as the size specifications of any other applications that are currently docked.

The height specifications exposed by an application to the manager module may include one or mandatory specifications that are required by the manager module . In addition the manager module may also recognize optional specifications. In some cases a minimum height may be a mandatory specification required by the manager module . The manager module may require the minimum height to be no less than some specified value e.g. between 48 and 240 pixels . If the application specifies an invalid value for the minimum height e.g. a value outside of the minimum range required by the manager module the application s content will be presented in the non primary region with a height corresponding to some default value.

It should be noted that reference to height height requirements and the like is by way of illustration only. More generally size requirements may refer to a size in any direction and not simply height. That is a size requirement may specify the length in one direction of the area occupied by the content of an application in the non primary region of the display. The direction may be along a vertical axis a horizontal axis or any axis there between.

The specification of a maximum height may be mandatory or optional. If it is specified it should be greater than the minimum specified height. In some cases it may have a default value which for example may be set to infinity in which case the content of the application will fill whatever portion of the non primary region is unoccupied.

In some implementations the manager module may also require applications to specify their fill capabilities which may be specified by selecting among three options fill no fill and fill to maximum size. If the fill option is selected the application will fill whatever space e.g. height is available in the non primary region down to its minimum size e.g. height . If the no fill option is selected the application will only be presented at its minimum size regardless of how much space is available in the non primary region. Finally if the fill to maximum size option is selected the application will fill whatever space e.g. height is available in the non primary region up to its maximum size.

The preceding discussion describes methods in which the techniques may operate to provide an immersive environment in the work area of a display. These methods are shown as sets of blocks that specify operations performed but are not necessarily limited to the order shown for performing the operations by the respective blocks.

Aspects of these methods may be implemented in hardware e.g. fixed logic circuitry firmware software manual processing or any combination thereof. A software implementation represents program code that performs specified tasks when executed by a computer processor such as software applications routines programs objects components data structures procedures modules functions and the like. The program code can be stored in one or more computer readable memory devices both local and or remote to a computer processor. The methods may also be practiced in a distributed computing environment by multiple computing devices.

Device includes communication devices that enable wired and or wireless communication of device data e.g. received data data that is being received data scheduled for broadcast data packets of the data etc. . Device data or other device content can include configuration settings of the device media content stored on the device and or information associated with a user of the device. Media content stored on device can include any type of audio video and or image data. Device includes one or more data inputs via which any type of data media content and or inputs can be received such as user selectable inputs messages music television media content recorded video content and any other type of audio video and or image data received from any content and or data source.

Device also includes communication interfaces which can be implemented as any one or more of a serial and or parallel interface a wireless interface any type of network interface a modem and as any other type of communication interface. Communication interfaces provide a connection and or communication links between device and a communication network by which other electronic computing and communication devices communicate data with device .

Device includes one or more processors e.g. any of microprocessors controllers and the like which process various computer executable instructions to control the operation of device and to implement embodiments for managing an immersive environment. Alternatively or in addition device can be implemented with any one or combination of hardware firmware or fixed logic circuitry that is implemented in connection with processing and control circuits that are generally identified at . Although not shown device can include a system bus or data transfer system that couples the various components within the device. A system bus can include any one or combination of different bus structures such as a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus a universal serial bus and or a processor or local bus that utilizes any of a variety of bus architectures.

Device also includes computer readable storage media such as one or more memory devices that enable persistent and non transitory data storage in contrast to mere signal transmission examples of which include random access memory RAM non volatile memory e.g. any one or more of a read only memory ROM flash memory EPROM EEPROM etc. and a disk storage device. A disk storage device may be implemented as any type of magnetic or optical storage device such as a hard disk drive a recordable and or rewritable compact disc CD any type of digital versatile disc DVD and the like. Device can also include a mass storage media device .

Computer readable storage media provides data storage mechanisms to store device data as well as various device applications and any other types of information and or data related to operational aspects of device . For example device operating system can be maintained as a computer application with computer readable storage media and executed on processors . Device applications may include a device manager such as any form of a control application software application signal processing and control module code that is native to a particular device a hardware abstraction layer for a particular device and so on.

Device applications also include any system components or modules to implement techniques for managing an immersive environment. In this example device applications can include video content applications such as when device is implemented as a client device. Alternatively or in addition device applications can include a video content service such as when device is implemented as a media content service. Video content applications and video content service are shown as software modules and or computer applications. Alternatively or in addition video content applications and or video content service can be implemented as hardware software firmware or any combination thereof.

Device also includes an audio and or video rendering system that generates and provides audio data to an audio system and or generates and provides display data to a display system . Audio system and or display system can include any devices that process display and or otherwise render audio display and image data. Display data and audio signals can be communicated from device to an audio device and or to a display device via an RF radio frequency link S video link composite video link component video link DVI digital video interface analog audio connection or other similar communication link. In an embodiment audio system and or display system are implemented as external components to device . Alternatively audio system and or display system are implemented as integrated components of device .

Techniques for providing an immersive environment of which the above described methods are examples may be embodied on one or more of the entities shown in system of and or example device described above which may be further divided combined and so on. Thus system and or device illustrate some of many possible systems or apparatuses capable of employing the described techniques. The entities of system and or device generally represent software firmware hardware whole devices or networks or a combination thereof. In the case of a software implementation for instance the entities e.g. manager of represent program code that performs specified tasks when executed on a processor e.g. processor s of . The program code can be stored in one or more computer readable memory devices such as computer readable storage media or computer readable media . The features and techniques described herein are platform independent meaning that they may be implemented on a variety of commercial computing platforms having a variety of processors.

Although embodiments of techniques and apparatuses for managing an immersive environment have been described in language specific to features and or methods it is to be understood that the subject of the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or methods described. Rather the specific features and methods are disclosed as example implementations for managing an immersive environment.

