---

title: Detecting horizontal attacks
abstract: Horizontal attacks may be detected in an authentication system by comparing entered credentials to a list of common credentials, increasing a score if the entered credential matches a credential on the list of common credentials, and then making a security determination based on the score. The score increase may be weighted based on factors including a recentness of a previous authentication, a similarity of the credential to a correct or common credential, a commonality of the entered credential, and whether or not additional security precautions are being taken. The score may be associated with a credential, an authentication attempt, or may be a system-wide score that, when it reaches a threshold may be indicative of a system-wide attack.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09516004&OS=09516004&RS=09516004
owner: PAYPAL, INC.
number: 09516004
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130626
---
Pursuant to 35 U.S.C. 119 e this application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 815 385 filed on Apr. 24 2013 the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

As people use the internet for more and more reasons scammers and so called black hat hackers increasingly look to the internet as a new frontier of illicit opportunity. People who use the internet to conduct financial transactions such as making purchases and banking can be attacked by the scammers and hackers and can be tricked into unwittingly divulging important personal information such as login information passwords bank account information and credit card numbers. The attackers can use this information for their financial gain which can hurt the financial standing and credit rating of the people whose information is stolen.

One example of a known method used by attackers is called a horizontal attack. The horizontal attack is a type of attack in which an attacker attempts to use common passwords or other credentials to authenticate to a remote server. The attacker may try the same set of common credentials such as a PIN of 1234 or 2580 for a number of different users or may try a set of common credentials against a single user such as a password of 12345678. The theory is that if the attacker tries enough common credentials against enough users there is a good likelihood that the attacker will successful at least some of the time. The attacker can thus intercept or even change data such as personal data and financial data by impersonating the one or more parties to each other compromising the security of internet communications and transactions.

The variety and portability of internet capable device have resulted in not only users being capable of performing internet communications and transactions more frequently but also in the opportunity for attackers to trick users into giving them personal info nation and financial data. The lucrative potential that these attacks present the attackers encourages attackers to try and stay one or more steps ahead of the security. When a countermeasure or other security provision is put into place to stop or otherwise limit the effect of an attack the attackers develop ways to overcome the countermeasure or find additional ways to exploit the operating system browser or other executable software to launch another possibly more effective attack.

In the following description specific details are set forth describing certain embodiments. It will be apparent however to one skilled in the art that the disclosed embodiments may be practiced without some or all of these specific details. The specific embodiments presented are meant to be illustrative but not limiting. One skilled in the art may realize other material that although not specifically described herein is within the scope and spirit of this disclosure.

Consistent with some embodiments there is provided a method. The method includes steps of receiving a credential input by a user during an authentication process and determining if the received credential is correct. When the received credential is not correct the method includes further steps of comparing the received credential to a list of common credentials. Moreover when the received credential matches a common credential on the list of common credentials the method also includes steps of increasing a score associated with the common credential and making a security determination based on the score. Consistent with some embodiments there is also provided a system capable of performing the method.

These and other embodiments will be described in further detail below with respect to the following figures.

Network in one embodiment may be implemented as a single network or a combination of multiple networks. For example in various embodiments network may include the Internet and or one or more intranets landline networks wireless networks and or other appropriate types of communication networks. In another example the network may comprise a wireless telecommunications network e.g. cellular phone network adapted to communicate with other communication networks such as the Internet.

Client computing device in one embodiment may be implemented using any appropriate combination of hardware and or software configured for wired and or wireless communication over network . For example client computing device may be implemented as a wireless telephone e.g. smart phone tablet personal digital assistant PDA notebook computer personal computer a connected set top box STB such as provided by cable or satellite content providers or a video game system console a head mounted display HMD or other wearable computing device including a wearable computing device having an eyeglass projection screen and or various other generally known types of computing devices. Consistent with some embodiments client computing device may include any appropriate combination of hardware and or software having one or more processors and capable of reading instructions stored on a tangible non transitory machine readable medium for execution by the one or more processors. Consistent with some embodiments client computing device includes a machine readable medium such as a memory not shown that includes instructions for execution by one or more processors not shown for causing client computing device to perform specific tasks. For example such instructions may include authentication app for authenticating client computing device to remote server . Consistent with some embodiments authentication app may be a mobile authentication app which may be used to authenticate user to remote server over network . Authentication app may include instructions executable by one or more processors that is configured to display a Graphical User Interface GUI for user to enter credentials for authenticating with remote server or other servers managed by content providers or merchants via network .

Client computing device may include a browser app . Browser app may be a mobile browser app which may be used to provide a user interface to permit a user to browse information available over network . For example browser application may be implemented as a web browser to view information available over network . Browser application may include instructions executable by one or more processors for interfacing and communicating with remote server or other servers managed by content providers or merchants via network . For example user may be able to access websites to find and purchase items as well as access user account information or web content. Client computing device may also include other applications as may be desired in one or more embodiments to provide additional features available to user including accessing a user account with remote server . For example applications may include interfaces and communication protocols that allow the user to receive and transmit information through network and to remote server and other online sites. Applications may also include security applications for implementing client side security features programmatic client applications for interfacing with appropriate application programming interfaces APIs over network or various other types of generally known programs and or applications. Applications may include mobile apps downloaded and resident on client computing device that enables user to access content through the apps.

Remote server according to some embodiments may be maintained by an online payment provider which may provide processing for online financial and information transactions on behalf of user . Remote server may include at least authentication application which may be adapted to interact with authentication app of client computing device over network to authenticate client computing device to remote server . According to some embodiments authentication app sends information over network to client computing device for use by authentication app for authenticating user to remote server . Such information may include an authentication attempt threshold corresponding to a maximum number of authentication attempts that user is permitted before a security action is performed. Consistent with some embodiments authentication app may determine an authentication attempt threshold based in part on an authentication attempt history of user .

Remote server may also include an application for detecting horizontal attacks . Horizontal attack detecting app may include instructions for detecting a horizontal attack being made on remote server which may include attacks on individual accounts stored on remote server and or multiple accounts or server wide attacks. The instructions may include instructions for determining when user attempts to authenticate to remote server using authentication app whether user has supplied a correct credential. Credential as used herein may refer to any identifier that may be used to authenticate user such as a user name a password a personal identification number PIN a biometric identifier etc. If the received credential is not correct horizontal attack detection app may compare the received credential to a list of common credentials . If the received credential matches a common credential on list horizontal attack detection app may increase a score associated with the common credential and then make a security determination based on the score. In some embodiments list may be generated based on a survey of credentials stored in database or it may be received from a third party. In some embodiments horizontal detection app may instead be a module. Module as used herein may refer to a software module that performs a function when executed by a processor. In other embodiments a module may refer to an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC or other circuit having memory at least one processor for executing instructions to perform a function.

Database may store information for authentication application and or horizontal attack detection app to use during authentication. Database may also store information about user such as account information personal information and an authentication attempt history of user .

Consistent with some embodiments computing system includes a system bus for interconnecting various components within computing system and communication information between the various components. Such components include a processing component which may be one or more processors micro controllers or digital signal processors DSP graphics processing unit GPU a system memory component which may correspond to random access memory RAM an internal memory component which may correspond to read only memory ROM and an external or static memory which may correspond to optical magnetic or solid state memories. Consistent with some embodiments computing system further includes a display component for displaying information to a user of computing system . Display component may be a liquid crystal display LCD screen an organic light emitting diode OLED screen including active matrix AMOLED screens an LED screen a plasma display or a cathode ray tube CRT display. Computing system may also include an input component allowing for a user of computing system to input information to computing system . Such information could include payment information such as an amount required to complete a transaction account information authentication information identification information or a credential. An input component may include for example a keyboard or key pad whether physical or virtual. Computing system may further include a navigation control component configured to allow a user to navigate along display component . Consistent with some embodiments navigation control component may be a mouse a trackball or other such device. Moreover if device includes a touch screen display component input component and navigation control may be a single integrated component such as a capacitive sensor based touch screen.

Computing system may perform specific operations by processing component executing one or more sequences of instructions contained in system memory component internal memory component and or external or static memory . In other embodiments hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement the present disclosure. Logic may be encoded in a computer readable medium which may refer to any medium that participates in providing instructions to processing component for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. The medium may correspond to any of system memory internal memory and or external or static memory . Consistent with some embodiments the computer readable medium is tangible and non transitory. In various implementations non volatile media include optical or magnetic disks volatile media includes dynamic memory and transmission media includes coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including wires that comprise system bus . According to some embodiments transmission media may take the form of acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio wave and infrared data communications. Some common forms of computer readable media include for example floppy disk flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium CD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes RAM PROM EPROM FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer is adapted to read.

In various embodiments of the present disclosure execution of instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure may be performed by computing system . In various other embodiments of the present disclosure a plurality of computing systems coupled by a communication link to network e.g. such as a LAN WLAN PTSN and or various other wired or wireless networks including telecommunications mobile and cellular phone networks may perform instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure in coordination with one another. Computing system may transmit and receive messages data and one or more data packets information and instructions including one or more programs i.e. application code through communication link and network interface component . Communication link may be wireless through a wireless data protocol such as Wi Fi 3G 4G HSDPA LTE RF NFC or through a wired connection. Network interface component may include an antenna either separate or integrated to enable transmission and reception via communication link . Received program code may be executed by processing component as received and or stored in memory or .

Computing system may also include sensor components . Sensor components may include any sensory device that captures information related to the surroundings of client computing device . Sensor components may include camera and imaging components accelerometers global positioning system GPS devices motion capture devices and other devices that are capable of providing information about client computing device user or their surroundings. Sensor components may also include sensors that may be used in an authentication process such as biometric sensors.

In some embodiments remote server may be capable of receiving an authentication request and detecting horizontal attacks based in part on the authentication process. Remote server may receive and process the authentication request using authentication app and may detect horizontal attacks using horizontal attack detection app . In operation remote server may receive a credential input by user during an authentication process. User may input the credential on client device in response to a prompt generated by authentication app . Authentication app may then transmit the input credential to remote server where network interface component receives the credential. The credential may be stored in plaintext or it may be encrypted. Authentication app may then determine if the received credential is correct.

When the received credential is determined to not be correct horizontal detection application may compare the received credential to a list of common credentials . When the received credential matches a common credential on list of common credentials horizontal detection application may increase a score associated with the common credential and make a security determination based on the score. For example a correct credential associated with user is 2g329d but the remote server receives dog. If dog is on list a score associated with the credential may be increased as there may be a good likelihood that an attacker is entering common credentials in a horizontal attack in order to gain access to an account.

In some embodiments horizontal attack detection application may generate list of common credentials based on user data such as user data stored in database . However in some embodiments remote server may obtain list of common credentials from a third party such as a security firm or clearinghouse.

In some embodiments authentication app may match a previous credential associated with user if the received credential is determined to be incorrect. If the incorrect credential matches a correct previous credential associated with user horizontal attack detection application may not increase the score associated with the credential or instead may weight the score less than it may weight the score otherwise as will be discussed in more detail later.

In some embodiments increasing a score associated with the common credential may be increased a score associated with a user authentication attempt may be increased or a global score associated with remote server may be increased. In some embodiments when increasing the score associated with the common credential horizontal attack detection app may give a larger weight to the score increase based on the commonality of the credential. For example if the received credential matches the most common credential on list horizontal attack detection app may weight the score increase as 1 or greater than 1. Whereas if the received credential matches a credential on list but is among the less common credentials on list horizontal attack detection app may weight the score increase less than 1.

In some embodiments authentication app may be capable of determining a similarity value associated with the received credential when determining if the received credential is correct. The similarity value may refer to how similar the received credential is to at least one of a common credential and a previous credential associated with the user. For example if the correct credential is supposed to be cat and user enters kat these are similar and would be given an appropriate similarity value based on the similarity. The similarity value may also be a type of weighting that is used by horizontal attack detection app when increasing a score. If cat is on list the similarity of kat to cat is significant enough that even though it is not an exact match horizontal attack detection app may still provide a weighted score increase based on the similarity. However the weighted increase may be less than it would be for an exact match.

In some embodiments horizontal attack detection app may also increase a global score associated with remote server . This global score may be associated with an attack being made on remote server as a whole and when the global score reaches a threshold horizontal attack detection app may determine that remote server is under a horizontal attack and make take an action such as shut down the system or provide an increased weighted increase to all score increases.

Weighted score increases have been discussed. In some embodiments a weighted factor associated with the score increase may be based on a recentness of a successful authentication attempt by user such that the weighted factor may be zero if the recentness of a successful authentication attempt by the user is more than a threshold. Moreover as discussed previously the weighted factor may be greater if a determination is made that remote server is under attack. In some embodiments horizontal attack detection app may store a time of each score increase wherein a lower weight factor may be used if the time of the score increase is greater than a threshold time. This way if user has not successfully authenticated recently user may be more likely to make a mistake when entering a credential and as such the score increase associated with the incorrect entry may be given a lower weight than if user routinely and or recently successfully authenticates and would be less likely to forgot their credential. Additional detail of tempering user authentication based on a recentness of successful authentication may be found in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 800 733 filed on Mar. 13 2013 the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

However if the credential is not correct processing component of remote server executing instructions to run horizontal attack detection app may determine if the received credential matches a common credential on list of common credentials . In some embodiments list of common credentials may be generated by remote server using account information stored in database . In other embodiments list of common credentials may be generated by a third party and sent to remote server . If the received credential does not match a credential on list of common credentials method may terminate and user may be asked to attempt authenticating again.

If the received credential matches a credential on list of common credentials a score may be increased . In some embodiments the score may be a weighted score wherein the weighting is determined by such factors as a recentness of a successful authentication a recentness of a failed authentication a similarity of the received credential to a correct credential or a credential on list and whether any other security measures are currently being enacted on remote server . Moreover the score may be a score associated with the common credential a score associated with the particular authentication attempt or a score associated with remote server and all authentication processes handled by remote server . Based on the score increase processing component executing instructions to run horizontal attack detection app may make a security determination . The security determination may be to increase the weight of all score increases for all authentication attempts. The security determination may also include an account freeze or lockout.

Software in accordance with the present disclosure such as program code and or data may be stored on one or more machine readable mediums including non transitory machine readable medium. It is also contemplated that software identified herein may be implemented using one or more general purpose or specific purpose computers and or computer systems networked and or otherwise. Where applicable the ordering of various steps described herein may be changed combined into composite steps and or separated into sub steps to provide features described herein.

Consequently embodiments as described herein may provide a system and method for detecting horizontal attacks that does not unfairly punish users who may make mistakes when attempting to authenticate but still provides flexibility for allowing significant security measures to be taken when an attack is actually occurring. Consequently embodiments provided herein may provide additional security to users who frequently authenticate while giving a few more attempts to user who do not frequently authenticate without significantly decreasing security. The examples provided above are exemplary only and are not intended to be limiting. One skilled in the art may readily devise other systems consistent with the disclosed embodiments which are intended to be within the scope of this disclosure. As such the application is limited only by the following claims.

