---

title: Device and method for displaying and interacting with display objects
abstract: A method and a device are disclosed, whereby notifications displayed on a display can be interacted with. In particular, a notification is displayed on a display, the notification initially being in an initial notification state. User input is detected and it is determined if the user input is being made in a direction towards the notification. If the user input is being made in a direction towards the notification, the notification is placed into a subsequent notification state.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09338116&OS=09338116&RS=09338116
owner: BlackBerry Limited
number: 09338116
owner_city: Waterloo
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20130628
---
The present disclosure relates to a device and a method for displaying and interacting with display objects such as notifications displayed on a display.

Electronic devices are able to display objects e.g. notifications on their displays. For example when an incoming message such as an email Short Message Service SMS message or other electronic message is received or detected by an electronic device the notification may appear in a particular form providing particular information about the message. The notification may be of a particular size and it may appear in one part or area of the device s display and may be displayed only for a predefined period of time so that the notification disappears or fades from the display after the predefined period of time has expired.

This disclosure below is a description of one or more exemplary embodiments which are not intended to be limiting on the scope of the appended claims.

In a first aspect there is provided a method for interacting with a notification displayed on a display comprising displaying a notification on a display the notification initially being in an initial notification state detecting user input and determining if the user input is being made in a direction towards the notification and if the user input is being made in a direction towards the notification placing the notification into a subsequent notification state. The notification may be a display object in which case the display object may equate to the notification consist entirely of the notification or comprise or include the notification.

The initial notification state may be an operating state e.g. of a processor implementing the steps of the method or an operating state of the display in which user input is detectable and it is determined if the user input is being made in a direction towards the notification and if the user input is being made in a direction towards the notification the notification is then placed into a subsequent notification state by virtue of it being in the initial notification state. In general the notification states mentioned below may be operating states of a processor implementing the steps of the method and or operating states of the display.

The method may further comprise detecting an event wherein the step of displaying the notification takes place in response to detection of the event.

The event may be one or more of receipt of an electronic communication such as an electronic message or call notification of an alarm and upcoming event notification.

The initial notification state may be a first notification state such that the notification is displayed on the display only for a first time period from when it was initially displayed.

In the first notification state the notification may be displayed on the display for only the first time period and on expiry of the first time period the notification may disappear from the display entirely or appear in reduced form on the display. The first time period may be a maximum time period for which the notification is displayed before it is removed from the display completely.

The subsequent notification state may be a second notification state such that the notification is displayed on the display for a second time period from when the notification was placed in the second notification state. The subsequent notification state may be an operating state of a processor implementing the method or of the display whereby by virtue of the processor or display being in such an operating state cause the notification to be displayed on the display for a second time period from when the notification was placed in the second notification state.

In the second notification state the notification may be displayed on the display for only the second time period and on expiry of the second time period the notification may disappear from the display entirely or appear in reduced form on the display. The second time period may be a maximum time period for which the notification is displayed before it is removed from the display completely.

The second time period may be infinite. The first time period may be equal to the second time period or may be less or more than the first time period.

The first notification state may be such that the notification is removed from the display by expiry of the first time period.

Optionally when the notification is in the first notification state it may be displayed in such a way that it fades over time and wherein when the notification enters into the subsequent notification state the notification becomes unfaded. In the subsequent notification state the notification may become less faded if user input continues in a direction towards the notification.

The user input may be received via an input interface which provides a current input position on the display. The step of determining if the user input is being made in a direction towards the notification may comprise determining the current input position on the display and comparing it with a previously received current input position.

The method may further comprise determining if the current input position is within a first predefined loci of input positions and if so placing the notification in the subsequent notification state which may be a third notification state wherein the third notification state is such that the notification is displayed in the display with additional display elements to those displayed within the notification when the notification is in its initial notification state. The third notification state may be the subsequent notification state and for example be a state which immediately follows the initial notification state.

The notification may be displayed in an expanded form in the display when in its third notification state with respect to the display of the notification when in its first notification state. The first predefined loci of input positions may be defined by input positions which are all within a predefined distance from the notification.

The first predefined loci of input positions may not include input positions at locations in the display where the notification is being displayed. The first predefined loci of input positions may be defined by input positions which overlap with locations in the display where the notification is being displayed.

The notification may be placed only its third notification state when additionally an input signal from the input interface is detected.

Optionally if the current input position is within a second predefined loci of input positions then the method may comprise placing the notification in a fourth notification state wherein the fourth notification state is such that the notification is displayed in the display with additional display elements to those displayed within the notification when the notification is in its third notification state. Optionally the fourth notification state may be the subsequent notification state and for example be a state which immediately follows the initial notification state.

The second predefined loci of input positions may be defined by input positions which overlap with locations in the display where the notification is being displayed.

The notification may be placed only its fourth notification state when additionally an input signal from the input interface is detected.

The additional display elements may comprise one or more of a message reply entry field a message preview a message body a message sent or received time and or date a message reply control element a message forward control element a message delete control element some or all preceding messages in a conversation information or indications of some or all preceding messages in a conversation or from a given sender information or an indications of unread messages such as all unread messages information or an indications of new messages such as all new messages e.g. new messages received since the notification was previously displayed according to the fourth notification state a calendar entry preview a calendar entry body a calendar entry accept control element a calendar entry reject control element and a calendar entry tentative control element a calendar entry location field and a calendar entry date and or time.

The notification may be displayed in its initial notification state as a notification comprising one or more of a message sender name a message sender image a message subject a message preview information or indications of some or all preceding messages in a conversation or from a given sender information or an indications of unread messages such as all unread messages information or an indications of new messages such as all new messages e.g. new messages received since the notification was previously display a calendar entry sender a calendar entry sender image a calendar entry preview a calendar entry subject a calendar entry date and or time and a calendar entry location field.

The subsequent notification state may be a state in which the size of the notification is expanded e.g. increased in area as the user input is made in a direction towards the notification. In the expanded state the additional information mentioned above may be displayed.

The size e.g. area of the notification may be decreased as user input is made in a direction away from the notification following a preceding expansion in the size of the notification.

The amount of decrease in size e.g. area of the notification may correspond to the amount or magnitude of user input which is in a direction away from the notification.

The amount of expansion in size e.g. area of the notification may correspond to the amount or magnitude of user input which is in a direction towards the notification.

In a second aspect an electronic device comprises processing circuitry and a display wherein the processing circuitry is configured to perform the method mentioned above.

In a third aspect an electronic device comprising a display configured to display a notification the notification initially being in an initial notification state an input interface configured to detect user input and processing circuitry configured to determine if the user input is being made in a direction towards the notification and if the user input is being made in a direction towards the notification place the notification into a subsequent notification state.

The initial notification state may be an operating state e.g. of the processing circuitry or of the display in which user input is detectable and in which it can be determined if the user input is being made in a direction towards the notification and if the user input is being made in a direction towards the notification the notification is then placed into the subsequent notification state by virtue of it being in the initial notification state. In general the notification states mentioned below may be operating states of the processing circuitry implementing the steps of the method and or operating states of the display.

The processing circuitry may be connected to and configured to control the display to display the notification in accordance with the embodiments disclosed herein.

The processing circuitry may be configured to detect an event wherein displaying the notification may take place in response to detection of the event.

The event may be one or more of receipt of an electronic communication such as an electronic message or call notification of an alarm and upcoming event notification.

The initial notification state may be a first notification state such that the notification is displayed on the display only for a first time period from when it was initially displayed. In the first notification state the notification may be displayed on the display for only the first time period and on expiry of the first time period the notification may disappear from the display entirely or appear in reduced form on the display. The first time period may be a maximum time period for which the notification is displayed before it is removed from the display completely.

The subsequent notification state may be a second notification state such that the notification is displayed on the display for a second time period from when the notification was placed in the second notification state. In the second notification state the notification may be displayed on the display for only the second time period and on expiry of the second time period the notification may disappear from the display entirely or appear in reduced form on the display. The second time period may be a maximum time period for which the notification is displayed before it is removed from the display completely.

The second time period may be infinite. The first time period may be equal to the second time period.

The first notification state may be such that the notification is removed from the display by expiry of the first time period.

Optionally when the notification is in the first notification state it is displayed in such a way that it fades over time and wherein when the notification enters into the subsequent notification state the notification becomes unfaded. Optionally in the subsequent notification state the notification may become less faded if user input continues in a direction towards the notification. Faded may mean one or more of opaqueness of the notification increases less information is displayed within the notification and colour of the notification changes so that the notification is less dominant on the display with respect to other objects being displayed.

The user input may be received via an input interface which provides a current input position on the display.

The step of determining if the user input is being made in a direction towards the notification may comprise determining the current input position on the display and comparing it with a previously received current input position. The step of determining may comprise determining if there is any component of movement in a direction towards the notification having a positive magnitude. The direction towards the notification may mean a direction in a straight line direction from the current input position e.g. pointer position to any point on the border of the notification or a centre point of the notification or other predefined point within or on the notification. A positive magnitude of such a component may indicate movement towards the notification. A negative magnitude of such a component may indicate movement away from the notification.

The processing circuitry may be configured to determine if the current input position is within a first predefined loci of input positions and if so place the notification in the subsequent notification state which is a third notification state wherein the third notification state is such that the notification is displayed in the display with additional display elements to those displayed within the notification when the notification is in its initial notification state.

The notification may be displayed in an expanded form in the display when in its third notification state with respect to the display of the notification when in its first notification state.

The first predefined loci of input positions may be defined by input positions which are all within a predefined distance from the notification. The predefined distance may mean a distance in a straight line direction from the current input position e.g. pointer position to any point on the border of the notification or a centre point of the notification or other predefined point within or on the notification.

The first predefined loci of input positions may not include input positions at locations in the display where the notification is being displayed. The first predefined loci of input positions may be defined by input positions which overlap with locations in the display where the notification is being displayed. The notification may be placed only its third notification state when additionally an input signal from the input interface is detected.

The processing circuitry may be configured to determine if the current input position is within a second predefined loci of input positions and if so place the notification in a fourth notification state wherein the fourth notification state is such that the notification is displayed in the display with additional display elements to those displayed within the notification when the notification is in its third notification state.

The second predefined loci of input positions may be defined by input positions which overlap with locations in the display where the notification is being displayed. The notification may be placed only its fourth notification state when additionally an input signal from the input interface is detected by the processing circuitry. The input signal may be generated in response to one or more button presses on a input device e.g. mouse track pad etc. or be in response to a predefined gesture on a touch interface such as one or more taps or swipe gestures.

The additional display elements may comprise one or more of a message reply entry field a message preview a message body a message sent or received time and or date a message reply control element a message forward control element a message delete control element information or indications of some or all preceding messages in a conversation or from a given sender information or an indications of unread messages such as all unread messages information or an indications of new messages such as all new messages a calendar entry preview a calendar entry body a calendar entry accept control element a calendar entry reject control element and a calendar entry tentative control element a calendar entry location field and a calendar entry date and or time.

The notification may be displayed in its initial notification state as a notification comprising one or more of a message sender name a message sender image a message subject information or indications of some or all preceding messages in a conversation or from a given sender information or an indications of unread messages such as all unread messages information or an indications of new messages such as all new messages a message preview a calendar entry sender a calendar entry sender image a calendar entry preview a calendar entry subject a calendar entry date and or time and a calendar entry location field.

A conversation may be defined as a chain of all messages relating to a subject of the messages group of recipients recipient and or sender and or other common identifying characteristic or data of a plurality of messages which form the conversation.

The subsequent notification state may be a state in which the size of the notification may be expanded e.g. increased in area as the user input is made in a direction towards the notification. The size e.g. area of the notification may be decreased as user input is made in a direction away from the notification following a preceding expansion in the size of the notification. The amount of decrease in size e.g. area of the notification may correspond to the amount or magnitude of user input which is away from the notification. The amount of expansion or increase in size of the notification may correspond to the amount or magnitude of user input which is in a direction towards the notification.

In a fourth aspect there may be a computer readable medium comprising computer executable instructions which when executed by processing circuitry cause the processing circuitry to perform the above method.

In a fifth aspect there is provided a computer readable medium comprising computer executable instructions which when executed by processing circuitry cause the processing circuitry to display a notification on a display the notification initially being in an initial notification state detect user input and determine if the user input is being made in a direction towards the notification and if the user input is being made in a direction towards the notification place the notification into a subsequent notification state.

The electronic device may be a computer device such as a personal computer laptop tablet computer and the second electronic device may be a wireless communication device such as handheld communication device for example a mobile phone e.g. smartphone or tablet device.

Reference is made to which illustrates an electronic device such as a first and or second electronic device which is usable in accordance with the disclosure below.

The electronic device may be a computer device e.g. personal computer PC or laptop a wireless communication device such as handheld communication device for example a mobile phone e.g. smartphone or tablet device.

An electronic device such as the electronic device of is configured to generate a user controllable interface on a display such as a built in display and or on a remote external display device. In the context of this disclosure the term remote means a display screen which is not built in to the electronic device with which the electronic device communicates via a physical wired connection or via a wireless connection. The display is shown as display built in to the electronic device in in which the electronic device is a wireless communication device and is also shown as external display device in in which the display is separate to the electronic device .

It will be appreciated that in certain embodiments some of the features systems or subsystems of the electronic device discussed below with reference to may be omitted from electronic devices which are intended to perform solely operations in relation to the generation and output of display data on the display and the modification of media content output. However a full disclosure of a number of features which may be present in the electronic device is given below.

In one embodiment the electronic device is a computer such as a personal computer PC or laptop with electronic communication capabilities which enable it to communicate with other electronic devices e.g. similar or identical to electronic device networks and or servers. In this regard communication may be direct between devices or may take place over a network such as the Internet. In both cases communication may take place via as a short range radio frequency link e.g. Bluetooth or via a data network which may be wired e.g. wired Ethernet or may be wireless e.g. WiFi using IEEE 802.11 radio standards .

In another embodiment the electronic device is a communication device such as a wireless communication device and may be a mobile or handheld device such as a mobile or handheld communication device for example having data and or voice communication capabilities. It may also have the capability to communicate with other electronic devices similar or identical to electronic device . In this regard communication may be direct between the devices or may take place over a data network such as the Internet. In both cases communication may take place via as a short range radio frequency link e.g. Bluetooth or via a data network which may be wired e.g. wired Ethernet or may be wireless e.g. WiFi using IEEE 802.11 radio standards .

Depending on the functionality provided by the electronic device the electronic device may be a multiple mode communication device configured for both data and voice communication a mobile telephone such as a smartphone a wearable computer such as a watch a tablet computer a personal digital assistant PDA or a computer system such as a notebook laptop or desktop system. It will be appreciated that the electronic device may take other forms including any one of the forms described herein. In addition the electronic device may take other forms apart from those specifically listed above. The electronic device may also be referred to as a mobile handheld or portable communications device a communication device a mobile device and in some cases as a device. In the context of this disclosure the term mobile may mean that the device is of a size or weight which makes it readily portable by a single individual e.g. of a weight less than 5 4 3 2 1 0.5 0.4 0.3 0.2 or 0.1 kilograms or of a volume less than 15 000 10 000 5 000 4 000 3 000 2 000 1 000 500 400 300 200 100 90 80 70 60 50 40 30 20 10 or 5 cubic centimeters. As such the device may be portable in a bag or clothing pocket.

The electronic device includes processing circuitry being or including a processor such as a microprocessor which can control the operation of the electronic device . In certain electronic devices more than one processor is provided forming the processing circuitry with each processor in communication with each other and configured to perform operations in parallel so that they together control the overall operation of the electronic device. For the purposes of the present disclosure reference is made to processor however this can also be intended as a reference to processing circuitry for example in which more than one processor performs the disclosed function or functions.

The processor interacts with device subsystems such as a communication subsystem which may be wired or wireless but which is shown in in exemplary form as a wireless communication subsystem for exchanging radio frequency signals via a wireless network to perform communication functions. The processor is communicably coupled with additional device subsystems including one or more output interfaces such as one or more of a display built in or remote a speaker electromagnetic EM radiation source one or more input interfaces such as one or more of a camera microphone keyboard not shown control buttons not shown a navigational input device not shown such as a pointer device e.g. mouse a touch sensitive overlay not shown associated with a touchscreen an orientation subsystem memory such as flash memory random access memory RAM read only memory ROM etc. auxiliary input output I O subsystems a data port which may be a serial data port such as a Universal Serial Bus USB data port an external video output port a near field communications NFC subsystem a short range communication subsystem a clock subsystem a battery interface and other device subsystems generally designated as . Some of the subsystems shown in perform communication related functions whereas other subsystems may provide resident or on device functions.

The electronic device stores data in an erasable persistent memory which in one embodiment is the flash memory . In various embodiments the data includes service data including information used by the electronic device to establish and maintain communication with the wireless network . The data may also include user application data such as electronic messages e.g. email SMS etc. address book and contact information calendar and schedule information notepad documents presentation documents and information word processor documents and information spreadsheet documents and information desktop publishing documents and information database files and information image files video files audio files internet web pages and other commonly stored user information stored on the electronic device by its user and other data. The data may also include program application data such as functions controls and interfaces from an application such as a message application e.g. email SMS etc. an address book application a calendar application a notepad application a presentation application a word processor application a spread sheet application a desktop publishing application a database application a media application such as a picture viewer a video player or an audio player and a web browser. The data stored in the persistent memory e.g. flash memory of the electronic device may be organized at least partially into one or more databases or data stores. The databases or data stores may contain data items of the same data type or associated with the same application. For example messages such as email or SMS messages contact records and task items may be stored in individual databases within the device memory.

The electronic device includes a clock subsystem or module comprising a system clock configured to measure system time. In one embodiment the system clock comprises its own alternate power source. The system clock provides an indicator of a current time value the system time represented as a year month day hour minute second milliseconds value. In other embodiments the clock subsystem additionally or alternatively provides an indicator of the current time value represented as a count of the number of ticks of known duration since a particular epoch.

The clock subsystem the communication subsystem the NFC subsystem the short range wireless communications subsystem and the battery interface together may form a status report subsystem which is configured to provide an indicator of the operating status of the device.

The display receives display data generated by the processor such that the display displays certain application data stored as a segment of the data from the memory any of the flash memory random access memory RAM read only memory ROM in a predetermined way on display screen not shown of the display according to the processing performed by the processor .

In certain embodiments the external video output port is integrated with the data port . The external video output port may be configured to connect the electronic device via a wired connection e.g. video graphics array VGA digital visual interface DVI or high definition multimedia interface HDMI to an external or remote display device which is separate and remote from the electronic device and its display . The processor outputs external display data generated by the processor via the external video output port such that the external display device can display application data from the memory module in a predetermined way on an external display screen of the external display device . The processor may also communicate the external display data to the external display device in a similar fashion over a wireless communications path. At any given time the display data and the external display data generated by the processor may be identical or similar for a predetermined period of time but may also differ for a predetermined period of time with the processor controlling whether the display data and the external display data are identical or differ based on input from one or more of the input interfaces . In this context the word identical means that both sets of data comprise similar content so as to generate an identical or substantially similar display at substantially the same time on both the external display device and the display . In this context the word differ means that the external display data and display data are not identical this is to say that these data may but not necessarily include identical elements of data for example representative of the same application data but the external display data and display data are not wholly identical. Hence the display on both the external display device and the display are not wholly identical although similar or identical individual items of content based on the application data may be displayed on both the external display device and the display . Either one of the display or external display device may be optional. References made herein to data displayed by the display are intended to include references to data displayed on the display of the external display device and vice a versa whether or not one or other of the display or external display device are present.

The electronic device includes an input interface for example a pointing device such as a mouse trackpad trackball etc. and or touch sensitive interface such as an interface overlaid on display in communication with the processor . The pointing device if present may be built in to electronic device e.g. as a trackpad or trackball or may be connected to the device including its processor via one or more of the data port the communication subsystem the auxiliary input output I O subsystems and the short range wireless communications subsystem . The touch sensitive interface if present may be constructed using a touch sensitive input surface which is connected to processor an electronic controller and which overlays the display . The touch sensitive input surface and the electronic controller provide a touch sensitive input interface and the processor interacts with the touch sensitive overlay via the electronic controller. The input interface may control the position of a pointer displayed on the display . The input interface generally provides positional information of current or intended user input on the display e.g. the position of a touch input on the touch sensitive surface if present or the position of the pointer if present on the display .

The processor may be in communication with the memory and input interface to detect user input via the input interface . The processor can then generate or update display data comprising a display object e.g. a pointer or notification for display by the display device in accordance with the user input. The processor then outputs the display data for display on the display device . In an embodiment the user input may comprise one or more gestures made across the touchscreen interface with input interface .

If the input interface comprises the pointing device mentioned above the input detected by the pointing device may comprise any suitable user based input. For example the input may comprise one or more inputs including for example a continuous movement of the pointing device to cause user input e.g. of a pointer displayed on the display to be in one or more particular directions across the display the pressing of one or more buttons of the pointing device a scrolling command input by the pointing device and any other user input received with the pointing device. It will be appreciated that the input may comprise a sequence of input elements or stages performed with the pointing device within a specified or predetermined time frame for example a double press of a button on the pointing device in which each press comprises an element or a sub input a phase or a stage of the input and the button presses are performed within a time frame that enables the processor to detect the presses as elements of a single input or a number of discrete phases of continuous movement of the pointing device in different directions across the display in which each movement comprises an element or a sub input a phase or a stage of the user input and the movement elements are performed within a time frame that enables the processor to detect movements as a single input indicative of movement in a general direction across the display.

If the input interface comprises the touch sensitive surface mentioned above the input detected by the touch sensitive surface interface may comprise any suitable user touch based input. For example the input may comprise one or more gestures as an input such as a tap a multi tap a long press a swipe or scroll or slide a pan a flick a multi swipe a multi finger tap a multi finger scroll or swipe a pinch a two hand pinch a spread a two hand spread a rotation a two hand rotation a slide and rotation a multi direction slide a multi finger slide and rotation a multi finger slide etc. It will be appreciated that the gesture input may comprise a sequence of input elements or stages performed within a specified or predetermined time frame for example a three tap gesture in which each tap comprises an element or a sub input a phase or a stage of the input and the three taps are performed within a time frame that enables the processor to detect the taps as elements of a single input. Additionally or alternatively an input may comprise removing a point of contact e.g. a finger or stylus from the touchscreen interface.

Many examples described herein refer to a gesture detected by the touch sensitive interface but other methods of gesture detection may be used. For example a gesture may be a generalized trajectory description characterized as a sequence of 3D points in time and as such many different sensors of the electronic device may be utilized to detect such a gesture. The gesture may be performed by moving a portable electronic device or moving one or more body parts such as fingers or thumbs as a 3D spatial gesture. For example sensors such as an accelerometer gyroscope or proximity sensors or time of flight cameras may detect such gestures. Gesture recognition and detection techniques of this type are known. An accelerometer or gyroscope may be utilized to detect 3D spatial gestures. A sequence of acceleration values may be detected in the different spatial dimensions as a function of time and constitute trajectory information that can be recognized as a gesture. For example a quick flick and a tilt of the portable electronic device are examples of detectable gestures. A 3D spatial gesture includes a continuous movement a sequence of movements and a series of continuous movements or sequences of movements. Proximity sensors optical sensors and or cameras may be utilized to detect 3D spatial gestures comprising motion of objects spaced from the device.

A gesture input may be different to input of a command by manipulation of a control component presented on the screen because a gesture input can be performed at any location within the display screen or a large area of the display screen in contrast to a single contact point for a user finger or input stylus on a corresponding control element. In order to input a command using a control component the user must contact the screen at a specific location corresponding to that component. For example in order to change an output volume using a volume control the user must select the volume control by touching the location at which the volume control is displayed and moving the displayed control element by a desired amount through movement of the user s finger across the screen. Such user input must therefore be precisely controlled in order to use control elements to input commands. Gesture based inputs on the other hand do not require the same precise control as they are not tied to a specific location on the screen. Instead a user wishing to e.g. scroll through a list of media content can do so by performing a swipe gesture at any location within a media player display.

In at least some embodiments the touch sensitive surface has a touch sensitive surface which is larger than the display . For example in at least some embodiments the touch sensitive overlay may extend overtop of a frame not shown which surrounds the display . In such embodiments the frame not shown may be referred to as an active frame since it is capable of acting as part of the input interface . In at least some embodiments the touch sensitive overlay may extend to the sides of the electronic device .

As noted above in some embodiments the electronic device includes a communication subsystem which allows the electronic device to communicate over a wireless network . The communication subsystem includes a receiver a transmitter and associated components such as one or more antenna elements and local oscillators LOs and a processing module such as a digital signal processor DSP which is in communication with the processor . The antenna elements and may be embedded or internal to the electronic device and a single antenna may be shared by both receiver and transmitter. The particular design of the communication subsystem depends on the wireless network in which electronic device is intended to operate.

In at least some embodiments the electronic device communicates with any one of a plurality of fixed transceiver base stations of the wireless network within its geographic coverage area. The electronic device may send and receive communication signals over the wireless network after the required network registration or activation procedures have been completed. Signals received by the antenna through the wireless network are input to the receiver which may perform such common receiver functions as signal amplification frequency down conversion filtering channel selection etc. as well as analog to digital ND conversion. ND conversion of a received signal allows more complex communication functions such as demodulation and decoding to be performed in the DSP . In a similar manner signals to be transmitted are processed including modulation and encoding for example by the DSP . These DSP processed signals are input to the transmitter for digital to analog D A conversion frequency up conversion filtering amplification and transmission to the wireless network via the antenna . The DSP not only processes communication signals but may also provide for receiver and transmitter control. For example the gains applied to communication signals in the receiver and the transmitter may be adaptively controlled through automatic gain control algorithms implemented in the DSP .

In some embodiments the auxiliary input output I O subsystems may include an external communication link or interface for example an Ethernet connection. The electronic device may include other wireless communication interfaces for communicating with other types of wireless networks for example a wireless network such as an orthogonal frequency division multiplexed OFDM network. The auxiliary I O subsystems may include a vibrator for providing vibratory notifications in response to various events on the electronic device such as receipt of an electronic communication or incoming phone call or for other purposes such as haptic feedback touch feedback .

In some embodiments the electronic device also includes a removable memory module typically including flash memory such as a removable memory card and a memory interface . Network access may be associated with a subscriber or user of the electronic device via the memory module which may be a Subscriber Identity Module SIM card for use in a GSM network or other type of memory card for use in the relevant wireless network type. The memory module is inserted in or connected to the memory card interface of the electronic device in order to operate in conjunction with the wireless network .

The data port may be used for providing direct communication of data with and between the device including for example its processor and another electronic device which may be similar or identical to electronic device .

In at least some embodiments the electronic device may also include a device orientation subsystem including at least one orientation sensor which is connected to the processor and which is controlled by one or a combination of a monitoring circuit and operating software. The orientation sensor detects the orientation of the device or information from which the orientation of the device can be determined such as acceleration. In some embodiments the orientation sensor is an accelerometer such as a three axis accelerometer. An accelerometer is a sensor which converts acceleration from motion e.g. movement of the device or a portion thereof due to the strike force and gravity which are detected by a sensing element into an electrical signal producing a corresponding change in output . Accelerometers may be available in one two or three axis configurations. Higher order axis configurations are also possible. Accelerometers may produce digital or analog output signals depending on the type of accelerometer. The orientation sensor may generate orientation data which specifies the orientation of the electronic device . The orientation data in at least some embodiments specifies the orientation of the device relative to the gravitational field of the earth. Additionally or alternatively the orientation sensor may generate orientation data which specifies the orientation of the device relative to known locations or fixtures in a communication network. In some embodiments the orientation subsystem includes other orientation sensors instead of or in addition to accelerometers. For example in various embodiments the orientation subsystem may include a gravity sensor a gyroscope a tilt sensor an electronic compass or other suitable sensor or combinations thereof. In some embodiments the device orientation subsystem may include two or more orientation sensors such as an accelerometer and an electronic compass. The orientation subsystem may provide input to the input interface such that for example three dimensional gestures performed with the electronic device as a whole may be detected and provide user input to the processor .

The electronic device in at least some embodiments may include a Near Field Communication NFC subsystem . The NFC subsystem is configured to communicate with other electronic devices or tags using an NFC communications protocol. NFC is a set of short range wireless technologies which typically require a distance of 4 cm or less for communications. The NFC subsystem may include an NFC chip and an NFC antenna. In such an embodiment the orientation sensor may generate data which specifies a distance between the electronic device and an NFC transceiver.

The electronic device may include a microphone or one or more speakers. In at least some embodiments an electronic device includes a plurality of speakers . For example in some embodiments the electronic device includes two or more speakers . The two or more speakers may for example be disposed in spaced relation to one another. That is in at least some embodiments the electronic device may include a first speaker and a second speaker and the first speaker and the second speaker may be spatially separated from one another within the electronic device . In at least some embodiments the display may be disposed between the first speaker and the second speaker of the electronic device. In such embodiments the first speaker may be located at one side of the display and the second speaker may be located at another side of the display which is opposite the side of the display where the first speaker is located. For example the first speaker may be disposed at a left side of the display and the second speaker may be disposed at a right side of the display. In at least some embodiments each speaker may be associated with a separate audio channel. The multiple speakers may for example be used to provide stereophonic sound which may also be referred to as stereo .

The electronic device may also include one or more cameras . The one or more cameras may be capable of capturing images in the form of still photographs or motion video.

In at least some embodiments the electronic device includes a front facing camera . A front facing camera is a camera which is generally located on a front face of the electronic device . The front face is typically the face on which a display is mounted. That is the display is configured to display content which may be viewed from a side of the electronic device where the camera is directed. The front facing camera may be located anywhere on the front surface of the electronic device for example the camera may be located above or below the display . The camera may be a fixed position camera which is not movable relative to the display of the electronic device or the housing of the electronic device . In such embodiments the direction of capture of the camera is always predictable relative to the display or the housing. In at least some embodiments the camera may be provided in a central location relative to the display to facilitate image acquisition of a face.

In at least some embodiments the electronic device includes an electromagnetic EM radiation source . In at least some embodiments the EM radiation source is configured to emit electromagnetic radiation from the side of the electronic device which is associated with a camera of that electronic device . For example where the camera is a front facing camera the electronic device may be configured to emit electromagnetic radiation from the front face of the electronic device . That is in at least some embodiments the electromagnetic radiation source is configured to emit radiation in a direction which may visible by the camera. That is the camera and the electromagnetic radiation source may be disposed on the electronic device so that electromagnetic radiation emitted by the electromagnetic radiation source is visible in images detected by the camera.

In some embodiments the electromagnetic radiation source is an infrared IR radiation source which is configured to emit infrared radiation. In at least some embodiments the electromagnetic radiation source may be configured to emit radiation which is not part of the visible spectrum. The camera may be a camera which is configured to capture radiation of the type emitted by the electromagnetic radiation source . Accordingly in at least some embodiments the camera is configured to capture at least some electromagnetic radiation which is not in the visible spectrum.

In some embodiments the electronic device is provided with a service routing application programming interface API which provides an application with the ability to route traffic through a serial data i.e. USB or Bluetooth Bluetooth is a registered trademark of Bluetooth SIG Inc. connection to a host computer system using standard connectivity protocols. When a user connects their electronic device to the host computer system via a USB cable or Bluetooth connection traffic that was destined for the wireless network is automatically routed to the electronic device using the USB cable or Bluetooth connection. Similarly any traffic destined for the wireless network may automatically be sent over the USB cable Bluetooth connection to the host computer system for processing.

The electronic device may also include a power source which may be a wired power supply such as mains supply or battery for example one or more rechargeable batteries that may be charged for example through charging circuitry coupled to a battery interface such as the data port . The power source provides electrical power to at least some of the electrical circuitry in the electronic device and the power interface provides a mechanical and electrical connection for the power source . The power interface is coupled to a regulator not shown which provides power V to the circuitry of the electronic device .

The electronic device includes a short range communication subsystem which provides for wireless communication between the electronic device and other electronic devices . In at least some embodiments the short range communication subsystem is a wireless bus protocol compliant communication mechanism such as a Bluetooth communication module to provide for communication with similarly enabled systems and devices.

Any one or more of the communication subsystem the auxiliary input output I O subsystems the NFC subsystem the short range wireless communications subsystem and data port may serve as the communication subsystem also designated as communication subsystem in for passing data to from the processor and remote devices similar or identical to device and or communication networks. For example these subsystems may be configured to receive process and provide an indicator of an incoming message or communication being received by the electronic device . The incoming message may for example be an electronic message such as an email a message received via a social networking website an SMS short message service message or a telephone call for example. Thus reference herein to communication subsystem may in fact be a reference to any one or more of the communication subsystem the auxiliary input output I O subsystems the NFC subsystem the short range wireless communications subsystem and data port and thus data including messages received and transmitted by from the processor thereby.

The electronic device may in some embodiments provide a data communication mode and optionally a voice communication mode. In the data communication mode a received data signal of an electronic message such as a text message an email message or Web page download will be processed by the communication subsystem and input to the processor for further processing. For example a downloaded Web page may be further processed by a browser application or an electronic message may be processed by an messaging application and the message or page itself or notification of its arrival via the communication subsystem may be output to the display . A user of the electronic device can compose data items such as electronic messages for example using the input devices in conjunction with the display . These composed items may be transmitted through the communication subsystem over the wireless network .

In the voice communication mode the electronic device provides telephony functions and operates as a typical cellular or mobile phone. Received voice signals can be output to the speaker and signals for transmission would be generated by a transducer such as the microphone . The telephony functions are provided by a combination of software firmware i.e. a voice communication module and hardware i.e. the microphone the speaker and input interfaces . Alternative voice or audio I O subsystems such as a voice message recording subsystem may also be implemented on the electronic device . Although voice or audio signal output is typically accomplished primarily through the speaker the display screen may also be used to provide an indication of the identity of a calling party duration of a voice call or other voice call related information.

The processor operates under stored program control and executes software modules based on program application data stored in memory such as persistent memory for example in the flash memory . As illustrated in the software modules include operating system software and other software applications .

The program application data is executable by the processor to permit various functions to be performed with the electronic device whereby for example the application data can be received processed and the display can then be adapted by the processor to display the application data itself or notifications or representations thereof. For example application data such as one or more electronic messages may be received over the data network or short range link at the communication subsystem or data port which passes this data to the processor . A program application such as a message application which is being executed by the processor may process the received data and generate a notification for display on the display . The notification may be generated by the processor in the form of display data which is passed to the display for causing or adapting the display of one or more notifications on the display . The processor may cause the notification to be displayed for a predetermined time only before the display of the notification is changed or the notification is removed from the display partially or entirely. As will be explained in further detail below the processor may receive one or more signals from the input interface and thereby control and or adapt the display of the notification on the display . The processor may cause the notification to be displayed adapted or removed based on one or more operating states of one or more program applications which are being executed by the processor not necessarily the receipt of data via the communication subsystem .

Referring now to a front view of an electronic device which in the depicted example of is a communications device such as a wireless mobile handheld and or portable communications device e.g. mobile phone or smartphone is illustrated. The communications device may offer advanced computing capability. For example the communications device may have the ability to run third party applications which are stored on the communications device. In the context of the claimed invention the communications device may be a first or second electronic device or both.

The communications device includes all of the components discussed above with reference to or a subset of those components. The communications device includes a housing which houses at least some of the components discussed above with reference to .

In the depicted embodiment the communications device includes a display which may be a touchscreen which acts as an input interface . The display is disposed within the communications device so that it is viewable at a front side of the communications device . That is a viewable side of the display is disposed on the front side of the electronic device. In the embodiment illustrated the display is framed by the housing .

The communications device also includes other input interfaces such as one or more buttons keys or navigational input mechanisms. In the embodiment illustrated at least some of these additional input interfaces are disposed for actuation at a front side of the communications device.

The communications device may also include a speaker . In the embodiment illustrated the communications device includes a single speaker which is disposed vertically above the display when the communications device is held in a portrait orientation where its height is longer than its width. The speaker may be disposed on the front face of the communications device .

While the communications device of includes a single speaker in other embodiments the communications device may include a greater number of speakers . For example in at least some embodiments the communications device may include a second speaker which is disposed vertically below the display when the communications device is held in a portrait orientation where its height is longer than its width i.e. the orientation illustrated in .

The communications device also includes a microphone . In the embodiment illustrated the microphone is vertically disposed below the display when the communications device is held in the portrait orientation. The microphone and at least one speaker may be arranged so that the microphone is in close proximity to a user s mouth and the speaker is in close proximity to a user s ear when the user holds the phone to their face to converse on the communications device.

The communications device also includes a front facing camera which may be located vertically above the display when the communications device is held in a portrait orientation where its height is longer than its width. The front facing camera is located so that it may capture images of objects which are located in front of or surrounding the front side of the communications device .

The communications device also includes an electromagnetic radiation source . The electromagnetic radiation source is disposed on the front side of the communications device . In this orientation electromagnetic radiation which is produced by the electromagnetic radiation source may be projected onto objects which are located in front of or surrounding the front side of the communications device . Such electromagnetic radiation or the projection of electromagnetic radiation onto objects may be captured on images detected by the camera .

Referring now to a front view of a display device comprising the display is illustrated. The depicted display device may be an external display device separate or remote from the electronic device or built into the housing of the electronic device . The display device may be in communication with the external video output port . The display device may include a housing which houses one or more of the components discussed above with reference to .

The display device includes a display which as explained above may include a touch sensitive interface or overlap which acts as the input interface . The display is disposed within the display device so that it is viewable at a front side of the display device . That is a viewable side of the display is disposed on the front side of the display device . In the embodiment illustrated the display is framed within the housing by frame .

The frame can surround the display and is the portion of the housing which provides a border around the display . In at least some embodiments the frame is an active frame . That is the frame has a touch sensitive overlay which allows the display device to detect a touch applied to the frame thus allowing the frame to act as component of the input interface .

The display device may optionally include a plurality of speakers . In the embodiment illustrated the tablet includes two speakers . The two speakers are disposed on opposing sides of the display . More particularly when the display device is positioned in a landscape orientation such as the orientation illustrated in where its width is longer than its height one of the two speakers is disposed on a right side of the display and one of the speakers is disposed on the left side of the display . Both speakers may be disposed on the front side of the display device .

The display device may also optionally include a microphone . In the embodiment illustrated the microphone is vertically disposed below the display when the display device is held in the landscape orientation illustrated in . The microphone may be located in other locations in other embodiments.

The display device may also include a front facing camera which may be located vertically above the display when the display device is held in a landscape orientation i.e. the orientation of . The front facing camera may be located on the display device so that it may capture images of objects which are located in front of or surrounding the front side of the display device .

The display device which be a completely discrete and independent additional electronic device similar or identical to electronic device and contain the functionality of such a device completely independently from device . In this regard the display device may be being controlled by electronic device so that the display shows display data output by the device separate from or in addition to display data generated internally by the device acting as an additional electronic device. For example the display device may be acting as a mirroring device for a display generated by device .

Servers and are also connected to the communications network and one or more of them may individually or together support electronic communications services available to end users of electronic devices and enabling them to send and receive electronic communications. Servers and may be web servers or communications servers such as email servers transmitting and receiving data such as electronic messages to from and or between electronic devices and

Other servers and services may of course be provided allowing users of electronic devices and to send and receive electronic communications or messages by for example Voice over IP phone calls video IP calls video chat group video chat blogs file transfers instant messaging and feeds.

Wireless network may also support electronic communications without using communications network . For example a user of communications device may use wireless network to make telephony calls video calls send text messages send multimedia messages and send instant messages to communications device and to display application data on a display screen of the external display device or control the display of application data.

The embodiment shown in is intended to be non limiting and additional network infrastructure may of course be provided such as a Public Switched Telephone Network not shown which may be used for example to make telephony calls using one communication device or to another or to a wired phone not shown .

In order to explain certain example modes of operation reference is made below to and . Reference is made a first electronic device or which may respond to events detected by the processor such as the receipt of data e.g. electronic messages from one or more servers or directly from a second electronic device over network or through communications subsystem or via direct communication established via for example subsystems or port and a second electronic device . The processor in electronic device or may comprise or be one or more processing circuits configured to perform the methods described herein and the one or more processing circuits may comprise one or more discrete electronic processing components.

The event detected by the processor may include one or more of detection of receipt of an electronic message such as an email SMS instant messenger notification detection of a preset alarm indicative of a current or upcoming event detection of a preset stored or received current or upcoming calendar event or any other alert or notification corresponding to application data stored or received within or by the device and which may notified to a user of the device .

In a first configuration see the processor is in a first operating state in which a notification of an event detected by the processor is displayed on the display as a display object . The input interface can detect user input e.g. by the pointing device controlling the position of pointer on the display in a direction towards the display object . When such input is detected at a position X either any input in a direction towards the display object or a predefined amount of user input e.g. continuous movement of the pointer under control of the pointing device in a direction towards the display object for a detected predefined duration of time and or discrete segments of movement in a direction towards the display object within a set predefined duration of time then the processor places itself into a second operating state and the display can be placed into a second configuration see .

In the context of the present disclosure detection via the input interface of user input towards or in a direction towards the display object may include detection of any user input across the display e.g. of pointer controlled by pointing device or of a touch gesture in the case of touch sensitive detection via input interface which has at least a directional component which is in a direction having a magnitude greater than zero i.e. positive towards the display object which may include in a direction towards any part of the display object the border of the display object and or the geometric centre of the display object .

If in the first operating state no user input or insufficient user input in a direction towards the display object is detected within a first predefined duration of time then the display object may be removed from the display by the processor or reduced or faded in appearance over time.

In the second configuration see the processor is in the second operating state. In this second operating state the processor may adapt or redisplay the display object as displayed in the first operating state or maintain the display object in its form from the first configuration so that in either event the display object is not removed from the display for at least a second predefined duration of time. If the display object is modified by the processor as a result of being in the second operating state then the modification may be such that the display object now includes an indication that the processor is in the second operating state i.e. user input towards the display object has been detected e.g. an icon indicating this state or colour within or of the display object may be changed with respect to the first configuration .

In the second operating state the input interface can again detect user input e.g. by the pointing device controlling the position of pointer on the display in a direction towards the display object . When such input is detected either any input in a direction towards the display object or a predefined amount of user input e.g. continuous movement of the pointer under control of the pointing device in a direction towards the display object for the detected predefined duration of time and or discrete segments of movement in a direction towards the display object within the set predefined duration of time then the processor maintains itself in the second operating state and the display is kept in the second configuration . In this regard the calculation of the time for comparison with the second predefined time duration may be reset to zero such that so long as there is user input at a given time towards the display object there is always at the given time the second predefined amount of time remaining before the display object starts to be or is completely removed from the display or caused to be reduced in appearance or faded.

If in the second operating state no user input or insufficient user input in a direction towards the display object is detected within the second predefined duration of time then the display object may be removed from the display by the processor or reduced or faded in appearance over time. The second predefined duration may equate to the first predefined duration.

If the current detected position of user input X is detected as having moved into or within a first predefined distance A1 of the display object e.g. as calculated from the border of the display object the geometrical centre of the display object or other characteristic or feature of the display object when in the first or second configurations or user input is detected as having moved into or within a first predefined region A of the display when in the first or second operating state then the processor places itself into a third operating state and the display is placed into a third configuration see. i and ii .

In the third configuration see. i and ii the processor is in the third operating state. In this third operating state the processor adapts or reconfigures the display object to be in a different form to that displayed in the first and or second operating states. For the third configuration the processor causes the display object to display different and or additional information e.g. additional information concerning the event to that displayed when in the first and or second configurations .

In one example as depicted in i if the display object pertains to notification of an event which is receipt of an electronic message by the device then the additional information may include a preview of some or all of the content of the received message e.g. the body of the message text and or time and or date of receipt of the message if not already displayed in the first or second configurations . In the first and or second configurations the display object may display more limited information pertaining to the message e.g. information indicative only of the sender of the message such as name and or image associated with the sender and or time and or date of receipt of the message.

In one example as depicted in ii the display object pertains to electronic messages stored on the device in which case the additional information may include a preview of some or all or any of the content of the received message and correspond to comprise or be indications of some or all preceding messages in a conversation or from a given sender all messages unread messages such as all unread messages present on the device and information or an indications of new messages such as all new messages received with a predefined time period or since the additional information was previously viewed on the display . The aforementioned information may be viewable and or accessible in the display object in a scrollable list which can be scrolled through input received via the input interface .

In another example if the display object pertains to notification of an event which is warning of a current or upcoming calendar entry or alarm stored as application data in the device then the additional information may include a preview of some or all of the content of the calendar or alarm entry e.g. the body of the message text and or location assigned to the calendar or alarm entry if not already displayed in the first or second configurations . In the first and or second configurations the display object may display more limited information pertaining to the event or alarm e.g. information indicative only of the subject or title of the calendar entry or alarm and or location assigned to the calendar entry or alarm.

In the third configuration and third operating state if the position X of user input e.g. pointer is controlled by pointing device to move out of the first predetermined region A or to be greater than the first predetermined distance A1 then the operating state may revert to one of the first or second operating states as defined by the user input detected by the input interface and described above and the display will be adapted to be in the first or second configuration .

If user input is detected into or within a second predefined region e.g. a region defined by a second predefined distance B1 of the display object when in the first second or third operating states e.g. as calculated from the border of the display object the geometrical centre of the display object or other characteristic or feature of the display object then the processor places itself into a third operating state and the display is placed into a fourth configuration see. . The second predefined distance B1 may be different to the first predefined distance A1 or the second predefined region B which is different to the first predefined region A. The second predefined region B may equate to the region of the display which is coincident with the display object e.g. with its border when in the first second third or fourth configurations. As shown in user input by the pointer is into the second predefined region defined by the border of the display object in the third configuration . Upon detection of such user input e.g. position of pointer when in the first second or third operating states the processor places itself into the fourth operating state and the display is placed into a fourth configuration see .

In the fourth configuration the processor is in the fourth operating state. In this fourth operating state the processor adapts or reconfigures the display object to be in a different form to that displayed in the first second and or third operating states which may be in an expanded form i.e. increased in size . For the fourth configuration the processor causes the display object to display different and or additional information to that displayed in the first second and or third configurations e.g. additional information concerning the event to that displayed when in the first second and or third configurations .

For example in the fourth configuration the display object may contain some or all of the text body and or subject of earlier messages received from and or sent to the same sender of the message which gave rise to the event notification causing display of the display object in the first second and or third configurations . In addition or alternatively in the fourth configuration the display object may contain one or more user input fields e.g. text input fields pertaining to input of information relating to the event or user input controls e.g. user controllable buttons. The user input fields may comprise text input fields for changing data pertaining to the detected event e.g. a reply text input field for replying to a message which gave rise to the event notification or text edit fields for the time date location subject and or body of a calendar or alarm notification event. The user input controls may comprise one or more controls for replying to or ignoring a message which gave rise to the event notification event accepting snoozing cancelling declining or making tentative a calendar or alarm notification event or cancelling the event notification and display object completely by removing it from the display .

In the fourth configuration and fourth operating state if user input e.g. pointer is controlled by pointing device to move out of the second predetermined region B or to be greater than the second predetermined distance B1 then the operating state may revert to one of the first second third operating states as defined by the user input detected by the input interface and described above and the display will be adapted to be in the corresponding first second or third configurations .

In respect of the above disclosure it will be appreciated that the first second third and fourth operating states can be referred to as notification states in respect of the display object being a notification for example of an event detected by the processor . In addition it will be appreciated that the first second third and fourth operating states can occur independently of the state which precedes them. Each of the first second third and fourth operating states can occur independently of any other of the first second third and fourth operating states following an initial operating state in which the display object e.g. notification is displayed on the display . The above disclosure and describe one exemplary embodiment in which the first second third and fourth operating states follow a preceding state in the order set out above. However this need not necessarily be the case and each of the second third and fourth operating states may by the subsequent operating state which immediately follows the first initial operating state.

At block the processor causes the display object to be displayed on a display the notification initially being in the first operating state.

At block the processor detects user input and determines if the user input is being made in a direction towards the display object .

At block if the user input is being made in a direction towards the display object the processor places the notification into the second operating state.

While the present application is primarily described in terms of devices and methods e.g. electronic devices and the devices may include components for performing at least some of the example aspects and features of the described methods be it by way of hardware components such as the memory and or the processor software or any combination of the two or in any other manner. Moreover an article of manufacture for use with the apparatus such as a pre recorded storage device or other similar computer readable medium including program instructions recorded thereon may direct the apparatus to facilitate the practice of the described methods. It should be understood that such apparatus and articles of manufacture come within the scope of the present application.

The term computer readable medium as used herein means any medium which can store instructions for use by or execution by a computer or other computing device including but not limited to a portable computer diskette a hard disk drive HDD a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or flash memory an optical disc such as a Compact Disc CD Digital Versatile Disc DVD or Blu Ray Disc and a solid state storage device e.g. NAND flash or synchronous dynamic RAM SDRAM . The computer readable medium may be a non transitory computer readable medium.

It will be appreciated that the foregoing discussion relates to particular embodiments. However in other embodiments various aspects and examples may be combined.

