---

title: Semantic audio track mixer
abstract: An audio mixer for mixing a plurality of audio tracks to a mixture signal has a semantic command interpreter for receiving a semantic mixing command and for deriving a plurality of mixing parameters for the plurality of audio tracks from the semantic mixing command; an audio track processor for processing the plurality of audio tracks in accordance with the plurality of mixing parameters; and an audio track combiner for combining the plurality of audio tracks processed by the audio track processor into the mixture signal. A corresponding method has: receiving a semantic mixing command; deriving a plurality of mixing parameters for the plurality of audio tracks from the semantic mixing command; processing the plurality of audio tracks in accordance with the plurality of mixing parameters; and combining the plurality of audio tracks resulting from the processing of the plurality of audio tracks to form the mixture signal.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09532136&OS=09532136&RS=09532136
owner: Fraunhofer-Gesellschaft zur Foerderung der angewandten Forschung e.V.
number: 09532136
owner_city: Munich
owner_country: DE
publication_date: 20130731
---
This application is a continuation of copending International Application No. PCT EP2012 050365 filed Jan. 11 2012 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety and additionally claims priority from European Application No. 11153211.5 filed Feb. 3 2011 which is also incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The field of the present invention is related to an audio mixer for mixing of multi track signals according to user specifications. It is related to audio signal processing in particular to the task of mixing a multi track recording according to a set of user defined criteria. The field of the invention is further related to a method for mixing a plurality of audio tracks to a mixture signal. The field of the invention is also related to a computer program for instructing a computer to perform the method for mixing a plurality of audio tracks.

The ever growing availability of multimedia content yields new ways for the user to enjoy music and to interact with music. These possibilities are accompanied by the challenge to develop the tools for assisting the user in such activities.

From the perspective of information retrieval this challenge has been taken more than a decade ago leading to the vibrant research area of music information retrieval and numerous commercial applications.

A different aspect which has not been addressed to this extent is the interaction with content which is available in a multi track format. A multi track format can consist of separate and time aligned signals also known as single tracks ST for each sound object SO or groups of objects stems . According to one definition stems are the individual components of a mix separately saved usually to disc or tape for the purpose of use in a remix.

In the traditional process of music production multiple single tracks are combined in a sophisticated manner into a mixture signal MS which is then delivered to the end user. The ongoing evolution of digital audio technologies e.g. the development of new audio formats for parametric object based audio enables the interaction with music to a much larger extent. The user has access to multi track recordings and can actively control the mixing process. Some artists have begun releasing the stems for some of their songs the intention being that listeners can freely remix and reuse the music in any way desired.

A musical or audio work released in multi track format can be used in numerous ways. The user may control the mixing parameters for the different tracks thus emphasising selected tracks while attenuating other tracks. One or more tracks may be muted for example for the purposes of karaoke or play along. Sound effects such as echo reverberation distortion chorus etc. may be applied to selected tracks without affecting the other tracks. One or more tracks may be excerpted from the multi track format and can be used in another musical work or another form of audio work such as an audio book a lecture a podcast etc. In the following description an application of the teachings disclosed herein discusses in an exemplary manner the mastering of a recorded musical work. It should be understood however that the processing of any recorded sound involving mixing a plurality of single audio tracks is intended to be equally addressed and covered by the teachings disclosed herein.

Automatic mixing has been and still is the focus of a number of research projects. In 2009 Perez Gonzalez et al. described a method for automatic equalization of multi track signals E. Perez Gonzalez and J. Reiss Automatic Equalization of Multi Channel Audio Using Cross Adaptive Methods Proc. of the AES 127Conv. 2009 . The authors present a method for automatically setting the attenuation for each signal of a multi track signal. The gains are determined such that the loudness of each signal equals the average loudness of all signals. Another article by the same authors addressed Automatic Gain and Fader Control for Live Mixing and was published in Proc. of WASPAA 2009.

Semantic HiFi is the name of the European Project IST 507913 H. Vinet et al. Semantic HiFi Final Report Final Report of IST 507913 2006 . It is mainly related to the retrieval browsing and sharing of multimedia content. This comprises browsing and navigating in databases playlist generation intra track navigation using structural analysis like verse chorus identification and meta data sharing. It also addresses the interaction authoring editing generating mixes including synchronization that is concatenating audio signals not mixing multi track signals voice transformation rhythm transformation voice controlled instruments and effects.

Another project is known under the designation Structured Audio or MPEG 4. Structured Audio enables the transmission of audio signals at low bit rates and perceptually based manipulation and access of sonic data using symbolic and semantic description of the signals cf. B. L. Vercoe and W. G. Gardner and E. D. Scheirer Structured Audio Creation Transmission and Rendering of Parametric Sound Representations Proc. of IEEE vol. 86 pp. 922 940 1998 . It features a description of parametric sound post production for mixing multiple streams and adding audio effects. The parametric descriptions determine how the sounds are synthesized. Structured audio is related to synthesizing audio signals.

In the international patent application published under international publication number WO 2010 111373 A1 a context aware speech controlled interface and system is disclosed. The speech directed user interface system includes at least one speaker for delivering an audio signal to a user and at least one microphone for capturing speech utterances of a user. An interface device interfaces with the speaker and the microphone and provides a plurality of audio signals to the speaker to be heard by the user. A control circuit is operably coupled with the interface device and is configured for selecting at least one of the plurality of audio signals as a foreground audio signal for delivery to the user through the speaker. The control circuit is operable for recognizing speech utterances of a user and using the recognized speech utterances to control the selection of the foreground audio signal.

United States Patent Application Publication No. US 2002 0087310 A1 discloses a computer implemented method and system for handling a speech dialogue with a user. Speech input from a user contains words directed to a plurality of concepts. The user speech input contains a request for a service to be performed. Speech recognition of the user speech input is used to generate recognized words. A dialogue template is applied to the recognized words. The dialogue template has nodes that are associated with predetermined concepts. The nodes include different request processing information. Conceptual regions are identified within the dialogue template based upon which nodes are associated with concepts that approximately match the concepts of the recognized words. The user s request is processed by using the request processing information of the nodes contained within the identified conceptual regions.

The article Transient Detection of Audio Signals Based on an Adaptive Comb Filter in the Frequency Domain M. Kwong and R. Lefebvre presents a transient detection algorithm suitable for rhythm detection in music signals. In many audio signals low energy transients are masked by high energy stationary sounds. These masked transients as well as higher energy and more visible transients convey important information on the rhythm and time segmentation of the music signal. The proposed segmentation algorithm uses a sinusoidal model combined with adaptive comb filtering in the frequency domain to remove the stationary component of a sound signal. After filtering the time envelope of the residual signal is analyzed to locate the transient components. Results show that the proposed algorithm can accurately detect most low energy transients.

The mixing of a multi track recording typically is an authoring task which is usually done by an expert the mixing engineer. Current developments in multimedia like interactive audio formats lead to applications where multi track recordings need to be mixed in an automated way or in a semi automated way guided by a non expert. It is desired that the automatically derived mixture signal has comparable subjective sound quality to a mixture signal generated by a human expert.

The teachings disclosed herein address this general goal. The teachings are related to audio signal processing in particular the task of mixing a multi track according to a set of user defined recording criteria for the eventual purpose of listening. An audio mixer and a method for mixing a plurality of audio tracks to a mixture signal according to the teachings disclosed herein establish a connection between a substantially aesthetic idea of a non expert and the resulting mixture signal.

According to an embodiment an audio mixer for mixing a plurality of audio tracks to a mixture signal may have a semantic command interpreter for receiving a semantic mixing command and for deriving a plurality of mixing parameters for the plurality of audio tracks from the semantic mixing command wherein the plurality of mixing parameters are a function of spectral and temporal characteristics of the plurality of audio tracks an audio track processor for processing the plurality of audio tracks in accordance with the plurality of mixing parameters and an audio track combiner for combining the plurality of audio tracks processed by the audio track processor into the mixture signal.

According to another embodiment a method for mixing a plurality of audio tracks to a mixture signal may have the steps of receiving a semantic mixing command deriving a plurality of mixing parameters for the plurality of audio tracks from the semantic mixing command wherein the plurality of mixing parameters are also a function of spectral and temporal characteristics of the plurality of audio tracks processing the plurality of audio tracks in accordance with the plurality of mixing parameters and combining the plurality of audio tracks resulting from the processing of the plurality of audio tracks to form the mixture signal.

According to another embodiment an audio mixer for mixing a plurality of audio tracks to a mixture signal may have a semantic command interpreter for receiving a semantic mixing command and for deriving a plurality of mixing parameters for the plurality of audio tracks from the semantic mixing command an audio track processor for processing the plurality of audio tracks in accordance with the plurality of mixing parameters and an audio track combiner for combining the plurality of audio tracks processed by the audio track processor into the mixture signal and an audio track identifier for identifying a target audio track among the plurality of audio tracks the target audio track being indicated within the semantic mixing command by an audio track identification expression the audio track identifier being configured to retrieve a data record that corresponds to the audio track identification expression from an audio track template database the data record having information about a corresponding musical instrument in the form of at least one of a measurement value and a sound sample to analyze the audio tracks and to compare audio signals of the audio tracks with the data record in order to determine one audio track or several audio tracks that appear to match the target audio track.

According to another embodiment a method for mixing a plurality of audio tracks to a mixture signal may have the steps of receiving a semantic mixing command deriving a plurality of mixing parameters for the plurality of audio tracks from the semantic mixing command the plurality of mixing parameters having a mixing parameter for a target audio track identifying a target audio track being indicated within the semantic mixing command by an audio track identification expression retrieving from an audio track template database a data record that corresponds to the audio track identification expression the data record having information about a corresponding musical instrument in the form of at least one of a measurement value and a sound sample identifying the target audio track among the plurality of audio tracks by analyzing audio signals of the audio tracks and comparing them with the data record to determine one audio track or several audio tracks that appear to match the target audio track processing the plurality of audio tracks in accordance with the plurality of mixing parameters and combining the plurality of audio tracks resulting from the processing of the plurality of audio tracks to form the mixture signal.

Another embodiment may have a computer program for instructing a computer to perform the above methods for mixing a plurality of audio tracks to a mixture signal.

According to the teachings disclosed herein an audio mixer for mixing a plurality of audio tracks to a mixture signal comprises a semantic command interpreter an audio track processor and an audio track combiner. The semantic command interpreter is configured for receiving a semantic mixing command and for deriving a plurality of mixing parameters for the plurality of audio tracks from the semantic mixing command. The audio track processor is configured for processing the plurality of audio tracks in accordance with the plurality of mixing parameters. The audio track combiner is configured for combining the plurality of audio tracks processed by the audio track processor into the mixture signal.

The method for mixing a plurality of audio tracks to a mixture signal according to the disclosed teachings comprises receiving a semantic mixing command deriving a plurality of mixing parameters for the plurality of audio tracks from the semantic mixing command processing the plurality of audio tracks in accordance with the plurality of mixing parameters and combining the plurality of audio tracks resulting from the processing of the plurality of audio tracks to form the mixture signal.

The computer program comprises or represents instructions for enabling a computer or a processor to perform the method for mixing a plurality of audio tracks. The computer program may be embodied on a computer readable medium having stored thereon said computer program for performing when running on a computer the above methods.

The semantic mixing command may be based on user defined criteria which provide a semantic description of the desired resulting mixture signal. According to the teachings disclosed herein semantic audio analysis psychoacoustics and audio signal processing may be incorporated with each other in order to derive a mixture signal automatically on the basis of the semantic descriptions. This process may be termed Semantic Mixing .

Semantic Mixing may be regarded as a method which enables a computer to mix a multi track recording according to a specification given by a user. The specification is typically given in the form of a semantic description. Given this semantic description the mixing parameters may be determined by taking into account the characteristics of the single track s and the human hearing.

The audio mixer according to the teachings disclosed herein thus typically comprises a computer or processor or it interacts with a computer processor. The audio track processor and the audio track combiner may be combined as a single unit.

The deriving of the plurality of mixing parameters from the semantic mixing command may involve analyzing a meaning of the semantic mixing command or of parts thereof. A part of the semantic mixing command may be a semantic expression such as a word or a group of words. The semantic expression s may then be translated to a set of specific mixing parameters for the plurality of audio tracks. Thus the semantic mixing command is implemented by means of the specific mixing parameters that correspond to the meaning of the semantic mixing command. The action of translating the semantic mixing command and or of its constituting semantic expressions may comprise evaluating a translation function or querying a lookup table for example. Parameters of the translation function or data records in the lookup table are typically pre defined and represent a collection of expert knowledge of e.g. experienced mixing engineers. The expert knowledge may be gathered over time e.g. by logging the oral instructions given by an artist or a music producer to his her mixing engineer as well as the settings performed by the mixing engineer. Thus the translation function and or the lookup table may be trained by an expert mixing engineer.

According to an aspect of the teachings disclosed herein the semantic command interpreter may comprise a vocabulary database for identifying semantic expressions within the semantic mixing command. By means of the vocabulary database the semantic command interpreter may identify for example synonyms. It may further be possible to map a word or a group of words contained in the semantic mixing command to a specific value. For example a word for identifying an instrument guitar may be mapped to a particular channel number or identifier on which the instrument has been recorded. The vocabulary database may further comprise entries identifying a certain part of a musical part such as the beginning e.g. Intro the chorus Chorus or the end e.g. Coda or Outro . Yet another possible use of the vocabulary database is for recognizing and assigning semantically expressed mixing parameters or styles such as loud soft clear muffled distant close etc.

In an embodiment of the teachings disclosed herein the audio mixer may further comprise an audio track identifier for identifying a target audio track among the plurality of audio tracks. The target audio track may be indicated within the semantic mixing command by an audio track identification expression. The audio track identifier may be useful if the plurality of audio tracks are not clearly marked or identified as to which part or stem they contain. For example the audio tracks may be simply numbered as track track . . . track N . The audio track identifier may then analyze each one of the plurality of audio tracks to determine either none one or several audio tracks that appear to match an audio track identified by the track identification expression.

The audio track identifier may be configured to retrieve a data record that corresponds to the audio track identification expression from an audio track template database to perform an analysis of at least one of a track name a track identifier a timbre a rhythmic structure a frequency range a sound sample and a harmonic density of at least one audio track among the plurality of audio tracks to compare a result of the analysis with the data record resulting in at least one matching score and to determine the target audio track on the basis of the at least one matching score between the at least one audio track and the data record. The task to be performed by the audio track identifier is to identify the target audio track among the plurality of audio tracks. The target audio track corresponds to the audio track identification expression that is if the audio track identification expression is guitar then subsequent to successful identification by the audio track identifier the target audio track should typically contain the guitar part of a musical work. The audio track template database may comprise a data record corresponding to the instrument guitar the data record itself comprising values and or information that are characteristic for a guitar. For example the data record may comprise a frequency model of the typical guitar sound and or an attack decay model of the typical guitar sound. The data record could also contain a sound sample of a guitar which may be used for a similarity analysis by the audio track identifier.

According to an aspect of the teachings disclosed herein the audio mixer may further comprise a time section identifier for identifying a target time section within the plurality of audio tracks the target time section being indicated within the semantic mixing command by a time section identification expression. In case the user wishes to mix a first section of an audio signal e.g. a musical work differently from a second section of the same audio signal the audio mixer typically needs to know where the various sections of the audio signal begin and end in order to apply specific mixing parameters to these sections of the audio signal.

The time section identifier may be configured to structure the plurality of audio tracks into a plurality of time sections. Especially musical works often have a certain structure influenced by musical conventions e.g. the song form with its alternating verse and chorus sections. This knowledge may be exploited by the time section identifier by first determining whether the audio signal represented by the plurality of audio tracks follows a certain musical structure and then to assign the time sections of the audio signal to the time sections of the musical structure. To this end the time section identifier may comprise a pattern recognizer to recognize recurring and or similar patterns within the audio signal. Pattern recognition may be based on melody analysis harmonic analysis and rhythmic analysis to name a few.

The time section identifier may be configured to perform an analysis of the plurality of audio tracks for determining at least one time instant at which a change of a characteristic property of an audio signal represented by the plurality of audio tracks occurs and for using the at least one determined time instant as at least one boundary between two adjacent time sections.

The audio mixer may further comprise a meta data interface for receiving meta data relative to the plurality of audio tracks the meta data being indicative of at least one of a track name a track identifier a time structure information an intensity information spatial attributes of an audio track or a part thereof timbre characteristics and rhythmic characteristics. The meta data may have been generated by the producer of the plurality of audio tracks and provide useful information for the audio mixer or the method for mixing the plurality of audio tracks. The availability of meta data saves the audio mixer or the method from having to perform an extensive analysis of the audio signal in order to identify the various audio tracks and or time sections. The meta data interface may also be used for storing the results instruments time structure . . . of an analysis for future reuse. Thus a potentially lengthy analysis of the plurality of audio tracks needs to be performed only once. Furthermore any manual corrections to the automatically determined analysis results may also be stored so that the user does not have to correct the same issues over and over again. Having the stored analysis results at hand the user may produce different mix versions from the same plurality of audio tracks using the same meta data.

According to an aspect of the teachings disclosed herein the audio mixer may further comprise a command interface for receiving the semantic mixing command in a linguistic format. The linguistic format allows the user to express his her desires regarding the result of the mixing performed by the audio mixer substantially by means of normal language. The semantic mixing command in the linguistic format may be input to the audio mixer as spoken language using a microphone or written language using e.g. a keyboard.

According to another aspect of the teachings disclosed herein the audio mixer may further comprise an example interface for receiving an exemplary mixture signal and a mixture signal analyzer for analyzing the exemplary mixture signal and for generating the semantic mixing command based on the analyzing of the exemplary mixture signal. Using the exemplary mixture signal provided via the example interface the mixture signal analyzer may determine which features characterize the exemplary mixture signal. For example the mixture signal analyzer may recognize an emphasis on the strongly repetitive drum part and the bass part while the melody is less accentuated. These detected features suggest a so called Dance Mix i.e. a certain style of mixing. This information may be provided from the mixture signal analyzer to the semantic command interpreter. Based on this information the semantic command interpreter may for example increase the volume of the drum part and the bass part relative to the other parts. The semantic command interpreter might even replace the drum part with for example a synthesized drum part typically used for the desired Dance Mix style.

The example interface may be further configured to receive a plurality of example audio tracks from which the exemplary mixture signal was obtained. The mixture signal analyzer may be configured to compare the example audio tracks with the exemplary mixture signal in order to determine the mixing parameters that were used to obtain the resulting exemplary mixture signal. The semantic mixing command produced by the mixture signal analyzer could then comprise a description of how the example audio tracks were modified before they were mixed together to form the exemplary mixture signal. For example the semantic mixing command may comprise an expression such as drums significantly louder vocals moderately softer more distant filtered with high pass filter . The semantic command interpreter may then derive the plurality of mixing parameters from this semantic mixing command.

According to another aspect of the teachings disclosed herein the semantic command interpreter may comprise a perceptual processor for transforming the semantic mixing command into the plurality of mixing parameters according to a perceptual model of hearing related properties of the mixture signal. The perceptual model typically implements psychoacoustic rules that describe how certain mixing parameters should be chosen in order to achieve a desired effect for the listener. For example for conveying an impression of distance several sound processing actions may be involved such as reverberation frequency filtering and attenuation. The perceptual model which is typically based on psychoacoustic findings facilitates the determination of suitable mixing parameters for the realization of a desired effect.

According to another aspect of the teachings disclosed herein the semantic command interpreter comprises a fuzzy logic processor for receiving at least one fuzzy rule derived from the semantic mixing command by the semantic command interpreter and for generating the plurality of mixing parameters on the basis of the at least one fuzzy rule. The fuzzy logic processor is well suited for processing the semantic mixing command in the form of the at least one fuzzy rule. The at least one fuzzy rule maps an input quantity of the fuzzy logic processor to an output quantity of the fuzzy logic processor in a substantially semantic domain i.e. a mapping from a quantity of a first semantic format to a quantity of a second semantic format.

The fuzzy logic processor may be configured to receive at least two concurring fuzzy rules prepared by the semantic command interpreter and wherein the audio mixer further comprises a random selector for selecting one concurring fuzzy rule among the at least two concurring fuzzy rules. By randomizing the selection of the fuzzy rule from two or more concurring fuzzy rules an illusion of artistic freedom can be created so that the mixture signals produced by the audio mixer do not tend to sound substantially alike as far as the mixing style is concerned which could otherwise be the case when the audio mixer follows a more rigid scheme with respect to the fuzzy rules.

In terms of the method for mixing the plurality of audio tracks a vocabulary database for identifying semantic expressions within the semantic mixing command may be queried.

The method may further or alternatively comprise an identification of a target audio track among the plurality of audio tracks the target audio track being indicated within the semantic mixing command by an audio track identification expression. To this end a data record that corresponds to the audio track identification expression from an audio track template database may be retrieved. Then an analysis of at least one of a track name a track identifier a timbre a rhythmic structure a frequency range a sound sample and a harmonic density of at least one audio track among the plurality of audio tracks may be performed. A result of the analysis may be compared with the data record resulting in at least one matching score. Then the target audio track may be determined on the basis of the at least one matching score between the at least one audio track and the data record.

The method may also comprise an action for identifying a target time section within the plurality of audio tracks the target time section being indicated within the semantic mixing command by a time section identification expression. The action for identifying the target time section may be configured to structure the plurality of audio tracks into a plurality of time sections. The time section identification may comprise performing an analysis of the plurality of audio tracks for determining at least one time instant at which a change of a characteristic property of an audio signal represented by the plurality of audio tracks occurs and using the at least one determined time instant as at least one boundary between two adjacent time sections.

According to another aspect of the teachings disclosed herein the method may further comprise receiving meta data relative to the plurality of audio tracks at a meta data interface. The meta data may be indicative of at least one of a track name a track identifier a time structure information an intensity information spatial attributes of an audio track or a part thereof timbre characteristics and rhythmic characteristics.

The method may further comprise receiving the semantic mixing command in a linguistic format at a command interface of a corresponding audio mixer.

According to another aspect of the teachings disclosed herein the method may further comprise receiving an exemplary mixture signal at an example interface analyzing the exemplary mixture signal by means of a mixture signal analyzer and generating the semantic mixing command based on the analyzing of the exemplary mixture signal.

The action of deriving the plurality of mixing parameters from the semantic mixing command may comprise transforming the semantic mixing command into the plurality of mixing parameters according to a perceptual model of hearing related properties of the mixture signal.

According to an aspect of the teachings disclosed herein the action of deriving the plurality of mixing parameters may comprise receiving at least one fuzzy rule derived from the semantic mixing command by a semantic command interpreter and generating the plurality of mixing parameters on the basis of the at least one fuzzy rule. The reception of the at least one fuzzy rule and the generation of the plurality of mixing parameters on the basis of the at least one fuzzy rule may be performed by a fuzzy logic processor.

The method may further comprise receiving at least two concurring fuzzy rules and randomly selecting one concurring fuzzy rule among the at least two concurring fuzzy rules.

The teachings disclosed herein are different from the above mentioned known technology in the following points 

To briefly summarize some of the core aspects of the teachings disclosed herein the mixing of a multi track recording is an authoring task. Semantic Mixing aims at developing solutions for mixing a multi track recording guided by semantic descriptions. It combines techniques of semantic audio analysis psychoacoustics and audio signal processing. Semantic mixing is applicable to various applications like music production SAOC Spatial Object Audio Coding home video authoring virtual reality and games.

The teachings disclosed herein relate inter alia to a method for the mixing of multi track signals according to user specifications. It is related to audio signal processing in particular to the task of mixing a multi track recording according to a set of user defined criteria. The user defined criteria provide a semantic description of the resulting mixture signal. The teachings disclosed herein may incorporate audio analysis psychoacoustics and audio signal processing in order to derive a mixture signal automatically on basis of the semantic description.

A mixing engineer might want to treat different time sections of a musical work in different ways. The reason may be the desire to achieve a certain artistic effect or to make the mixture signal MS sound more uniformly by compensating for potential imperfections that may have occurred during the recording of the plurality of audio tracks. Knowledge about the time structure of the musical work or a general audio recording e.g. audio book lecture etc. can assist the mixing engineer in finding the starting points and end points of the various time sections in the recording.

With the plurality of single audio tracks at hand the musical work can be mastered as desired by the performing artist and or the mixing engineer. In particular the character or mood of a musical work may be altered in a significant manner by changing the mixing parameters that are used for the plurality of audio tracks ST. Providing the plurality of audio tracks ST for a consumer for mixing offers the consumer a large degree of freedom. However many users lack the experience to appropriately select the mixing parameters in particular because of complicated interconnections and interactions between the mixing parameters. In order to achieve a certain effect which appears to affect a single audio track the mixing parameters of several or even all audio tracks might have to be adjusted.

Typically the user or listener has a certain idea of how the mixture signal should sound but does not know how the mixing parameters should be adjusted to achieve this idea.

The audio mixer according to the teachings disclosed herein establishes a link between a semantic expression that describes the user s idea or desire in a concise form and the actual mixing parameters needed to mix the plurality of single audio tracks ST into the mixtures signal MS.

A simple yet illustrative example for a semantic description guiding a mixing process is the following During the guitar solo mix the guitar prominently and move the keyboards slightly into the background .

To accomplish this at least some of the various sub tasks listed below typically need to be addressed 

In the schematic block diagram of showing a possible configuration of an audio mixer according to the teachings disclosed herein the above mentioned sub tasks are accomplishes by modules of the audio mixer. The audio mixer comprises a user interface UI a command interpreter CI a semantic audio analysis SAA a target descriptor assignment unit DAU a perceptual processor and a signal processor .

The user interface provides facilities for capturing an input from a user of the audio mixer. Different options for the implementation of the user input exist as illustrated by a plurality of sub modules that are part of the user interface . Examples are 

The command interpreter is connected to the user interface and translates the input which is human readable or given by examples into machine readable commands. These commands typically have restricted vocabulary and known grammar which is provided and or controlled by a vocabulary grammar sub module .

Examples for the implementation of the command interpreter are given in Table 1 for different user interface designs.

Besides the user input the audio mixer also receives data comprising the single audio tracks ST as an input. In case the data corresponds to audio tracks of a musical work the data may comprise a music container and an optional meta data container . The data may be provided to the audio mixer via a suitable interface not shown in .

The data is fed to the Semantic Audio Analysis SAA . The semantic audio analysis typically is an automated process which computes a set of meta data for each of the audio tracks ST. Furthermore meta data describing the multi track i.e. the plurality of audio tracks may be computed e.g. musical genre . The meta data are semantic descriptors which characterize the audio signals.

These meta data may be used to assign the appropriate signal processing via the mixing parameters to each of the single tracks ST.

The semantic audio analysis can be performed every time the process of Semantic Mixing is performed. Optionally the semantic audio analysis can be performed once during production authoring and the resulting meta data can be stored and transmitted together with the multimedia item.

Optionally the semantic audio analysis can be guided by user inputs i.e. the user can assist the semantic audio analysis or he she can input meta data if he she is not satisfied with one or more of the automatically derived results of the semantic audio analysis. These correctional user input may be stored by the semantic audio analysis to be taken into account during future analyses so that the semantic audio analysis may adapt to the user s preferences i.e. the semantic audio analysis is trained over time by means of the user inputs.

The semantic audio analysis may comprise a first sub module for computing the meta data on the basis of the audio signals contained in the plurality of audio tracks ST. Additionally or alternatively the semantic audio analysis may comprise a second sub module for reading meta data that is provided along with the plurality of audio tracks ST.

Connected to the command interpreter and the semantic audio analysis is the target descriptor assignment unit DAU . Given the commands form the command interpreter and the meta data obtained from the semantic audio analysis the target descriptor assignment unit selects parts of the audio signal it determines the tracks and starting times and stop times which correspond to sound objects for which commands exist and assigns appropriate perceptual target descriptors PTD to them.

If the commands are given using linguistic variables the target descriptor assignment unit can use fuzzy logic for the conversion between linguistic variables into crisp values.

An output of the target descriptor assignment unit providing the perceptual target descriptor is connected to an input of the perceptual processor PP . The perceptual processor computes the physical parameters mixing parameters for mixing and additional signal processing e.g. DAFx given the assigned perceptual target descriptor. This typically is a highly demanding task which needs to take into account psychoacoustics and expert knowledge .

This is illustrated with the following example For a particular audio signal e.g. a guitar track the descriptor for the perceived level is set to high . A simple solution is to increase the gain of the guitar by a fixed amount e.g. 6 dB. This simple solution may not have the desired effect in all cases since the perception of loudness depends on spectral and temporal characteristics of the processed audio signal and of the mixture signal MS in a highly complex way.

Better results may be obtained by setting all levels such that the loudness of the guitar which is perceived by the listener in the mix is adjusted e.g. by using a perceptual model of loudness and partial loudness. Partial loudness is the loudness of a signal of presented in a sound mixture where the signal of interest is partially masked.

Different aspects of human hearing and the perception of sound typically need to be addressed in addition to the perception of loudness. These are the perception of the amount of reverberation sound localization and the perception of spatial attributes.

The psychoacoustics part is important to translate the semantic description e.g. make this slightly louder into a physical parameter e.g. boosting by 4.5 dB .

The perceptual processor is connected via one of its outputs to an input of the signal processor SP . The signal processor may comprise a module handling the physical mixing parameters one or more digital audio effects and a module for formatting . With the physical parameters for mixing and signal processing the signal processor computes the mixture signal MS.

In the Convention Paper Automatic Music Production System Employing Probabilistic Expert Systems Audio Engineering Society presented at the 129Convention 2010 Nov. 4 7 the authors R. Gang et al. propose to employ a probabilistic graphical model to embed professional audio engineering knowledge and infer automatic production decisions based on musical information extracted from audio files. The production pattern which is represented as probabilistic graphical model can be learned from the operation data of a human audio engineer or manually constructed from domain knowledge. The perceptual processor and or the semantic command interpreter may implement the technical features proposed in this Convention Paper. The entire content of the foregoing Convention Paper is incorporated herein by reference.

Each of these operations is controlled by the physical parameters as computed by the perceptual processor .

Formatting is optionally necessitated to take care of physical constraints e.g. applying an automated gain control and format conversion audio coding decoding .

The user interface can be implemented as a set of presets. Each preset represents a mixing type with a set of characteristics. These characteristics can be given as semantic expressions in the form of mixing rules and are described below in the context of the description of the command interpreter .

These names give a description of the target mixture signal MS in a highly compressed way yet the user can interpret them or a subset of them . The ability of the user to interpret the names of the presets is based on conventions and widely used stylistic classifications. For example a user may associate a specific playing style and or sound with the name of a certain artist.

Within the context of the command interpreter a set of mixing rules is assigned to each of the presets using a look up table. Mixing rules are depicted as logical implications in the form of IF THEN statements as in Fuzzy Logic J. M. Mendel Fuzzy Logic Systems for Engineering A Tutorial Proc. of IEEE vol. 83 pp. 345 377 1995 as shown here where a sound object descriptor is the antecedent and a mixing operation descriptor is the consequent 

The mixing operation descriptors MOD describe level i.e. volume panning position distance and other characteristics of a sound object SO which can be perceived in a mixture signal MS. Mixing operation descriptors MOD which are applied to a sound object SO may be designated by SO.MOD within the data structure. The mixing operation descriptors MOD can also be applied to the mixture signal MS. These mixing operation descriptors MOD are designated by MT.MOD. Typically these mixing operation descriptors MOD control the signal processing which is applied to all audio signals or to the mixture signal e.g. reverberation or dynamic range processing DRP.

A mixing operation descriptor MOD may consist of a perceptual attribute and a value which is assigned to the perceptual attribute. Mixing operation descriptors can be implemented as linguistic variables.

The perceptual attributes can be linguistic variables. The assigned values can be one of the following Very low Low Medium High Very high .

Perceptual attributes which are not set by a mixing operation descriptor MOD are set to default values.

Optionally mixing rules may be specified for the mixture signal MS. They are not linked to characteristics of the sound objects SO. The resulting operations are applied to all sound objects SO if no sound object is specified in the IF part of the mixing rule.

Furthermore in the IF part of the rules the attributes can also be compared to relative values instead of absolute values. This means that an attribute of one sound object SO can be compared to the same attribute of all other sound objects SO using operations like maximum or minimum e.g.

It should be noted that the attributes and rules listed above are examples and not meant to be the complete set for the particular mixing preset.

According to an aspect of the teachings disclosed herein a variation of the rule set may be performed. In particular the rule set can be implemented to contain concurring rules rules with the same antecedent but different consequent of which one is selected arbitrarily randomized . This introduces variations into the results and thereby increases user satisfaction. It is also beneficial in situations where no uniform rule set can be agreed on in the process of producing the rule set.

Turning now to an exemplary implementation of the semantic audio analysis recall that the semantic audio analysis is applied to gather the information about the plurality of audio tracks ST and possibly the multi track that may be useful for determining which mixing parameters are to be applied to which one of the plurality of audio tracks ST. The semantic audio analysis processes each audio track ST of the plurality of audio tracks separately and additionally a representation of the multi track MT. The representation of the multi track MT may be obtained for example in the form of a mixture signal derived from down mixing all audio tracks ST with unit gains.

The results can be represented as an array of structures where each array element contains the meta data for one audio track ST and an additional structure containing the meta data of the multi track. The variable types of the structure elements can be strings e.g. for instrument names scalar values e.g. for tempo entropy or arrays e.g. for starting times and stop times for the description of playing styles or dedicated structures for itself e.g. a structure for describing the form of a musical piece .

An analysis result can be accompanied by a confidence measure which represents the degree of reliability of the respective result.

The semantic audio analysis may be useful to standardize the provided multi track audio material by assigning unique identifiers to the audio tracks ST and to the various time sections of the musical work. In particular the multi track audio material typically is not a predefined format following a certain convention. In other words the audio mixer cannot rely on that a specific audio track e.g. track contains a certain instrument e.g. guitar . The meta data produced by the semantic audio analysis however may provide substantially standardized information about the organization and the content of the multi track signal that assist other modules of the audio mixer to accomplish their respective tasks. The standardization done by the semantic audio analysis is useful because it allows the mixing command provided by the command interpreter to be related to the encountered situation of the multi track audio signal. Thus the command interpreter and the semantic audio analysis speak the same language .

The target descriptor assignment unit DAU processes the meta data provided by the semantic audio analysis and the mixing rules from the command interpreter in order to assign mixing operation descriptors to the plurality of audio tracks ST or to segments of the audio tracks ST. These descriptors state how each sound object SO which are dominant in the respective segment of the audio track ST are perceived in the target mixture signal MS.

It is assumed that in each audio track ST only one sound object is dominant at a time. Given this assumption the attributes derived from the semantic audio analysis which are computed for each audio track ST are processed as attributes for the sound object SO. Alternatively the semantic audio analysis can output more than one attribute structure for each audio track ST if the audio track ST contains multiple sound objects especially if the several sound objects SO temporally succeed each other within the audio track ST which means that the several sound objects SO may be relatively easily separated. Another possibility is that a first sound object SO is present mainly in the left channel of a stereo signal while a second sound object SO is present mainly in the right channel. Yet another possibility would be that the several sound objects can be separated in the frequency domain by means of low pass high pass and or bandpass filters.

Fuzzy Logic can be applied if the input variables are crisp values but the rule set is formulated using fuzzy attributes e.g. low or high . For example the degree of variation in the playing of an instrument can be expressed as a scalar value in the range between 0 and 1. Furthermore the semantic audio analysis can output the meta data together with confidence values e.g. probabilities describing the degree of confidence with which the estimated meta data has been computed.

Fuzzy Logic allows for modelling complex tasks often incorporating expert knowledge. It makes use of Fuzzy Sets which provide a straight forward mechanism for converting precise values into fuzzy descriptions back and forth.

An overview of the processing if implemented as a Fuzzy Logic System is shown in the block diagram in Mendel 1995 . The Fuzzy Logic System comprises a fuzzification module an inference module a rule set and a defuzzification module . The fuzzification module receives a set of crisp inputs for example from the semantic audio analysis . On the basis of the crisp input the fuzzification produces a fuzzy input set which is fed to the inference module . The inference module evaluates the fuzzy input set by means of a rule set that is equally fed to the inference module . The rule set may be provided by the command interpreter . The inference module produces a fuzzy output set and feeds it to the defuzzification module . In the defuzzification module the fuzzy output set is translated to crisp outputs which may then be as the mixing parameters or as intermediate quantities.

Turning now to the fuzzification in more detail the assignment of mixing operation descriptors MOD to the single audio tracks ST is done on the basis of the criteria described in the IF part of the rule set determined by the command interpreter . If the respective meta data form the semantic audio analysis are given as real numbers or as strings together with a confidence value e.g. as the result of the instrument classification the real numbers are translated into linguistic variables using Fuzzification. Fuzzy Sets are sets whose elements have a degree of membership. This degree of membership can be any real number in the interval 0 1 in contrast to classical set theory where the degree of membership is either 0 or 1 .

The Fuzzification is performed using the membership functions for the Fuzzy Set as exemplarily shown in . In the Fuzzification for each real valued input variable the corresponding Fuzzy Set I. A. Zadeh Fuzzy Sets Information and Control vol. 8 pp. 338 353 1965 and the membership degree is determined. For example given a brightness value of 0.25 the corresponding Fuzzy Sets are very low with membership 0.5 and low with membership 0.5.

In the Inference step or module Fuzzy Sets for the input variables are mapped to Fuzzy Sets for the output variables using the set of rules . The result is again a set of linguistic variables together with corresponding confidence membership degrees for the perceptual attributes.

In the following step or module the Defuzzification the results of the inference are converted into crisp values for the output variables using their corresponding Fuzzy Sets. That is the variables listed in the above table of perceptual attributes have counter parts with crisp values.

With respect to the perceptual processor the outputs of the command interpreter and the target descriptor assignment unit determine how each of the sound objects SO should appear in the mixture signal MS. So far this specification is given by means of the perceptual values.

The perceptual processor translates the perceptual values into the physical mixing parameters by taking the signal characteristics and human hearing mechanisms into account. The following paragraphs illustrate the processing of some perceptual values namely sound levels panning coefficients for given lateral angles reverberation levels and time delays DAFx parameters equalization and dynamic range processing.

Sound levels for the sound objects SO may be computed using a perceptual loudness model e.g. the model described by Glasberg in 2002.

Alternatively the loudness model described by Moore in 1996 may be used to compute the loudness of a sound signal within mixtures of sound signals B. C. J. Moore and B. R. Glasberg A Revision of Zwicker s Loudness Model Acustica Acta Acustica vol. 82 pp. 335 345 1996 .

Gain factors for each audio track ST are computed such that the perceived loudness of the sound object SO in the audio track ST or the mixture signal MS matches the semantic description as expressed by the mixing operation descriptor MOD.

Panning coefficients for given lateral angles the perception of lateral position of a sound object SO is determined by inter aural level differences ILD and inter aural time differences ITD at the ear entrances Lord Rayleigh On our perception of Sound Direction Philosophical Magazine vol. 6 pp. 214 232 1907 . Within the context of the perceptual processor time delays and level differences are determined for each playback channel such that the perception of lateralization is evoked.

Reverberation levels and time delays The levels for the artificial reverberation processors are determined such that the perceived amount of reverberation matches the semantic descriptions given by the user. Reverberation levels are defined for each sound object separately and or for the mixture signal MS. Reverberation levels can be adjusted for each sound object separately in order to evoke the perception of distance for a particular sound object SO. Distance perception is additionally controlled by the level time delay equalization curve and lateral position.

DAFx parameters Setting the parameters for the digital audio effects depends on the particular DAFx processor. The level of the DAFx processed signal is computed using a loudness model e.g. Moore 1996 .

Equalization Parameters for Equalization are set such that the processed signals match the perceptual attributes relative to the brightness of the sound object or the mixture signal MS.

Dynamic range processing Parameters for the dynamic range processing DRP are set to match perceptual attributes for the dynamic range.

The rules are created by the semantic command interpreter on the basis of the semantic mixing command provided by the user.

A perceptual model provides fuzzification and defuzzification parameters to the fuzzy logic processor . The fuzzification and defuzzification parameters establish a link between numerical values and corresponding semantic descriptions. For example the fuzzification and defuzzification parameters may specify loudness ranges for audio signals that appear soft medium or loud to a listener.

Furthermore the perceptual model may specify which mixing parameters are involved when a certain effect is desired. Corresponding values for these mixing parameters may also be specified by the perceptual model . These specifications may be provided to the semantic command interpreter as guidelines. The semantic command interpreter may follow these guidelines when creating the fuzzy rules.

The audio mixer may comprise an optional random fuzzy rule selector which is used when two concurring fuzzy rules have been created by the semantic command interpreter and only one can be implemented by the fuzzy logic processor . A moderate degree of randomness may increase user satisfaction as the mixing process appears to be more natural and human . After all a human mixing engineer may occasionally act slightly randomly too which may be perceived as artistic by a client of the mixing engineer.

The semantic command interpreter corresponds by and large to the command interpreter of . Furthermore the semantic command interpreter may comprise some functionality of the target descriptor assignment module and the perceptual processor . The semantic command interpreter receives a semantic mixing command as an input and derives one mixing parameter or a plurality of mixing parameters from the semantic mixing command. The plurality of mixing parameters are provided to the audio track processor or to be more precise to individual audio track processors ATP ATP ATP ATP N of the audio track processor . The mixing parameters are typically in the form of crisp values which may be readily implemented by the plurality of individual audio track processors ATP to ATP N.

The plurality of individual audio track processors ATP to ATP N modify audio signals provided by corresponding ones of the audio tracks ST to ST N according to the mixing parameters.

In the configuration shown in the semantic command interpreter is capable of assigning a particular semantic content within the semantic mixing command to the appropriate mixing parameter for the corresponding individual audio track processor ATP to ATP N. This ability of the semantic command interpreter may be based on the fact that the plurality of single audio tracks ST to ST N are organized according to an agreed standard so that the semantic command interpreter may know which track corresponds to which instrument. In alternative configurations of the audio mixer are depicted and described in the corresponding parts of this description that are capable of deriving information about the organization of the multi track recording and or a time structure of the recorded musical work from the data itself.

The plurality of audio track ST to MT is provided to the semantic audio analysis . By analyzing the plurality of audio tracks track information and time structure information may be obtained which are provided to a semantic to crisp conversion module .

The semantic mixing command comprises a plurality of expressions each expression comprising specifying a target time section a target track and a mixing operation .

The semantic to crisp conversion module corresponds approximately to the target descriptor assignment unit of . The semantic to crisp conversion module also receives information from the semantic mixing command as an input. On the basis of the provided inputs the semantic to crisp conversion module creates one or more perceptual target descriptors PTD and the corresponding mixing parameters. The perceptual target descriptor PTD may contain track identifiers of the affected audio tracks ST to ST N as well as time section information in case only a time section of the affected audio track s is affected by the mixing command. Note that the mixing parameters may be crisp values.

The semantic audio analysis may optionally receive the target time section specification and or the target track specification as an input so that the semantic audio analysis may analyze the plurality of audio tracks ST to MT with a particular focus on the provided specifications.

The basic structure of the configuration shown in is substantially the same as in however some parts have been omitted for the sake of clarity.

As it is not always immediately clear which audio track ST to ST N contains which instrument or vocal part the audio track identifier may be used to determine this information. The audio track identifier may be a part of the semantic audio analysis .

The semantic mixing command comprises a target audio track identification as has been mentioned relative to . The target audio track identification is provided to an audio track template database . The audio track template database provides one or more data records that correspond to the target audio track identification and provides it or them to the audio track identifier . The data record may comprise information about e.g. an instrument in the form of measurement values sound samples etc. The audio track identifier may then compare the information contained in the data record with the audio signals of each one of the plurality of audio tracks ST to ST N. To this end the audio track identifier may for example perform a cross correlation of a sound sample from the data record with a short section of the audio track signal. Another option would be to determine the location and magnitude of the overtones of the audio track signal and to compare the result with the corresponding data in the data record. Yet another option is given by analyzing and comparing an attack decay sustain release behaviour of the audio track signal.

The audio track identifier generates track identification information which is provided to the audio track processor so that the audio track processor may process each single audio track ST to ST N according to an indication by e.g. an instrument name within the semantic mixing command.

The time section information is provided to the semantic command interpreter which uses it to translate a semantic time section expression used within the semantic mixing command to crisp section start and end time values.

The analysis of the time structure of a musical work performed by the time section identifier may employ one or more of the methods proposed by various researchers in the past. In their article Automatic Music Summarization Based on Music Structure Analysis ICASSP 2005 Xi Shao et al. the entire content of which being incorporated herein by reference suggest a novel approach for music summarization based on music structure analysis. In particular the note onset is first extracted from the audio signal in order to obtain the time tempo of the song. The music structure analysis can be performed on the basis of this tempo information. After music content has been structured into different regions such as Introduction Intro Verse Chorus Ending Outro etc. the final music summary can be created with chorus and music phrases which are included anterior or posterior to selected chorus to get the desired length of the final summary. The music structure analysis distinguishes between melody based similarity regions verses and content base similarity regions chorus .

In Chorus Detection with Combined Use of MFCC and Chroma Features and Image Processing Filters Proc. of the 10Int. Conference on Digital Audio Effects DAFx 07 Bordeaux France Sep. 10 15 2007 the author Antti Eronen describes a computationally efficient method for detecting a chorus section in popular rock music. The method utilizes a distance matrix representation that is obtained by summing two separate distance matrices calculated using the mel frequency cepstral coefficient and pitch chroma features. The entire content of the Eronen article is incorporated herein by reference.

Mark Levy et al. are the authors of an article Extraction of High Level Musical Structure from Audio Data and its Application to Thumbnail Generation ICASSP 2006 the content of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. In the article a method for segmenting musical audio with a hierarchical timbre model is introduced. New evidence is presented to show that music segmentation can be recast as clustering of timbre features and a new clustering algorithm is described.

In A Chorus Section Detection Method for Musical Audio Signals and Its Application to a Music Listening Station IEEE Transactions on Audio Speech and Language Processing Vol. 14 No. 5 September 2006 the author Masataka Goto describes a method for obtaining a list of repeated chorus hook sections in compact disc recordings of popular music. First a 12 dimensional feature vector called a chroma vector which is robust with respect to changes of accompaniments is extracted from each frame of an input signal and then the similarity between these vectors is calculated. The sections identified as being repeated sections are listed and integrated. The method can even detect modulated chorus sections by introducing a perceptually motivated acoustic feature and a similarity that enable detection of a repeated chorus section even after modulation. The entire content of the article is incorporated herein by reference.

An overview of then known automatic music structural analysis methods has been compiled by Bee Suang Ong in his thesis Structural Analysis and Segmentation of Music Signals Universitat Pompeu Barcelona 2007 ISBN 978 84 691 1756 9 the entire content of which is incorporated herein by reference.

The meta data if present saves the audio mixer from having to determine audio track information time section information or other useful information from the multi track signal. Such a determination may involve computationally intensive data processing tasks which may take a relatively long time. Moreover the results of the determination performed by the audio mixer itself may be less reliable than meta data provided produced and provided by an originator of the multi track audio signal.

The meta data interface is configured to extract the meta data from the data of the multi track recording. At an output side the meta data interface is connected to an input of the semantic command interpreter . In the configuration shown in the semantic command interpreter is configured to use the meta data provided by the meta data interface in the process of deriving the plurality of mixing parameters from the semantic mixing command.

The example interface is configured to receive an exemplary mixture signal. The exemplary mixture signal may for example be stored in a memory or retrieved over a network. The user may select the exemplary mixture signal from a collection of exemplary mixture signals according to his her preferences for example because he she likes how a particular mixture signal has been mixed. In general any audio signal may be used as the exemplary mixture signal but better results typically are to be expected if the exemplary mixture signal has a structure and style that is similar to the multi track recording. For example it may be useful if the instrumentation of the exemplary mixture signal is substantially the same as the instrumentation of the multi track signal to be mixed by the audio mixer.

The example interface forwards the exemplary mixture signal to the mixture signal analyzer . The mixture signal analyzer may be configured to identify instrument and vocal parts in the exemplary mixture signal. Furthermore the mixture signal analyzer may determine relative loudness levels and or frequency curves of the identified instrumental parts the identified vocal parts and or the exemplary mixture signal as a whole. It may also be possible to determine an amount of an audio effect such as reverberation. Based on the determined values the mixture signal analyzer may establish a profile of the exemplary mixture signal and or a semantic mixing command. For example the analysis performed by the mixture signal analyzer may reveal that a drum track and a bass track of the exemplary mixtures signal are relatively prominent while other tracks are softer. Accordingly the semantic mixing command may comprise an expression stating that the drum track and the bass track shall be prominent throughout the mixture signal MS to be produced by the audio mixer.

The example interface may also be configured to receive exemplary audio tracks along with the exemplary mixture signal. The exemplary audio tracks are represented by a dashed rhomboid marked exemplary ST s in . The exemplary audio tracks are provided to the mixture signal analyzer by the example interface . The exemplary audio tracks correspond to the exemplary mixture signal in that the exemplary audio tracks were used to generate the exemplary mixture signal. With the exemplary audio tracks being available the mixture signal analyzer may compare the exemplary mixture signal with each one of the exemplary audio tracks in order to find out how a certain exemplary mixture signal has been modified before being mixed into the exemplary mixture signal. In this manner track related mixing parameters may be determined by the mixture signal analyzer in semantic form or semi semantic form.

The configurations shown in may be combined with each other in any combination. For example by combining the configurations shown in an audio mixer comprising an audio track identifier and a time section identifier may be provided.

At an action represented by the block a plurality of mixing parameters is derived from the semantic mixing command. This action may involve expert knowledge and psychoacoustics so that the mixing parameters lead to a result desired by the user.

The plurality of audio tracks is processed according to the mixing parameters in the context of an action represented by the block . The processing of the plurality of audio tracks may comprise setting loudness levels panning positions audio effects frequency filtering equalizing and other modifications.

At an action represented by the block the audio tracks resulting from the processing are combined to form a mixture signal before the method ends at a block .

Although some aspects have been described in the context of an apparatus it is clear that these aspects also represent a description of the corresponding method where a block or device corresponds to a method step or a feature of a method step. Analogously aspects described in the context of a method step also represent a description of a corresponding block or item or feature of a corresponding apparatus. Some or all of the method steps may be executed by or using a hardware apparatus like for example a microprocessor a programmable computer or an electronic circuit. In some embodiments some one or more of the most important method steps may be executed by such an apparatus.

Depending on certain implementation requirements embodiments of the invention can be implemented in hardware or in software. The implementation can be performed using a digital storage medium for example a floppy disk a DVD a Blue Ray a CD a ROM a PROM an EPROM an EEPROM or a FLASH memory having electronically readable control signals stored thereon which cooperate or are capable of cooperating with a programmable computer system such that the respective method is performed. Therefore the digital storage medium may be computer readable.

Some embodiments according to the invention comprise a data carrier having electronically readable control signals which are capable of cooperating with a programmable computer system such that one of the methods described herein is performed.

Generally embodiments of the present invention can be implemented as a computer program product with a program code the program code being operative for performing one of the methods when the computer program product runs on a computer. The program code may for example be stored on a machine readable carrier.

Other embodiments comprise the computer program for performing one of the methods described herein stored on a machine readable carrier.

In other words an embodiment of the inventive method is therefore a computer program having a program code for performing one of the methods described herein when the computer program runs on a computer.

A further embodiment of the inventive methods is therefore a data carrier or a digital storage medium or a computer readable medium comprising recorded thereon the computer program for performing one of the methods described herein. The data carrier the digital storage medium or the recorded medium are typically tangible and or non transitionary.

A further embodiment of the inventive method is therefore a data stream or a sequence of signals representing the computer program for performing one of the methods described herein. The data stream or the sequence of signals may for example be configured to be transferred via a data communication connection for example via the Internet.

A further embodiment comprises a processing means for example a computer or a programmable logic device configured to or adapted to perform one of the methods described herein.

A further embodiment comprises a computer having installed thereon the computer program for performing one of the methods described herein.

A further embodiment according to the invention comprises an apparatus or a system configured to transfer for example electronically or optically a computer program for performing one of the methods described herein to a receiver. The receiver may for example be a computer a mobile device a memory device or the like. The apparatus or system may for example comprise a file server for transferring the computer program to the receiver.

In some embodiments a programmable logic device for example a field programmable gate array may be used to perform some or all of the functionalities of the methods described herein. In some embodiments a field programmable gate array may cooperate with a microprocessor in order to perform one of the methods described herein. Generally the methods may be performed by any hardware apparatus.

While this invention has been described in terms of several embodiments there are alterations permutations and equivalents which will be apparent to others skilled in the art and which fall within the scope of this invention. It should also be noted that there are many alternative ways of implementing the methods and compositions of the present invention. It is therefore intended that the following appended claims be interpreted as including all such alterations permutations and equivalents as fall within the true spirit and scope of the present invention.

