---

title: Configuring dynamic custom vocabulary for personalized speech recognition
abstract: The disclosure includes a system and method for configuring custom vocabularies for personalized speech recognition. The system includes a processor and a memory storing instructions that when executed cause the system to: detect a provisioning trigger event; determine a state of a journey associated with a user based on the provisioning trigger event; determine one or more interest places based on the state of the journey; populate a place vocabulary associated with the user using the one or more interest places; filter the place vocabulary based on one or more place filtering parameters; and register the filtered place vocabulary for the user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09484025&OS=09484025&RS=09484025
owner: TOYOTA JIDOSHA KABUSHIKI KAISHA
number: 09484025
owner_city: Toyota-shi
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20131015
---
The specification relates to speech recognition. In particular the specification relates to a system for configuring custom vocabularies for speech recognition.

A user can issue a speech query to an automatic speech recognition system and receive a query result from the speech recognition system. However the speech recognition system may have difficulty in recognizing some terms in the speech query correctly. For example the speech recognition system may be unable to interpret a query for a place that is located near another location or an intersection. In another example the speech recognition system may not recognize terms that have a personal meaning relevant to the user. Therefore the query result received from the speech recognition system may not match the speech query or the system may be unable to interpret the query at all.

Existing systems may not account for whether the user is about to embark on a journey or query for direction information and thus may not have the most pertinent or fresh user contact location or point of interest information available for use when recognizing user utterance.

In addition some existing speech based navigational systems are limited to using data stored locally on the device and do not include the most up to date or relevant data associated with the user. For instance some systems only rely on a local contacts database and do not take into account the most recent communications that the user may have had for instance on a social network or via an instant messaging program. These systems also often do not account for the current geo location of the user and whether the user s contacts or locations that the user is interested in are located near to that geo location.

Some speech recognition systems may allow users to register a finite size of vocabulary in order to prevent the system from slowing down. However if a large set of vocabulary is registered with these speech recognition systems then the processing speed of speech recognition may be slowed down and the recognition data may possibly be corrupted with noisy data. As a result the accuracy of these speech recognition system can be compromised.

According to one innovative aspect of the subject matter described in this disclosure a system for configuring custom vocabularies for personalized speech recognition includes a processor and a memory storing instructions that when executed cause the system to detect a provisioning trigger event determine a state of a journey associated with a user based on the provisioning trigger event determine one or more interest places based on the state of the journey populate a place vocabulary associated with the user using the one or more interest places filter the place vocabulary based on one or more place filtering parameters and register the filtered place vocabulary for the user.

According to another innovative aspect of the subject matter described in this disclosure a system for configuring custom vocabularies for personalized speech recognition includes a processor and a memory storing instructions that when executed cause the system to detect a provisioning trigger event determine a state of a journey associated with a user based on the provisioning trigger event receive contact data describing one or more contacts associated with a user receive social graph data describing a social graph associated with the user receive location data associated with the user populate a contact vocabulary associated with the user based on the contact data the social graph data contact information associated with the location data and the state of the journey filter the contact vocabulary based on one or more contact filtering parameters and register the filtered contact vocabulary for the user.

According to another innovative aspect of the subject matter described in this disclosure a system for configuring custom vocabularies for personalized speech recognition includes a processor and a memory storing instructions that when executed cause the system to detect a provisioning trigger event determine a state of a journey associated with a user based on the provisioning trigger event receive content data describing one or more content items receive data describing one or more content sources populate a content vocabulary associated with a user based on the content data the one or more content sources and the state of the journey filter the content vocabulary based on one or more content filtering parameters and register the filtered content vocabulary for the user.

In general another innovative aspect of the subject matter described in this disclosure may be embodied in methods that include detecting a provisioning trigger event determining a state of a journey associated with a user based on the provisioning trigger event determining one or more interest places based on the state of the journey populating a place vocabulary associated with the user using the one or more interest places filtering the place vocabulary based on one or more place filtering parameters and registering the filtered place vocabulary for the user.

Other aspects include corresponding methods systems apparatus and computer program products for these and other innovative aspects.

These and other implementations may each optionally include one or more of the following features. For instance the operations include receiving a speech command from the user recognizing one or more custom place terms in the speech command based on the registered place vocabulary sending data describing the speech command that includes the one or more custom place terms receiving a result that matches the speech command including the one or more custom place terms receiving navigation data processing the navigation data to identify a travel route determining one or more road names associated with the travel route determining one or more landmarks associated with the travel route populating the place vocabulary further based on the one or more stop points the one or more landmarks and the one or more road names receiving social network data associated with the user determining the one or more interest places further based on location data included in the social network data receiving search data associated with the user determining the one or more interest places further based on the search data receiving contacts data associated with the user determining the one or more interest places further based on location data in the contacts data receiving search data associated with the user and determining the one or more interest places further based on the search data.

For instance the features include the one or more place filtering parameters including a first location associated with the user determining a coverage radius based on the first location determining a coverage range using the coverage radius and the first location generating the filtered place vocabulary that includes one or more custom place terms corresponding to one or more second locations within the coverage range the journey including a future journey the state of the journey including a journey start time for the future journey and the place vocabulary being populated and registered before the journey start time.

The technology described in this disclosure is particularly advantageous in a number of respects. To reduce the size of the vocabulary the technology is capable of intelligently determining only necessary sets of custom vocabularies using a number of unique factors. The technology can create custom vocabularies for a user and register the custom vocabularies with a speech engine. The implementation of custom vocabularies can enhance accuracy of speech recognition and create a personalized and valuable experience to the user. For example the technology is capable of identifying and implementing speech queries that include location data near one or more known places such as a location a point of interest an intersection etc. In another example without manually inputting personal information into a client device the user can issue a personalized speech command and receive a result that matches the personalized speech command. The technology is also capable of filtering the custom vocabularies based on one or more filtering parameters to restrict the sizes of the custom vocabularies which can prevent the system from slowing down in speech recognition and allows the technology to achieve one or more of faster speech recognition improvement on accuracy of speech recognition better learning of the user s preferences and more personalized experience provided to the user. It should be understood that the foregoing advantages are provided by way of example and the technology may have numerous other advantages and benefits.

The network can be a conventional type wired or wireless and may have numerous different configurations including a star configuration token ring configuration or other configurations. Furthermore the network may include a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN e.g. the Internet and or other interconnected data paths across which multiple devices may communicate. In some embodiments the network may be a peer to peer network. The network may also be coupled to or includes portions of a telecommunications network for sending data in a variety of different communication protocols. In some embodiments the network includes Bluetooth communication networks or a cellular communications network for sending and receiving data including via short messaging service SMS multimedia messaging service MMS hypertext transfer protocol HTTP direct data connection WAP email etc. Although illustrates one network coupled to the server the client device the mobile computing system the search server the social network server the map server and the speech server in practice one or more networks can be connected to these entities.

In some embodiments the recognition application is operable on the server which is coupled to the network via signal line . The server can include a hardware and or virtual server that includes a processor a memory and network communication capabilities. In some embodiments the server can send and receive data to and from one or more of the search server the social network server the speech server the client device the map server and or the mobile computing system . Although illustrates one server the system can include one or more servers .

In some embodiments the recognition application is operable on the client device which is connected to the network via signal line . In some embodiments the client device can send and receive data to and from one or more of the server the search server the social network server the speech server the map server and or the mobile computing system . The client device can include a computing device that includes a memory and a processor for example a laptop computer a desktop computer a tablet computer a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a mobile email device or any other electronic device capable of accessing a network . In some embodiments the user can interact with the client device via signal line . Although illustrates one client device the system can include one or more client devices .

In some examples the recognition application can act in part as a thin client application that may be stored on the client device and in part as components that may be stored on one or more of the server the social network server the speech server and or the mobile computing system . For example the server can store custom vocabularies associated with a user and can generate graphical data for providing a user interface that depicts the custom vocabularies to the user. The recognition application can send instructions to a browser not shown installed on the client device to present the user interface on a display device not shown coupled to the client device . In some embodiments the client device may include a first navigation application . The first navigation application can include code and routines for providing navigation instructions to a user. For example the first navigation application can include a global positioning system GPS application.

In some embodiments the recognition application is operable on a mobile computing system which is coupled to the network via signal line . In some embodiments the mobile computing system can send and receive data to and from one or more of the server the search server the social network server the speech server the map server and or the client device . The mobile computing system can include any computing device that includes a memory and a processor. In some embodiments the mobile computing system can be one of a vehicle an automobile a bus a bionic implant or any other mobile system with non transitory computer electronics e.g. a processor a memory or any combination of non transitory computer electronics . In some embodiments the mobile computing system includes a laptop computer a tablet computer a mobile phone or any other mobile device capable of accessing a network . In some embodiments the user can interact with the mobile computing system via signal line . In some examples a user can be a driver driving a vehicle or a passenger sitting on a passenger seat. Although illustrates one mobile computing system the system can include one or more mobile computing systems . In some embodiments the mobile computing system includes a second navigation application . The second navigation application can include code and routines for providing navigation instructions to a user. For example the second navigation application can be a GPS application.

In some embodiments the recognition application is operable on the social network server which is coupled to the network via signal line . The social network server can include a hardware and or virtual server that includes a processor a memory and network communication capabilities. In some embodiments the social network server can send and receive data to and from one or more of the client device the server the mobile computing system the search server the map server and the speech server via the network . The social network server includes a social network application . A social network can be a type of social structure where the users may be connected by a common feature. The common feature includes relationships connections e.g. friendship family work an interest etc. In some examples the common feature may include explicitly defined relationships and relationships implied by social connections with other online users. In some examples relationships between users in a social network can be represented using a social graph that describes a mapping of the users in the social network and how the users are related to each other in the social network.

As a further example the social network may store and maintain social groups of the users of the system such as groups representing each user s colleagues acquaintances close family and friends most active family and friends socially stale unused contacts etc. These data groupings can be obtained from the social network using APIs exposed by the social network. For instance the recognition application can use the APIs to obtain the data groupings to determine the most relevant important contacts of the user and filter out less significant contacts such as the stale unused restricted contacts and or acquaintances that the user may rarely contact interact with. The social network may also provide access via the APIs to the content streams of the users which the recognition application may use to independently determine which contacts content and or locations are relevant to a particular user based on how frequently or recently they appear in the content streams that are relevant to that user. Other factors may also be used to determine the relevance of the contacts content and or locations included in the content stream s relevant to a given user such as whether that user liked disliked rated any of these items the contextual information associated with any of the items the items the user has expressly subscribed to receive information about and or follow any locations the user has visited relevant to the items etc.

Although includes one social network provided by the social network server and the social network application the system may include multiple social networks provided by other social network servers and other social network applications.

In some embodiments the recognition application is operable on the speech server which is coupled to the network via signal line . The speech server can include a hardware and or virtual server that includes a processor a memory and network communication capabilities. In some embodiments the speech server can send and receive data to and from one or more of the search server the social network server the server the client device the map server and the mobile computing system . Although illustrates one speech server the system can include one or more speech servers .

The recognition application can include code and routines for providing personalized speech recognition to a user. In some embodiments the recognition application can be implemented using hardware including a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific integrated circuit ASIC . In additional embodiments the recognition application can be implemented using a combination of hardware and software. In some embodiments the recognition application may be stored in a combination of the devices and servers or in one of the devices or servers. The recognition application is described below in more detail with reference to at least .

In some embodiments the speech server includes a speech engine and a speech library . The speech engine can be code and routines for conducting a search using personalized speech recognition. In some embodiments the speech engine can receive a speech command from a user and recognize one or more custom terms in the speech command. The speech engine may conduct a search to retrieve a result that matches the speech command including the one or more custom terms and may provide the result to the user. In additional embodiments the speech engine can receive a speech command including one or more custom terms from the recognition application . The speech engine may conduct a search to retrieve a result that matches the speech command including the one or more custom terms. The speech engine may send the result to the recognition application . The speech engine is further described below with reference to at least .

A custom term can be a term configured for a user. For example a custom term home can represent a home address associated with a user a custom term news app can represent an application that provides news items to the user and a custom term Dad can represent contact information e.g. phone number address email etc. of the user s father etc. Other example custom terms are possible.

A custom vocabulary can be a vocabulary including one or more custom terms associated with a user. For example a custom vocabulary can be one of a place vocabulary a contact vocabulary or a content vocabulary associated with a user. The place vocabulary can include one or more custom place terms e.g. interest places landmarks road names etc. associated with the user. The contact vocabulary can include one or more custom contact terms e.g. one or more contacts associated with the user. The content vocabulary can include one or more custom content terms e.g. content sources content categories etc. associated with the user. The place vocabulary the contact vocabulary and the content vocabulary are described below in more detail with reference to at least .

In some embodiments the speech engine includes a registration application . The registration application can be code and routines for registering one or more custom vocabularies related to a user with the speech engine . In some embodiments the registration application can receive data describing one or more custom vocabularies associated with a user from the recognition application register the one or more custom vocabularies with the speech engine and store the one or more custom vocabularies in the speech library . For example the registration application can register interest places included in the place vocabulary with the speech engine and can store the interest places e.g. names and physical addresses associated with the interest places etc. in the speech library . In another example the registration application can register one or more contacts in the contact vocabulary with the speech engine and store contact data e.g. contact names phone numbers email addresses mailing addresses etc. in the speech library .

In some embodiments the registration application can include an application programming interface API for registering one or more custom vocabularies with the speech engine . In some embodiments the registration application can update the custom vocabularies stored in the speech library using new registered custom terms associated with a user.

The speech library can store various registered custom vocabularies associated with various users. For example the speech library can store a place vocabulary a contact vocabulary and a content vocabulary for each user. In some embodiments the speech library may store other example vocabularies for each user. In some embodiments the speech library may include a database management system DBMS for storing and providing access to data.

The search server can be a hardware and or virtual server that includes a processor a memory and network communication capabilities. In some embodiments the search server can receive data describing a search query from one or more of the server the social network server the speech server the client device and the mobile computing system . The search server may perform a search using the search query and generates a result matching the search query. The search server may send the result to one or more of the server the social network server the speech server the client device and the mobile computing system . In some embodiments the search server is communicatively coupled to the network via signal line . Although includes one search server the system may include one or more search servers .

The map server can include a hardware and or virtual server that includes a processor a memory and network communication capabilities. In some embodiments the map server can receive and send data to and from one or more of the server the social network server the speech server the client device the search server and the mobile computing system . For example the map server can send data describing a map to one or more of the recognition application the first navigation application and the second navigation application . The map server is communicatively coupled to the network via signal line . In some embodiments the map server includes a point of interest POI database and a map database .

The POI database can store data describing points of interest POIs in different geographic regions. For example the POI database can store data describing tourist attractions hotels restaurants gas stations landmarks etc. in one or more countries. In some embodiments the POI database may include a database management system DBMS for storing and providing access to data. The map database can store data describing maps associated with one or more geographic regions. In some embodiments the map database may include a database management system DBMS for storing and providing access to data.

Referring now to an example of the recognition application is shown in more detail. is a block diagram of a computing device that includes a recognition application a processor a memory a communication unit an input output device and a storage device according to some embodiments. The components of the computing device are communicatively coupled by a bus . The input output device is communicatively coupled to the bus via signal line . In various embodiments the computing device can be a server a client device a mobile computing system a social network server or a speech server .

The processor includes an arithmetic logic unit a microprocessor a general purpose controller or some other processor array to perform computations and provide electronic display signals to a display device. The processor is coupled to the bus for communication with the other components via signal line . Processor processes data signals and may include various computing architectures including a complex instruction set computer CISC architecture a reduced instruction set computer RISC architecture or an architecture implementing a combination of instruction sets. Although includes a single processor multiple processors may be included. Other processors operating systems sensors displays and physical configurations are possible.

The memory stores instructions and or data that can be executed by the processor . The memory is coupled to the bus for communication with the other components via signal line . The instructions and or data may include code for performing the techniques described herein. The memory may be a dynamic random access memory DRAM device a static random access memory SRAM device flash memory or some other memory device. In some embodiments the memory also includes a non volatile memory or similar permanent storage device and media including a hard disk drive a floppy disk drive a CD ROM device a DVD ROM device a DVD RAM device a DVD RW device a flash memory device or some other mass storage device for storing information on a more permanent basis.

In some embodiments the communication unit is communicatively coupled to the bus via signal line . The communication unit transmits and receives data to and from one or more of the server the mobile computing system the client device the speech server the search server the map server and the social network server depending upon where the recognition application is stored. In some embodiments the communication unit includes a port for direct physical connection to the network or to another communication channel. For example the communication unit includes a USB SD CAT 5 or similar port for wired communication with the client device . In some embodiments the communication unit includes a wireless transceiver for exchanging data with the client device or other communication channels using one or more wireless communication methods including IEEE 802.11 IEEE 802.16 BLUETOOTH dedicated short range communications DSRC or another suitable wireless communication method.

In some embodiments the communication unit includes a cellular communications transceiver for sending and receiving data over a cellular communications network including via short messaging service SMS multimedia messaging service MMS hypertext transfer protocol HTTP direct data connection WAP e mail or another suitable type of electronic communication. In some embodiments the communication unit includes a wired port and a wireless transceiver. The communication unit also provides other conventional connections to the network for distribution of files and or media objects using standard network protocols including TCP IP HTTP HTTPS and SMTP etc.

The storage device can be a non transitory memory that stores data for providing the structure acts and or functionality described herein. In some embodiments the storage device may include a database management system DBMS for storing and providing access to data. The storage device may be a dynamic random access memory DRAM device a static random access memory SRAM device flash memory or some other memory devices. In some embodiments the storage device also includes a non volatile memory or similar permanent storage device and media including a hard disk drive a floppy disk drive a CD ROM device a DVD ROM device a DVD RAM device a DVD RW device a flash memory device or some other mass storage device for storing information on a more permanent basis.

In some embodiments the storage device is communicatively coupled to the bus via signal line . In some embodiments the storage device can store one or more of social network data search data navigation data interest places landmarks road names one or more filtering parameters e.g. place filtering parameters content filtering parameters contact filtering parameters a place vocabulary a contact vocabulary and a content vocabulary associated with a user. The data stored in the storage device is described below in more detail. In some embodiments the storage device may store other data for providing the structure acts and or functionality described herein.

In some embodiments the recognition application includes a controller a journey state module a place module a contact module a content module a registration module a speech module a presentation module a user interface module and a filter module . These components of the recognition application are communicatively coupled via the bus .

The controller can be software including routines for handling communications between the recognition application and other components of the computing device . In some embodiments the controller can be a set of instructions executable by the processor to provide the structure acts and or functionality described below for handling communications between the recognition application and other components of the computing device . In some embodiments the controller can be stored in the memory of the computing device and can be accessible and executable by the processor . The controller may be adapted for cooperation and communication with the processor and other components of the computing device .

The controller can send and receive data via the communication unit to and from one or more of the client device the social network server the server the speech server the map server and the mobile computing system depending upon where the recognition application may be stored. For example the controller can receive via the communication unit social network data from the social network server and send the social network data to one or more of the place module and the content module . In another example the controller can receive graphical data for providing a user interface to a user from the user interface module and send the graphical data to the client device or the mobile computing system causing the client device or the mobile computing system to present the user interface to the user.

In some embodiments the controller may receive data from other components of the recognition application and store the data in the storage device . For example the controller can receive graphical data from the user interface module and store the graphical data in the storage device . In some embodiments the controller may retrieve data from the storage device and send the retrieved data to other components of the recognition application . For example the controller can retrieve data describing a place vocabulary associated with the user from the storage and send the data to the registration module .

The journey state module can be software including routines for determining a state of a journey associated with a user. In some embodiments the journey state module can be a set of instructions executable by the processor to provide the structure acts and or functionality described below for determining a state of a journey associated with a user. In some embodiments the journey state module can be stored in the memory of the computing device and can be accessible and executable by the processor . The journey state module may be adapted for cooperation and communication with the processor and other components of the computing device .

A state of a journey can describe a status and or a context of a journey. For example if the journey is a future journey the state of the journey may include a start time a start point an end point a journey duration a journey route and or one or more passengers e.g. a kid boarding on a vehicle etc. associated with the future journey. In another example if the journey is a current journey that the user is taking the state of the journey may include a start time a start point an end point a journey duration a journey route the user s current location in the journey route the current journey duration since the start time the time to destination and or one or more passengers boarding on a vehicle etc. associated with the current journey.

In some embodiments the journey state module can receive a provisioning trigger event from the registration module and can determine a state of a journey based on the provisioning trigger event. For example the provisioning trigger event may indicate one of a user inserts a key to a keyhole in a vehicle a wireless key is on a key fob handshake process is performed the user remotely controls the vehicle through an application stored on the client device and or the user is walking towards a vehicle. The journey state module can determine a state of the journey as a start of the journey based on the provisioning trigger event. The provisioning trigger event is further described below in more detail.

In some embodiments the journey state module can retrieve user profile data associated with a user from the social network server or a user profile server not pictured responsive to the provisioning trigger event. The user profile data may describe a user profile associated with the user. For example the user profile data includes calendar data describing a personal calendar of the user list data describing a to do list event data describing a preferred event list of the user e.g. a list of events such as a concert a sports game etc. social network profile data describing the user s interests biographical attributes posts likes dislikes reputation friends etc. and or demographic data associated with the user etc. The journey state module may retrieve social network data associated with the user from the social network server .

The journey state module may retrieve mobile computing system data from the user s mobile computing system responsive to the provisioning trigger event. The mobile computing system data can include provisioning data location data describing a location of the mobile computing system a synchronized local time season data describing a current season weather data describing the weather and or usage data associated with the mobile computing system . In some embodiments the mobile computing system includes a vehicle and the mobile computing system data includes vehicle data. Example vehicle data includes but is not limited to charging configuration data for a vehicle temperature configuration data for the vehicle location data describing a current location of the vehicle a synchronized local time sensor data associated with a vehicle including data describing the motive state e.g. change in moving or mechanical state of the vehicle and or vehicle usage data describing usage of the vehicle e.g. historic and or current journey data including journey start times journey end times journey durations journey routes journey start points and or journey destinations etc. .

In some embodiments the journey state module can determine a state of a journey associated with the user based on the user profile data the mobile computing system data and or the social network data. In some examples the journey state module can determine a state of a future journey that includes a start time a journey start point and a journey destination etc. for the future journey based at least in part on the social network data the user profile data and the vehicle data. For example if the vehicle data includes historic route data describing that the user usually takes a route from home to work around 8 00 AM during weekdays the journey state module can predictively determine a start time for a future journey to work as 8 00 AM in a weekday morning based on the historic route data. In another example if the user profile data includes calendar data describing that the user has an early meeting at 8 30 AM in the next morning and the vehicle data includes route data describing that a driving time from home to work is less than 30 minutes the journey state module can predictively determine a start time for a future journey to work as a time before 8 00 AM such as 7 30 AM.

In some examples the journey state module can determine a state of a current journey that the user is currently taking based at least in part on the navigation data received from a GPS application in the user s vehicle. In some examples the navigation data can be received from a client device such as a mobile phone a GPS unit etc. For example the journey state module can determine the user s current location in the journey route the time to destination and or the current duration of the journey since departure etc. based on the navigation data.

In some embodiments the journey state module can send the state of the journey e.g. the state of a future journey or a current journey to one or more of the place module the contact module the content module the registration module and the filter module . In additional embodiments the journey state module may store the state of the journey in the storage .

The place module can be software including routines for generating a place vocabulary associated with a user. In some embodiments the place module can be a set of instructions executable by the processor to provide the structure acts and or functionality described below for generating a place vocabulary associated with a user. In some embodiments the place module can be stored in the memory of the computing device and can be accessible and executable by the processor . The place module may be adapted for cooperation and communication with the processor and other components of the computing device .

A place vocabulary can be a custom vocabulary that includes location data associated with a user. For example a place vocabulary includes one or more interest places one or more landmarks and or one or more road names associated with travel routes taken by the user. An example place vocabulary is illustrated in . In some examples the interest places and the landmarks are referred to as examples of points of interest. The place vocabulary may include other examples of points of interest.

An interest place may be a place that a user may be interested in. Example interest places include but are not limited to a travel destination a stop point on a travel route a home address a working location an address of a gym an address of the user s doctor a check in place e.g. a restaurant a store checked in by the user in a social network etc. a location tagged to a post or an image a place endorsed or shared by the user and a place searched by the user etc. Other example interest places are possible. A stop point can be a location where the user stops during a journey. For example a stop point can be a drive through coffee shop a drive through bank a gas station a dry clean shop or a location where the user picks up or drops off a passenger. Other example stop points are possible.

In some embodiments the place module can receive social network data associated with a user from the social network server for example with the consent from the user. The social network data describes one or more social activities performed by the user on a social network. For example the social network data describes one or more places checked in by the user using the client device or the mobile computing system . In another example the social network data includes posts shares comments endorsements etc. published by the user. In yet another example the social network data includes social graph data describing a social graph associated with the user e.g. a list of friends family members acquaintance etc. . The social network data may include other data associated with the user. The place module can determine one or more interest places associated with the user based on the user s social network data. For example the place module can parse the user s social network data and determine one or more interest places including 1 places checked in by the user 2 locations tagged to one or more posts or images published by the user and or the user s friends 3 places endorsed or shared by the user and or the user s friends and or 4 locations and or places mentioned in the user s posts or comments. In some embodiments the place module can determine one or more interest places implied by the user s social network data even though the one or more interest places are not explicitly checked in tagged endorsed or shared by the user. For example if the user s social network data indicates the user is interested in oil painting the place module can determine one or more interest places for the user as one or more art museums or galleries in town.

In some embodiments the place module can determine one or more interest places further based on location data included in the social network data. For example the location data includes data describing places and or addresses associated with the user e.g. places and or addresses endorsed by the user etc. . The place module can determine one or more interest places as the places and or addresses associated with the user. In some embodiments the place module can receive search data describing the user s social search history e.g. search queries performed on a social network and determine one or more interest places based on the user s search data. For example the search data indicates the user has searched for restaurants that are most popular on the social network and the place module can determine one or more interest places as the restaurants that the user has searched for on the social network.

In some embodiments the place module can receive contacts data associated with the user and determine the one or more interest places based on location data in the contacts data. For example the contacts data can describe one or more addresses of the user s contacts and the place module can determine one or more interest places as the one or more addresses of the user s contacts. In some embodiments the place module can receive search data describing the user s contact search history and determine one or more interest places based on the search data. For example the place module can determine one or more interest places as one or more addresses of contacts that the user searched for 1 hour ago.

In some embodiments the place module can receive search data associated with a user from a search server for example with the consent from the user. The search data may describe a search history that includes one or more search queries associated with the user. For example the search data describes one or more restaurants one or more travel destinations and one or more tourist attractions that the user searches online. In additional embodiments the place module can receive search data from a browser not shown installed on the client device or the mobile computing system . In either embodiment the place module can determine one or more interest places associated with the user from the search data. For example the place module can determine one or more interest places as one or more places searched by the user.

In some embodiments the place module can receive navigation data associated with a user from the mobile computing system and or the client device . For example the place module can receive navigation data from the second navigation application e.g. an in vehicle navigation system . In another example the place module can receive navigation data e.g. GPS data updates in driving mode from the first navigation application e.g. a GPS application installed on the client device . The navigation data describes one or more journeys taken by the user e.g. historical journeys taken by the user in the past a journey currently taken by the user a planned future journey etc. . For example the navigation data includes one or more of travel start points travel destinations travel durations travel routes departure times and arrival times etc. associated with one or more journeys. In another example the navigation data includes GPS logs or GPS traces associated with the user. In some embodiments the place module can determine one or more interest places based on the navigation data. For example the place module can determine interest places as a list of travel destinations from the navigation data. In another example the navigation data may include geo location data associated with the user s mobile device which indicates that the user frequents various establishments e.g. restaurants even though the user does not explicitly check into those locations on the social network the place module can determine those locations as interest places provided for instance the user consents to such use of his her location data.

In some embodiments the place module can process the navigation data to identify a travel route and or one or more stop points associated with the travel route. For example the place module can process GPS logs included in the navigation data to identify a travel route taken by the user. In a further example the place module can receive sensor data from one or more sensors not shown that are coupled to the mobile computing system or the client device . The place module can determine a stop point for a travel route based on the sensor data and or navigation data. For example the place module can receive one or more of speed data indicating a zero speed GPS data indicating a current location and the time of the day engine data indicating engine on or off in a vehicle and or data indicating a parking break from one or more sensors and can determine a stop point as the current location. In some embodiments the place module can determine one or more interest places based on the travel route and or the one or more stop points. For example the place module can apply a clustering process to identify one or more interest places which is described below with reference to at least .

In some embodiments the place module can determine one or more landmarks associated with the travel route and or the one or more stop points. For example the place module can query the POI database to retrieve a list of landmarks within a predetermined distance from the travel route and or the one or more stop points. In some embodiments the place module can retrieve map data describing a map associated with the travel route and or the one or more stop points from the map database . The place module can determine one or more road names associated with the travel route and or the one or more stop points based on the map data. For example the place module can determine names for one or more first roads that form at least part of the travel route and names for one or more second roads that intersect the travel route. In another example the place module can determine names for one or more roads leading to the one or more stop points.

In some embodiments the place module can aggregate the interest places generated from one or more of the social network data the search data and or the navigation data. The place module can store the aggregated interest places the one or more landmarks and or the one or more road names in the storage device . In some embodiments the place module can generate a place vocabulary associated with the user using the aggregated interest places the landmarks and or the road names. For example the place module can populate a place vocabulary associated with the user using the interest places the landmarks and or the road names. For instance the place vocabulary can include for a given place known to the user items that are located nearby such as roads intersections other places etc. In some embodiments the place module can also determine a frequency of visits and or recency of visits to each custom place term in the place vocabulary based on the associated navigation data. For example the place module can determine a total number of visits and or a timestamp of the user s last visit to each of the interest places the landmarks and or the roads.

In some embodiments the place module can determine one or more interest places based on the state of the journey associated with the user. For example if the journey is a future journey and the state of the future journey includes an estimated route and or destination for the future journey the place module may determine one or more interest places as one or more points of interest on the route one or more road names on the route and or one or more landmarks near the destination etc. In another example if the journey is a current journey that the user is taking and the state of the current journey includes a current location of the user on the journey route the place module may determine one or more interest places as one or more landmarks roads etc. near the user s current location etc. This is beneficial as the place module can predictively provide the interest places that the user is likely most interested in seeing selecting from.

The place module may populate the place vocabulary using the one or more interest places and may update the one or more interest places and or the place vocabulary based on updates on the state of the journey. For example as the user travels on the journey route the place module may refresh the one or more interest places and or place vocabulary in near real time based on the updated state of the journey thus continuously suggest and or make available the freshest most relevant interest places to the user.

In some embodiments the place module can receive a provisioning trigger event from the registration module and can generate and or update the one or more interest places and or the place vocabulary in response to the provisioning trigger event. For example the place module can generate and or update the one or more interest places and or the place vocabulary before the start time or at the start time of the journey in response to the provisioning trigger event and thus allow the system to provide the user with the freshest set of interest place information at journey time.

In some embodiments the place module sends the place vocabulary associated with the user to the filter module . In additional embodiments the place module stores the place vocabulary in the storage .

The contact module can be software including routines for generating a contact vocabulary associated with a user. In some embodiments the contact module can be a set of instructions executable by the processor to provide the structure acts and or functionality described below for generating a contact vocabulary associated with a user. In some embodiments the contact module can be stored in the memory of the computing device and can be accessible and executable by the processor . The contact module may be adapted for cooperation and communication with the processor and other components of the computing device .

In some embodiments the contact module can receive contact data from a user s address book stored on the mobile computing system or the client device . The contact data describes one or more contacts associated with the user. For example the contact data includes contact names phone numbers email addresses etc. associated with the user s contacts. In additional embodiments the contact module can receive social graph data associated with the user from the social network server . The social graph data describes for example one or more family members friends coworkers and other acquaintance that are connected to the user in a social graph.

The contact module can generate a contact vocabulary associated with the user using the contact data and the social graph data. For example the contact module can populate a contact vocabulary associated with the user using a list of contacts described by the contact data a list of friends and or other users that are connected to the user in a social graph. The contact vocabulary can be a custom vocabulary that includes one or more contacts associated with a user and information about these contacts such as their physical addresses phone numbers current locations electronic mail addresses etc. For example a contact vocabulary includes one or more contacts from an address book one or more friends and other connected users from a social network. An example contact vocabulary is illustrated in FIG. A. In some embodiments the contact module can also determine a frequency of interaction and or recency of interaction with each contact represented by a custom contact term in the contact vocabulary. For example the contact module can determine a total number of interactions and or a timestamp of the user s last interaction with each of the contacts in the contact vocabulary.

In some embodiments the contact module can determine one or more contacts based on the state of the journey associated with the user. For example if the state of the journey indicates the journey is a trip to a restaurant for meeting some friends at dinner the contact module may populate the contact vocabulary with contact information associated with the friends before the start time or at the start time of the journey.

In some embodiments the contact module can receive a provisioning trigger event from the registration module and can generate and or update the place vocabulary in response to the provisioning trigger event. For example the contact module may refresh the contact vocabulary before the start time or at the start time of the journey in response to the provisioning trigger event.

In some embodiments the contact module can receive location data associated with the user and populate the contact vocabulary based on contact information associated with the location data. For example the location data may describe places associated with the user such as restaurants coffee shops stores etc. that the user visited before. The contact module can populate the contact vocabulary with contact information associated with the restaurants coffee shops stores etc. that the user visited before.

In some embodiments the contact module sends the contact vocabulary associated with the user to the filter module . In additional embodiments the contact module stores the contact vocabulary in the storage .

The content module can be software including routines for generating a content vocabulary associated with a user. In some embodiments the content module can be a set of instructions executable by the processor to provide the structure acts and or functionality described below for generating a content vocabulary associated with a user. In some embodiments the content module can be stored in the memory of the computing device and can be accessible and executable by the processor . The content module may be adapted for cooperation and communication with the processor and other components of the computing device .

In some embodiments the content module can receive content data describing one or more content items from the mobile computing system and or the client device . For example the content module can receive content data that describes one or more audio items and or video items played on the mobile computing system or the client device . Example content items include but are not limited to a song a news item a video clip an audio clip a movie a radio talk show a photo a graphic traffic updates weather forecast etc.

In some embodiments the content module can receive data describing one or more content sources that provides one or more content items to the user. Example content sources include but are not limited to a radio station a music application that provides music stream to a user a news application that provides news stream to a user a social application that provides a social stream to a user and other applications that provide other content items to a user.

In some embodiments the content module can receive data describing one or more content categories associated with one or more content items or content sources. Example content categories include but are not limited to a music genre e.g. rock jazz pop etc. a news category e.g. global news local news regional news etc. a content category related to travel information e.g. traffic information road construction updates weather forecast etc. a social category related to social updates e.g. social updates from friends family members etc. and an entertainment content category e.g. music TV shows movies animations comedies etc. .

The content module can generate a content vocabulary associated with the user using the content data the one or more content sources and or the one or more content categories. For example the content module can populate a content vocabulary associated with the user using a list of content items content sources and or content categories. The content vocabulary can be a custom vocabulary that includes one or more custom terms related to content items. For example a content vocabulary can include one or more content sources e.g. applications that provide content items to a user a radio station etc. one or more content items played by the user and one or more content categories. An example content vocabulary is illustrated in .

In some embodiments the content module can also determine 1 a frequency of interaction with an item corresponding to a custom content term in the content vocabulary and or 2 a timestamp of a last interaction with the item. For example the content module can determine a total number of times that a content item e.g. a song a video is played a latest timestamp describing when the content item was played how many times a content item was played over a particular period of time whether the content item was liked or disliked by the user when played e.g. using an Internet media service such as Pandora or Spotify a total number of times that an application e.g. a radio station is opened and a latest timestamp describing when the application was opened etc.

In some embodiments the content module can populate the content vocabulary based on the state of the journey associated with the user. For example if the state of the journey indicates the journey is a trip to attend a conference in a convention center the content module may populate the content vocabulary with news items publications etc. associated with the conference.

In some embodiments the content module can receive a provisioning trigger event from the registration module and can generate and or update the content vocabulary in response to the provisioning trigger event. For example the content module may refresh the content vocabulary before the start time or at the start time of the journey in response to the provisioning trigger event.

In some embodiments the content module sends the content vocabulary associated with the user to the filter module . In additional embodiments the content module stores the content vocabulary in the storage .

The registration module can be software including routines for cooperating with the registration application to register one or more custom vocabularies related to a user with the speech engine . In some embodiments the registration module can be a set of instructions executable by the processor to provide the structure acts and or functionality described below for cooperating with the registration application to register one or more custom vocabularies related to a user with the speech engine . In some embodiments the registration module can be stored in the memory of the computing device and can be accessible and executable by the processor . The registration module may be adapted for cooperation and communication with the processor and other components of the computing device .

A provisioning trigger event can be data triggering a provisioning service. For example a provisioning trigger event may trigger an application to charge a vehicle automatically before a start time of a future journey. In some embodiments the and or update of the place vocabulary the contact vocabulary and or the content vocabulary can be examples of the provisioning service and the provisioning trigger event may cause the place module to refresh the place vocabulary the contact module to refresh the contact vocabulary and or the content to refresh the content vocabulary before the start time or at the start time of a journey respectively. In this case the updated place vocabulary the updated contact vocabulary and the updated content vocabulary can be ready to use when the user starts the journey. In further examples provisioning can be continuous or triggered at various intervals e.g. autonomously or in response certain events . For instance provisioning trigger events may occur continuously and or at various intervals throughout a journey and the vocabularies may be refreshed responsively.

Example provisioning trigger events include but are not limited to an engine of a vehicle is just started a key on event e.g. a key being inserted into a keyhole of a vehicle a wireless key on event a key fob handshake event a remote control event through a client device e.g. the user remotely starting the vehicle using an application stored in a mobile phone etc. an event indicating the user is moving relative to a vehicle e.g. towards away from etc. arrival at a new and or certain location a change in the route on a current journey the start of a journey e.g. a vehicle is leaving a parking lot a predictive event e.g. prediction that a journey will start within a predetermined amount of time e.g. an estimated future journey will start within 15 minutes etc. Other provisioning trigger events are possible.

In some embodiments the registration module can receive sensor data from one or more sensors associated with the mobile computing system and can detect a provisioning trigger event based on the sensor data. For example the registration module can receive sensor data indicating a handshake process between a vehicle and a wireless key and can detect a provisioning trigger event as a key fob handshake event. In another example the registration module can receive navigation data indicating the user changes the travel route from a GPS application and can determine the provisioning trigger event as a change in the current journey route.

In some embodiments the registration module can receive data describing a future journey associated with a user from the journey state module and detect a provisioning trigger event based on the future journey. For example if the future journey is predicted to start at 8 30 AM the registration module can detect a provisioning trigger event that causes the place module to update the place vocabulary the contact module to update the contact vocabulary and or the content module to update the content vocabulary before the start time or at the start time of the future journey. The registration module can send the provisioning trigger event to the place module the contact module and or the content module .

In some embodiments the filter module can filter a place vocabulary a contact vocabulary and or a content vocabulary associated with a user and can send the filtered place vocabulary the filtered contact vocabulary and or the filtered content vocabulary to the registration module . The filter module is described below in more detail. The registration module can cooperate with the registration application to register the filtered place vocabulary the filtered contact vocabulary and or the filtered content vocabulary in the speech engine . For example the registration module can send the place vocabulary the contact vocabulary and or the content vocabulary to the registration application causing the registration application to register the place vocabulary the contact vocabulary and or the content vocabulary with the speech engine . In some embodiments the registration module registers the place vocabulary the contact vocabulary and or the content vocabulary with the speech engine in response to the provisioning trigger event.

The speech module can be software including routines for retrieving a result that matches a speech command. In some embodiments the speech module can be a set of instructions executable by the processor to provide the structure acts and or functionality described below for retrieving a result that matches a speech command. In some embodiments the speech module can be stored in the memory of the computing device and can be accessible and executable by the processor . The speech module may be adapted for cooperation and communication with the processor and other components of the computing device .

In some embodiments the speech module may receive a speech command from a user. For example the speech module can receive a speech command from a microphone not shown that is coupled to the mobile computing system or the client device . The speech module can determine one or more custom terms in the speech command based on one or more registered custom vocabularies associated with the user. For example the speech module can determine 1 one or more interest places landmarks and road names in the speech command based on the place vocabulary 2 one or more contacts in the speech command based on the contact vocabulary and or 3 one or more content sources content categories and or content items in the speech command based on the content vocabulary.

In some examples the speech module can retrieve a result that matches the speech command including the one or more custom terms from the storage . For example the speech module can receive a speech command that describes call Dad now from the user. The speech module can recognize a custom term Dad in the speech command based on the registered contact vocabulary and can retrieve a phone number associated with the custom term Dad from the storage device . The speech module can instruct the presentation module to call the retrieved phone number automatically for the user.

In some other examples the speech module can send the speech command including the one or more custom terms to the speech engine causing the speech engine to perform a search using the one or more custom terms and the speech command. The speech engine can retrieve a result that matches the speech command including the one or more custom terms from the search server . The speech engine can send the result to the speech module . For example assume the speech command describes find me a coffee shop close by home. The speech module can recognize a custom term home in the speech command based on the place vocabulary. The speech module can retrieve a home address represented by the custom term home from the storage and send the speech command including the home address represented by the custom term home to the speech engine . The speech engine can retrieve a result that matches the speech command including the home address represented by the custom term home from the search server and can send the result to the speech module . The result includes addresses and navigation instructions to coffee shops close by the home address.

In some examples assume the speech command describes find me a burger place near where Dad is. The speech module can recognize a custom contact term Dad in the speech command based on a contact vocabulary. The speech module can determine a location related to Dad with permission from Dad. For example the location associated with Dad can be Dad s physical home or work address stored in the contact vocabulary. In another example the location associated with Dad can be a current location where Dad s mobile phone is currently located. In yet another example the location associated with Dad can be a current location where Dad s vehicle is currently located. The speech module can send the speech command including the location related to the custom contact term Dad to the speech engine . The speech engine can retrieve a result that matches the speech command including the location related to the custom contact term Dad from the search server and may send the result back to the speech module . The result includes addresses and navigation instructions to burger places near where Dad is.

In some embodiments the speech module can receive a speech command from a user and send the speech command to the speech engine without determining any custom terms in the speech command. The speech engine can recognize one or more custom terms in the speech command by performing operations similar to those described above. The speech engine can retrieve a result that matches the speech command including the one or more custom terms from the search server . The speech engine can send the result to the speech module .

For example the speech module can receive a speech command that describes find me a coffee shop close by home from the user and can send the speech command to the speech engine . The speech engine can recognize a custom term home in the speech command based on the registered place vocabulary associated with the user and can retrieve data describing a home address represented by the custom term home from the speech library . The speech engine can retrieve a result that matches the speech command including the custom term home from the search server and can send the result to the speech module . The result includes addresses and navigation instructions to coffee shops close by the home address.

In another example the speech module can receive a speech command that describes open music app from the user and send the speech command to the speech engine where music app is the user s way of referencing to a particular music application that goes by a different formal name. The speech engine can recognize a custom term music app in the speech command based on the registered content vocabulary associated with the user. The speech engine can retrieve a result describing an application corresponding to the custom term music app from the speech library and send the result to the speech module . The speech module can instruct the presentation module to open the application for the user.

In some embodiments the speech module may receive a speech command indicating to search for one or more target places near close by or within a specified proximity of a known place such as a known location a known point of interest a known intersection etc. The terms near and or close by indicate the one or more target places may be located within a predetermined distance from the known location. The speech module can determine the one or more target places as places matching the speech command and within the predetermined distance from the known place identified in the speech command. For example assume the speech command describes to search for restaurants near an intersection that intersects a first road XYZ and a second road ABC. The speech module can recognize custom terms near and the intersection intersecting the first road XYZ and the second road ABC from the speech command. The speech module can instruct the speech engine to search for restaurants within a predetermined distance from the intersection.

In some embodiments the predetermined distance can be configured by a user. In some additional embodiments the predetermined distance can be configured automatically using heuristic techniques. For example if a user usually selects a target place within 0.5 mile from a known place the speech module determines that the predetermined distance configured for the user can be 0.5 mile. In some additional embodiments the predetermined distance can be determined based on a geographic characteristic of the known place identified in the speech command. For example a first predetermined distance for a first known place in a downtown area can be smaller than a second predetermined distance for a second known place in a rural area.

In some embodiments the speech module can receive a speech command from a user and can recognize one or more custom place terms from the speech command. The speech module can determine one or more physical addresses associated with the one or more custom place terms based on navigation signals e.g. location signals GPS signals received from a device associated with the user such as a mobile computing system e.g. a vehicle and or a client device e.g. a mobile phone . The speech module may instruct the speech engine to search for results that match the one or more physical addresses associated with the one or more custom place terms. For example assume the speech command describes find me a coffee shop near my current location or find me a coffee shop within a mile of my current location. The speech module can determine a custom place term my current location from the speech command where a physical address associated with the custom place term my current location is not a fixed location and depends on where the user is currently at. The speech module may determine a current physical address associated with the custom place term my current location based on location signals received from the user s mobile phone or the user s vehicle. The speech module may send the speech command including the current physical address associated with the user s current location to the speech engine so that the speech engine can search for coffee shops near e.g. within a predetermined distance or within a mile from the user s current location.

In some embodiments a speech command may simultaneously include one or more custom place terms one or more custom contact terms and or one or more custom content terms. For example a speech command describing find me restaurants near home and recommended by XYZ restaurant review app includes a custom place term home and a custom content term XYZ restaurant review app. The speech module can recognize the custom place term home and the custom content term XYZ restaurant review app in the speech command based on the place vocabulary and the content vocabulary. The speech module can determine a list of target places e.g. restaurants that are recommended by the XYZ restaurant review application and can filter the list of target places based on a physical address associated with the custom place term home. For example the speech module can determine one or more target places e.g. restaurants that are within a predetermined distance from the physical address associated with the custom place term home from the list of target places and can generate a result that includes the one or more target places and navigation information related to the one or more target places. The one or more target places satisfies the speech command e.g. the one or more target places are recommended by the XYZ restaurant review application and near the physical address associated with home .

In another example a speech command describing find me restaurants near Dad and recommended by XYZ restaurant review app includes a custom contact term Dad and a custom content term XYZ restaurant review app. The speech module can recognize the custom contact term Dad and the custom content term XYZ restaurant review app in the speech command based on the contact vocabulary and the content vocabulary. The speech module can determine a list of target places e.g. restaurants that are recommended by the XYZ restaurant review application. The speech module can also determine a location associated with Dad e.g. a physical address associated with Dad and stored in the contact vocabulary a current location associated with Dad s mobile phone or vehicle etc. . The speech module can filter the list of target places based on the location associated with the custom contact term Dad. For example the speech module can determine one or more target places e.g. restaurants that are within a predetermined distance from the location associated with the custom contact term Dad from the list of target places and can generate a result that includes the one or more target places and navigation information related to the one or more target places.

In some embodiments the speech module sends the result to the presentation module . In additional embodiments the speech module stores the result in the storage .

The presentation module can be software including routines for providing a result to a user. In some embodiments the presentation module can be a set of instructions executable by the processor to provide the structure acts and or functionality described below for providing a result to a user. In some embodiments the presentation module can be stored in the memory of the computing device and can be accessible and executable by the processor . The presentation module may be adapted for cooperation and communication with the processor and other components of the computing device .

In some embodiments the presentation module can receive a result that matches a speech command from the speech module . The presentation module can provide the result to the user. In some examples the result includes an audio item and the presentation module can deliver the result to the client device and or the mobile computing system causing the client device and or the mobile computing system to play the audio item to the user using a speaker system not shown . In some examples the presentation module can instruct the user interface module to generate graphical data for providing a user interface that depicts the result to the user. In some examples the result includes a contact that matches the speech command and the presentation module can automatically dial a phone number associated with the contact for the user. In some examples the result includes an application that matches the speech command and the presentation module can automatically open the application for the user.

The user interface module can be software including routines for generating graphical data for providing user interfaces to users. In some embodiments the user interface module can be a set of instructions executable by the processor to provide the structure acts and or functionality described below for generating graphical data for providing user interfaces to users. In some embodiments the user interface module can be stored in the memory of the computing device and can be accessible and executable by the processor . The user interface module may be adapted for cooperation and communication with the processor and other components of the computing device .

In some embodiments the user interface module can generate graphical data for providing a user interface that presents a result to a user. The user interface module can send the graphical data to a client device and or a mobile computing system causing the client device and or the mobile computing system to present the user interface to the user. Example user interfaces are illustrated with reference to at least . In some embodiments the user interface module can generate graphical data for providing a user interface to a user allowing the user to configure one or more custom vocabularies associated with the user. For example the user interface allows the user to add remove or modify custom terms in the one or more custom vocabularies. The user interface module may generate graphical data for providing other user interfaces to users.

The filter module can be software including routines for filtering one or more custom vocabularies associated with a user based on one or more filtering parameters. In some embodiments the filter module can be a set of instructions executable by the processor to provide the structure acts and or functionality described below for filtering one or more custom vocabularies associated with a user based on one or more filtering parameters. In some embodiments the filter module can be stored in the memory of the computing device and can be accessible and executable by the processor . The filter module may be adapted for cooperation and communication with the processor and other components of the computing device .

A filtering parameter can be data used to filter a custom vocabulary. For example a filtering parameter can be a place filtering parameter a contact filtering parameter a content filtering parameter or a combination of the foregoing. The place filtering parameter the content filtering parameter and the contact filtering parameter are described below in more detail. In some embodiments the place filtering parameter the content filtering parameter and or the contact filtering parameter can be hard coded and pre stored in the storage .

In some embodiments the filter module can receive a place vocabulary associated with a user from the place module . The filter module can receive data describing one or more place filtering parameters and filter the place vocabulary based on the one or more place filtering parameters as described below in more detail. A place filtering parameter can be data used to filter a place vocabulary. Example place filtering parameters include but are not limited to a user s current geographical location the time of the day a frequency of visits to a location corresponding to a custom place term e.g. a most frequently visited gas station a supermarket visited once a week etc. recency of visits to a location corresponding to a custom place term e.g. a recently visited restaurant and a place category that a custom place term is classified to e.g. a Japanese restaurant an Italian restaurant or a Mexican restaurant etc. .

In some embodiments the filter module can receive data describing a current geographical location associated with the user and or the time of the day. This data can be received from one or more of the first navigation application e.g. a mapping app a GPS app etc. the second navigation application e.g. a geolocation app a recommendations app a mapping app etc. or another entity of the system such as the social network server a location server of a mobile network not shown etc. The filter module can filter the place vocabulary based on the user s current geographical location and or the time of the day. For example if the time of the day is 8 20 AM the filter module can remove all the custom place terms corresponding to restaurants that do not provide breakfast options from the place vocabulary. In another example the filter module may configure a coverage range for the place vocabulary based on the user s current geographical location and may filter the place vocabulary to 1 retain custom place terms that correspond to locations within the coverage range e.g. interest places landmarks roads within the coverage range in the place vocabulary and or 2 remove custom place terms that correspond to locations outside the coverage range from the place vocabulary.

A coverage range can be a geographical area that covers locations corresponding to custom place terms included in the place vocabulary. For example the filter module can configure the user s current location as a center point and can configure the coverage range as a circular area determined by the center point and a coverage radius. An example coverage range is illustrated with reference to at least . In some examples a coverage range can be of a rectangular shape a square shape a triangular shape a circular shape or any other geometric shape. In some cases the shaped of the coverage range can be disjointed and or discontinuous. For instance the coverage range may include populated areas and exclude less or non populated areas.

In some embodiments the filter module can configure a size of a coverage area based on the user s current geographical location. For example the size in a downtown area e.g. an areas with a 1 mile radius covering 1 square mile etc. can be smaller than a coverage area in a suburban location e.g. an area having a 10 mile radius covering 10 square miles etc. . In some embodiments the filter module can determine a coverage area using a coverage radius which is come cases can be computed using heuristic techniques. In some embodiments the filter module can determine a coverage area and or radius based on a size of the place vocabulary. For example the filter module can configure a larger coverage radius area so that a larger coverage range is generated if the size of the place vocabulary is increased. The size of the place vocabulary may indicate for example a maximal number of custom place terms to be included in the place vocabulary. In additional embodiments a coverage radius area can be configured by an administrator of the computing device .

In some embodiments the filter module can filter the place vocabulary based on the frequency of the user s visits and or recency of those visits to the corresponding locations described by the custom place terms in the place vocabulary. For example the filter module can rank the custom place terms based on the frequency of the user s visits and or recency of those visits to the corresponding locations described by the custom place terms and can filter the place vocabulary to 1 retain custom place terms with highest rankings in the place vocabulary and or 2 remove other custom place terms from the place vocabulary. In another example the filter module can filter the place vocabulary to generate a filtered place vocabulary that includes custom place terms corresponding to the most frequently visited locations and or the most recently visited locations.

In some embodiments the filter module can retrieve data describing one or more user preferences from the storage and can filter the place vocabulary based on the one or more user preferences. For example assume the one or more user preferences describe one or more place categories preferred by the user. The filter module can filter the place vocabulary to 1 retain custom place terms associated with the one or more preferred place categories in the place vocabulary and or 2 remove custom place terms related to other non preferred place categories from the place vocabulary. For example if the user s preferred restaurant categories include Japanese and Italian restaurants the filter module can generate a filtered place vocabulary that includes Japanese and Italian restaurants.

In additional embodiments the filter module can filter the place vocabulary based on one or more of the user s current or recent geographical location the time of the day the user was at that location the frequency of the user s visits and or recency of those visits to locations corresponding to custom place terms in the place vocabulary the user preferences the user s friends preferences that the user frequently interacts with e.g. the user s close friends family colleagues etc. the size of the place vocabulary and or other contact content and or location related factors such as those discussed elsewhere herein.

In some embodiments the filter module can receive a contact vocabulary associated with a user from the contact module . The filter module can receive data describing one or more contact filtering parameters and can filter the contact vocabulary based on the one or more contact filtering parameters as described below in more detail. A contact filtering parameter can be data used to filter a contact vocabulary. Example contact filtering parameters include but are not limited to a social network contact category e.g. friends colleagues acquaintances restricted contacts etc. an address book category e.g. favorite contacts family members friends etc. a frequency of interaction with a contact e.g. a most frequently called contact a contact called once a week etc. and or recency of interaction with a contact e.g. a recently called contact a contact called one month ago etc. contacts content and or locations followed on a social network and or included in applicable social network content streams contacts having similar content event social etc. preferences determined from social network data preference data etc. etc.

In some embodiments the filter module can receive data describing one or more social network contact categories associated with contacts that are retrieved from the user s social graph. For example the filter module can receive data describing a group of friends a group of family members and or a group of acquaintances from the social network server . The filter module can receive data describing one or more address book categories associated with contacts that are retrieved from the user s address book. For example the filter module can receive data describing a group of the user s favorite contacts and or a group of most frequently called contacts from the user s address book. The filter module can filter the contact vocabulary based on the social network contact categories and or the address book categories. The filter module can receive data describing which contacts the user visits and or interacts e.g. socializes with most based on location data. For example the filter module can filter the contact vocabulary to 1 retain one or more of favorite contacts friends family members and or colleagues in the contact vocabulary and or 2 remove acquaintances stale contacts and or restricted contacts etc. from the contact vocabulary. As with the place and content vocabularies since the user s preferences for various contacts places and content may constantly change the filtering performed by the filter module can be performed dynamically e.g. instantaneously routinely e.g. by the second minute hour day etc. etc. to reflect those changing preferences reflect the user s current behavior.

In some embodiments the filter module can filter the contact vocabulary based on the frequency of the user s interactions and or recency of those interactions with contacts in the contact vocabulary. For example the filter module can rank the custom contact terms based on the user s interactions and or recency of those interactions with the corresponding contacts and can filter the contact vocabulary to 1 retain custom contact terms with rankings meeting a one or more predetermined criteria in the contact vocabulary and or 2 remove other custom contact terms from the contact vocabulary. The criteria may include a threshold number of contacts e.g. 25 50 100 a quality threshold etc. For instance each contact may be ranked using a quality score computed by or predetermined for by the filtering module for the contacts based on their relationship to the target user e.g. one or more of the filtering parameters discussed herein . This quality score may be compared to the predetermined criteria e.g. a quality threshold and the contacts may be included in the vocabulary if they meet this threshold. In another example the filter module can filter the contact vocabulary to generate the filtered contact vocabulary that includes custom contact terms corresponding to the most popular e.g. frequently interacted with most recently interacted with etc. contacts. For example the filtered contact vocabulary can include the most frequently and or recently called messaged e.g. via text email social and or visited contacts.

In additional embodiments the filter module can filter the contact vocabulary based on one or more of the one or more social network contact categories the one or more address book categories the size of the contact vocabulary the frequency quality and or recency of interaction with the contacts the communication mechanism used for the interaction e.g. call text email social network instant message microblog etc. . The size of the contact vocabulary indicates for example a maximal number of custom contact terms to be included in the contact vocabulary.

In some embodiments the filter module can receive a content vocabulary associated with a user from the content module . The filter module can receive data describing one or more content filtering parameters and can filter the content vocabulary based on the one or more content filtering parameters as described below in more detail. A content filtering parameter can be data used to filter a content vocabulary. Example content filtering parameters include but are not limited to the user s social network data that includes the user s engagement actions e.g. endorsements comments sharings favorites followings topic subscriptions etc. the user s messaging data e.g. email texts chats etc. the user preferences e.g. the user s ratings the type of content e.g. type of music news artists entities etc. interacted with by the user the frequency of interaction with an item corresponding to a custom content term e.g. how frequently a content item is played a radio station is listened to a topic or entity is searched for a feed is accessed etc. a timestamp of a last interaction with an item corresponding to a custom content term e.g. a recently played content item a recently used application how frequently a user interacted with a given content item over a given timeframe etc.

In some embodiments the filter module can filter the content vocabulary based on the frequency and or recency of the user s interactions with items corresponding to custom content terms in the content vocabulary. For example the filter module can rank the custom content terms based on the frequency and or recency of the user s interactions with items corresponding to the custom content terms and can filter the content vocabulary to 1 retain custom content terms satisfying one or more criterion e.g. a ranking level in the content vocabulary and or 2 remove other custom content terms from the content vocabulary as discussed in further detail above with reference to the contact vocabulary. In another example the filter module can filter the content vocabulary to generate the filtered content vocabulary that includes custom content terms corresponding to the items most frequently interacted or recently interacted with by the user and or the user s relevant contacts . For example the filtered content vocabulary can include the most frequently played songs the most frequently used applications the most recently accessed social streams and or the most recently played videos.

In some embodiments the filter module can receive the user s social network data including the user s engagement actions from the social network server . The filter module can filter the content vocabulary based on the user s social network data. For example the filter module can generate the filtered content vocabulary that includes custom content terms corresponding to items matching the user s endorsements sharings followings subscriptions and or comments published in a social network. In a further example the filter module can filter the content vocabulary to 1 retain a first radio station or song played thereby in the content vocabulary since the user has endorsed the first radio station or a song played thereby and or 2 remove a second radio station or song played thereby from the content vocabulary that was disliked by the user.

In some embodiments the filter module can retrieve data describing one or more user preferences e.g. the user s ratings for one or more items from the storage and can filter the content vocabulary based on the one or more user preferences. For example the filter module can rank custom content terms in the content vocabulary based on the user s ratings related to the custom content terms and can filter the content vocabulary to 1 retain the custom content terms satisfying a criteria e.g. a ranking threshold in the content vocabulary and or 2 remove other content custom items from the content vocabulary as discussed elsewhere herein. In another example the filter module can generate the filtered content vocabulary based on the user s ratings for the content sources or content categories so that the filtered content vocabulary includes content items from content sources or content categories with highest ratings e.g. ratings that meet or exceed a threshold defined as reflecting preferred content . For example the filter module can generate the filtered content vocabulary that includes the user s preferred music genre the user s preferred podcast sources content items related to the user s preferred music genre and content items from the user s preferred podcast sources etc.

In additional embodiments the filter module can filter the content vocabulary based on one or more of the user s social network data including the user s engagement actions the user preferences the frequencies of interaction with items corresponding to the custom content terms timestamps of last interactions with items corresponding to the custom content terms and or the size of the content vocabulary etc. The size of the content vocabulary can indicate for example a maximal number of custom content terms to be included in the content vocabulary.

In some embodiments the filter module filters the place vocabulary the contact vocabulary and or the content vocabulary based on one or more filtering parameters to restrict and or limit the sizes of the place vocabulary the contact vocabulary and or the content vocabulary. The filtering of the custom vocabularies is beneficial in numerous respects. For example for a custom vocabulary having a finite fixed size the filtering of the custom vocabulary can retain custom terms having most significance to the user in the custom vocabulary and can remove custom terms having least significance to the user from the custom vocabulary. In another example for a custom vocabulary having a variable size the filtering of the custom vocabulary can remove custom terms having least significance from the custom vocabulary and therefore reduce the size of the custom vocabulary. In either example the filtering of the custom vocabulary can prevent the system from slowing down in speech recognition and allow the system to achieve 1 faster speech recognition 2 improvement on accuracy of speech recognition 3 better learning of the user s preferences and 4 more personalized experience provided to the user. It should be understood that these benefits are non limiting and that other benefits and or advantages are also realized.

Referring to the controller can receive data describing one or more filtering parameters. For example the controller can receive data describing one or more content filtering parameters one or more place filtering parameters and or one or more contact filtering parameters. The filter module can filter the place vocabulary the contact vocabulary and or the content vocabulary based on the one or more filtering parameters. The registration module can register the filtered place vocabulary the filtered contact vocabulary and or the filtered content vocabulary with the speech engine .

Referring to the controller can receive social network data associated with a user from the social network server . The controller can receive search data associated with the user from the search server . The controller can receive navigation data associated with the user from another entity of the system such as the second navigation application stored on the mobile computing system and or the first navigation application stored on the client device . The place module can process the navigation data to identify a travel route and or one or more stop points. The place module can determine one or more interest places based on the social network data the search data the travel route the one or more stop points and or the state of the journey. The place module can determine one or more landmarks associated with the travel route the one or more stop points and or the state of the journey. The place module can determine one or more road names associated with the travel route the one or more stop points and or the state of the journey. The place module can populate a place vocabulary associated with the user using the one or more interest places the one or more landmarks and or the one or more road names responsive e.g. directly or indirectly to the provisioning trigger event.

Referring to the controller can receive data describing one or more place filtering parameters. The filter module can filter the place vocabulary based on the one or more place filtering parameters. The registration module can register the place vocabulary with the speech engine . The controller can receive a speech command from the user. The speech module can recognize one or more custom terms in the speech command based on the place vocabulary. The controller can send data describing the speech command including the one or more custom terms to the speech engine . The controller can receive a result that matches the speech command including the one or more custom terms. The presentation module can provide the result to the user.

Referring to the controller can receive contact data from a user s address book stored on one or more devices associated with the user such as the mobile computing system and or the client device . The controller can receive social graph data associated with the user from the social network server . The contact module can populate a contact vocabulary associated with the user using the contact data the social graph data and or the state of the journey responsive e.g. directly or indirectly to the provisioning trigger event. The controller can receive data describing one or more contact filtering parameters. The filter module can filter the contact vocabulary based on the one or more contact filtering parameters. The registration module can register the contact vocabulary with the speech engine . The controller can receive a speech command from the user.

Referring to the speech module can recognize one or more custom terms in the speech command based on the contact vocabulary. The controller can send data describing the speech command including the one or more custom terms to the speech engine . The controller can receive a result that matches the speech command including the one or more custom terms. The presentation module can provide the result to the user.

Referring to the controller can receive content data describing one or more content items from one or more devices associated with the user such as the client device and or the mobile computing system . The controller can receive data describing one or more content sources from one or more devices associated with the user such as the client device and or the mobile computing system . The controller can receive data describing one or more content categories from one or more devices associated with the user such as the client device and or the mobile computing system . The content module can populate a content vocabulary associated with the user using the content data the one or more content sources the one or more content categories and or the state of the journey responsive e.g. directly or indirectly to the provisioning trigger event. The controller can receive data describing one or more content filtering parameters. The filter module can filter the content vocabulary based on the one or more content filtering parameters. The registration module can register the content vocabulary with the speech engine . The controller can receive a speech command from the user.

Referring to the speech module can recognize one or more custom terms in the speech command based on the content vocabulary. The controller can send data describing the speech command including the one or more custom terms to the speech engine . The controller can receive a result that matches the speech command including the one or more custom terms. The presentation module can provide the result to the user.

A cluster can be a geographic region that includes one or more locations and or places visited by a user. For example one or more locations and or places visited by a user can be grouped together to form a cluster where the one or more locations and or places are located within a particular geographic region such as a street block. In some examples a cluster can be associated with an interest place that is used to represent all the places or locations visited by the user within the cluster. In some embodiments the center point of the cluster can be configured as an interest place associated with the cluster and the cluster is a circular area determined by the center point and the radius. In other examples a cluster can be of a rectangular shape a square shape a triangular shape or any other geometric shape.

The place module can determine whether the one or more locations visited by the user are within a cluster satisfying a configured cluster radius. If the one or more visited locations are within the cluster satisfying the cluster radius the place module may group the one or more visited locations into a single cluster and determine the center point of the cluster as an interest place associated with the cluster. For example the interest place associated with the cluster has the same longitude latitude and altitude as the center point of the cluster.

In some embodiments the place module can determine a plurality of locations visited by the user based on the navigation data associated with the user. The place module can group the plurality of locations into one or more clusters so that each cluster includes one or more visited locations. For example the place module can apply an agglomerative clustering approach a hierarchical clustering with a bottom up approach to group the plurality of locations into one or more clusters. The agglomerative clustering approach is illustrated below with reference to at least . The place module can generate one or more interest places as one or more center points of the one or more clusters. In some embodiments the one or more clusters have the same cluster radius. In additional embodiments the one or more clusters have different cluster radii.

Referring to a box depicts locations A B C D that are visited by a user. The place module can group the locations A B and C into a cluster that has a cluster radius . The place module can generate an interest place that is a center point of the cluster . Because the location D is not located within the cluster the place module can group the location D into a cluster . The cluster has a single location visited by the user the location D and the center point of the cluster is configured to be the location D. The place module can generate another interest place associated with the user that is the center point of the cluster .

A dendrogram corresponding to the clustering process illustrated in the box is depicted in a box . A dendrogram can be a tree diagram used to illustrate arrangement of clusters produced by hierarchical clustering. The dendrogram depicted in the box illustrates an agglomerative clustering method e.g. a hierarchical clustering with a bottom up approach . The nodes in the top row of the dendrogram represent the locations A B C D visited by the user. The other nodes in the dendrogram represent clusters merged at different levels.

For illustrative purposes only in some embodiments a length of a connecting line between two nodes in the dendrogram may indicate a measure of dissimilarity between the two nodes. A longer connecting line indicates a larger measure of dissimilarity. For example line is longer than line indicating the measure of dissimilarity between the place D and the node is greater than that between the place A and the node . In some examples the dissimilarity between two nodes can be measured using one of a Euclidean distance a squared Euclidean distance a Manhattan distance a maximum distance a Mahalanobis distance and a cosine similarity between the two nodes. Other example measures of dissimilarity are possible.

As illustrated in the box the dendrogram can be partitioned at a level represented by line and the cluster including the locations A B and C and the cluster including the location D can be generated. The partition level can be determined based at least in part on the cluster radius.

Referring to the user also visits a location E. A box depicts the cluster with the cluster radius and an updated cluster with a cluster radius . In some embodiments the cluster radius has the same value as the cluster radius . In additional embodiments the cluster radius has a different value from the cluster radius . The cluster includes the locations A B and C. The place module can update the cluster to include the locations D and E. The place module can update the interest place to be the center point of the updated cluster . A dendrogram corresponding to the box is illustrated in a box . In this example the dendrogram may be partitioned at a level represented by line and the cluster including the locations A B and C and the cluster including the location D and E can be generated. The partition level can be determined based at least in part on the cluster radius.

Referring to the filter module can determine a coverage radius for a coverage range . The filter module can configure the center point for the coverage range as a current location of a user. An example place vocabulary includes interest places Work and Doctor landmarks Landmark 1 Landmark 2 and Landmark 3 and roads Road 1 Road 2 Road 3 and Road 4 which are depicted in the graphic representation . The filter module can filter the place vocabulary based on the current location and the coverage range . Since the coverage range covers the interest place Work landmarks Landmark 1 and Landmark 3 and roads Road 1 and Road 3 the filter module can generate a filtered place vocabulary that includes the interest place Work landmarks Landmark 1 and Landmark 3 and roads Road 1 and Road 3. 

In the above description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the specification. It will be apparent however to one skilled in the art that the disclosure can be practiced without these specific details. In other implementations structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid obscuring the description. For example the present implementation is described in one implementation below primarily with reference to user interfaces and particular hardware. However the present implementation applies to any type of computing device that can receive data and commands and any peripheral devices providing services.

Reference in the specification to one implementation or an implementation means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the implementation is included in at least one implementation of the description. The appearances of the phrase in one implementation in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same implementation.

Some portions of the detailed descriptions that follow are presented in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on data bits within a computer memory. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are the means used by those skilled in the data processing arts to most effectively convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. An algorithm is here and generally conceived to be a self consistent sequence of steps leading to a desired result. The steps are those requiring physical manipulations of physical quantities. Usually though not necessarily these quantities take the form of electrical or magnetic signals capable of being stored transferred combined compared and otherwise manipulated. It has proven convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to these signals as bits values elements symbols characters terms numbers or the like.

It should be borne in mind however that all of these and similar terms are to be associated with the appropriate physical quantities and are merely convenient labels applied to these quantities. Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the following discussion it is appreciated that throughout the description discussions utilizing terms including processing or computing or calculating or determining or displaying or the like refer to the action and processes of a computer system or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and transforms data represented as physical electronic quantities within the computer system s registers and memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the computer system memories or registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices.

The present implementation of the specification also relates to an apparatus for performing the operations herein. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purposes or it may comprise a general purpose computer selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored in the computer. Such a computer program may be stored in a computer readable storage medium including but is not limited to any type of disk including floppy disks optical disks CD ROMs and magnetic disks read only memories ROMs random access memories RAMs EPROMs EEPROMs magnetic or optical cards flash memories including USB keys with non volatile memory or any type of media suitable for storing electronic instructions each coupled to a computer system bus.

The specification can take the form of an entirely hardware implementation an entirely software implementation or an implementation containing both hardware and software elements. In a preferred implementation the specification is implemented in software which includes but is not limited to firmware resident software microcode etc.

Furthermore the description can take the form of a computer program product accessible from a computer usable or computer readable medium providing program code for use by or in connection with a computer or any instruction execution system. For the purposes of this description a computer usable or computer readable medium can be any apparatus that can contain store communicate propagate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device.

A data processing system suitable for storing and or executing program code will include at least one processor coupled directly or indirectly to memory elements through a system bus. The memory elements can include local memory employed during actual execution of the program code bulk storage and cache memories which provide temporary storage of at least some program code in order to reduce the number of times code must be retrieved from bulk storage during execution.

Input output or I O devices including but not limited to keyboards displays pointing devices etc. can be coupled to the system either directly or through intervening I O controllers.

Network adapters may also be coupled to the system to enable the data processing system to become coupled to other data processing systems or remote printers or storage devices through intervening private or public networks. Modems cable modem and Ethernet cards are just a few of the currently available types of network adapters.

Finally the algorithms and displays presented herein are not inherently related to any particular computer or other apparatus. Various general purpose systems may be used with programs in accordance with the teachings herein or it may prove convenient to construct more specialized apparatus to perform the required method steps. The required structure for a variety of these systems will appear from the description below. In addition the specification is not described with reference to any particular programming language. It will be appreciated that a variety of programming languages may be used to implement the teachings of the specification as described herein.

The foregoing description of the implementations of the specification has been presented for the purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the specification to the precise form disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teaching. It is intended that the scope of the disclosure be limited not by this detailed description but rather by the claims of this application. As will be understood by those familiar with the art the specification may be embodied in other specific forms without departing from the spirit or essential characteristics thereof. Likewise the particular naming and division of the modules routines features attributes methodologies and other aspects are not mandatory or significant and the mechanisms that implement the specification or its features may have different names divisions and or formats. Furthermore as will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the relevant art the modules routines features attributes methodologies and other aspects of the disclosure can be implemented as software hardware firmware or any combination of the three. Also wherever a component an example of which is a module of the specification is implemented as software the component can be implemented as a standalone program as part of a larger program as a plurality of separate programs as a statically or dynamically linked library as a kernel loadable module as a device driver and or in every and any other way known now or in the future to those of ordinary skill in the art of computer programming. Additionally the disclosure is in no way limited to implementation in any specific programming language or for any specific operating system or environment. Accordingly the disclosure is intended to be illustrative but not limiting of the scope of the specification which is set forth in the following claims.

