---

title: Photoelectrochemically driven self-assembly method
abstract: Various technologies described herein pertain to assembling electronic devices into a microsystem. The electronic devices are disposed in a solution. Light can be applied to the electronic devices in the solution. The electronic devices can generate currents responsive to the light applied to the electronic devices in the solution, and the currents can cause electrochemical reactions that functionalize regions on surfaces of the electronic devices. Additionally or alternatively, the light applied to the electronic devices in the solution can cause the electronic devices to generate electric fields, which can orient the electronic devices and/or induce movement of the electronic devices with respect to a receiving substrate. Further, electrodes on a receiving substrate can be biased to attract and form connections with the electronic devices having the functionalized regions on the surfaces. The microsystem can include the receiving substrate and the electronic devices connected to the receiving substrate.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09548411&OS=09548411&RS=09548411
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 09548411
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131023
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 789 998 filed Mar. 15 2013 and entitled PHOTOELECTROCHEMICALLY DRIVEN SELF ASSEMBLY the entirety of which is incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was developed under contract DE AC04 94AL85000 between Sandia Corporation and the U.S. Department of Energy. The U.S. Government has certain rights in this invention.

Microsystems are commonly assembled utilizing pick and place techniques. Pick and place assembly oftentimes utilize robotic systems that mechanically move and place devices on a receiving substrate. However when assembling microsystems pick and place techniques may be time consuming e.g. due to serial assembly and may encounter difficulties due to adhesive forces between manipulator surfaces and the devices.

More recently various self assembly techniques have been employed for forming microsystems. Self assembly techniques are commonly carried out in one or more solutions e.g. devices and a receiving substrate are disposed in the solution s during assembly . Some conventional self assembly techniques utilize shape matching. Accordingly a first type of device and a first subset of receptor sites on the receiving substrate can have corresponding shapes a second type of device and a second subset of receptor sites on the receiving substrate can have corresponding shapes and so forth. Such techniques can rely on random movement of the devices in the solution s leading to the devices fitting in corresponding receptor sites on the receiving substrate that have matching shapes. Other conventional self assembly approaches utilize hydrophilic and hydrophobic surface interactions to drive self assembly. However conventional self assembly techniques are often time consuming e.g. self assembly may take on the order of hours for assembly to complete particularly if self assembly is based on random movement of devices fitting into receptor sites on the receiving substrate . Moreover yields of conventional self assembly techniques are commonly insufficient.

Described herein are various technologies that pertain to assembling electronic devices into a microsystem. The electronic devices include photovoltaic cells. The electronic devices can also have additional functionalities. The electronic devices can be disposed in a solution. Light can be applied to the electronic devices in the solution. The electronic devices can generate currents responsive to the light applied to the electronic devices in the solution. Moreover the currents can cause electrochemical reactions that functionalize regions on surfaces of the electronic devices. Further electrodes on a receiving substrate can be biased to attract and form connections with the electronic devices having the functionalized regions on the surfaces. Thus the microsystem can include the receiving substrate and the electronic devices connected to the receiving substrate.

In accordance with various embodiments light applied to the electronic devices in a solution e.g. the solution in which the electronic devices are functionalized a differing solution can cause the electronic devices to generate electric fields. The electric fields generated responsive to application of the light to the electronic devices can orient the electronic devices with respect to the receiving substrate and or induce movement of the electronic devices with respect to the receiving substrate. Thus the electric fields can enable orientation and or movement of the electronic devices to be controlled to facilitate assembling the electronic devices into the microsystem.

The above summary presents a simplified summary in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects of the systems and or methods discussed herein. This summary is not an extensive overview of the systems and or methods discussed herein. It is not intended to identify key critical elements or to delineate the scope of such systems and or methods. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

Various technologies pertaining to photoelectrochemically driven self assembly of microsystems are now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of one or more aspects. It may be evident however that such aspect s may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing one or more aspects.

Moreover the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or. That is unless specified otherwise or clear from the context the phrase X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is the phrase X employs A or B is satisfied by any of the following instances X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from the context to be directed to a singular form.

Referring now to the drawings illustrate an exemplary system for self assembling electronic devices into a microsystem. The electronic devices include photovoltaic cells. Moreover the electronic devices can additionally have other functionalities. Upon being assembled the microsystem can include a receiving substrate and electronic devices connected to the receiving substrate. The microsystem for instance can be a solar array. It is noted that many of the examples set forth herein describe one electronic device e.g. in a solution attracted to and or forming connections with the receiving substrate etc. . It is to be appreciated however that such examples are intended to be extended to scenarios that include more than one electronic device.

As illustrated in an electronic device is disposed in a solution . For instance the solution can be retained in a reaction chamber. Further a light source can apply light to the electronic device in the solution . The light source can be a broadband light source that can be produced by pass band optical filters for example. According to another example the light source can be a monochromatic source e.g. a laser .

The electronic device includes photovoltaic cells. In addition to inclusion of the photovoltaic cells the electronic device can be fabricated to provide additional functionality. According to an example the light from the light source can drive photoelectrochemical functionalization of regions on a surface of the electronic device . Additionally or alternatively the light from the light source can cause the electronic device to generate an electric field responsive to the light applied to the electronic device from the light source .

In the electronic device is disposed in a solution . According to an example the solution can be the solution of . Pursuant to another example the solution can differ from the solution of .

A receiving substrate is disposed in the solution in . Although not shown it is contemplated that the receiving substrate can similarly be disposed in the solution of as well as other Figures that do not depict the receiving substrate . The receiving substrate can include a receptor site having a shape that corresponds to a shape of the electronic device yet the claimed subject matter is not so limited. Moreover the receiving substrate includes electrodes . It is contemplated that the electrodes can be functionalized or plain.

As illustrated in the electronic device has functionalized regions on its surface. The functionalization of the regions on the surface of the electronic device can result from electrochemical reactions driven by the light from the light source applied to the electronic device as shown in however other techniques can additionally or alternatively be employed to functionalize the regions on the surface of the electronic device .

As part of self assembly of the microsystem the electrodes on the receiving substrate can be biased to attract and form connections with the electronic device . For instance the electrodes can be biased to attract and form connections with the electronic device having the functionalized regions on the surface.

As noted above in connection with the light applied to the electronic device by the light source can functionalize regions on the surface of the electronic device . More particularly as shown in the electronic device can be disposed in a solution e.g. the solution can be the solution of . The solution can be an ionic conductive solution.

Accordingly the light source can apply the light to the electronic device in the solution . The electronic device can generate current responsive to the light applied to the electronic device in the solution . Further the current can cause electrochemical reactions that functionalize regions on a surface of the electronic device . Various characteristics of the regions on the surface of the electronic device can be modified responsive to being functionalized. Examples of such characteristics include surface charge reactivity hydrophilicity hydrophobicity oleophilicity oleophobicity and so forth.

Functionalization of regions on the surface of the electronic device can be driven by photoelectrochemical reactions. The photoelectrochemically driven functionalization of regions on the surface of the electronic device can allow for simplified and versatile schemes for selectively assembling dissimilar components via self assembly. With the application of light from the light source n and p contacts e.g. electrodes of the electronic device can charge to different potentials e.g. p to positive n to negative which drive electrochemical reactions that passivate and or functionalize such regions on the surface of the electronic device and or insulating regions on the surface of the electronic device .

In fabrication of a self assembling microsystem functionalization and or passivation of surfaces can enable controlling the assembly of the microsystem. Regions e.g. the n contact the p contact portions of the insulating regions etc. on the surface of the electronic device can be selectively functionalized with different chemistries surface charges etc. Further wavelength of incoming light supplied by the light source can be controlled reactants in the solution can be selected and so forth which can enable self assembly to be more repeatable and flexible. Thus the specificity and driving forces behind the assembly can be more controllable when compared to conventional self assembly techniques used for fluidic self assembly. Moreover using the photoelectrochemical reactions to prepare the surfaces can be less costly compared to the conventional approaches.

Subsequent to functionalization additional reactions can be carried out in following rinse reaction steps which can add chemicals and or layers to differing regions of the electronic device . Moreover subsequent to functionalization further reactions can be driven by illuminating the electronic device with the light from the light source . For instance orientation and or movement of the electronic device in solution attachment of the electronic device to the receiving substrate and or strengthening a bond between the electronic device and other components e.g. the receiving substrate with the biased electrodes can be controlled responsive to the light supplied by the light source being applied to the electronic device .

Further as set forth herein in connection with it is noted that the light from the light source applied to the electronic device can cause the electronic device to generate an electric field. As shown in light from the light source can be applied to the electronic device to generate an electric field. depicts the electronic device being disposed in a solution e.g. the solution can be the solution of . By way of example the solution can be the solution of e.g. the solution can be an ionic conductive solution . Pursuant to another example the solution can differ from the solution of e.g. the solution can be a non ionic non conductive solution .

The electronic device can generate an electric field responsive to the light from the light source being applied to the electronic device in the solution . For instance the electric field can be internal to the electronic device . Additionally or alternatively an external electric field e.g. created within the solution can be generated by the electronic device responsive to the light applied from the light source . The electric field can orient the electronic device with respect to the receiving substrate . Additionally or alternatively the electric field can induce movement of the electronic device with respect to the receiving substrate .

By way of an example an external electric field e.g. created by a field generator can be in place within the solution . When the light source applies the light to the electronic device the electronic device can orient itself in a minimum energy configuration within the external electric field due to the electric field created by the electronic device . Accordingly the electronic device can be oriented and or moved responsive to application of the light by the light source . Additionally or alternatively the electric field generated by the electronic device responsive to application of the light by the light source can cause other electronic device s charged particles etc. within the solution to orient themselves and or induce movement of such other electronic device s charged particles etc.

According to various embodiments functionalization of regions on the surface of the electronic device and generation of the electric field by the electronic device can be carried out within a common solution e.g. the solution can be the same as the solution an ionic conductive solution . For instance the light source can apply the light to the electronic device in the solution and the electronic device can generate current responsive to the light applied by the light source . The current can cause electrochemical reactions that functionalize regions on the surface of the electronic device . The electrochemical reactions can further cause the electrodes of the electronic device to be passivated which can inhibit subsequent current flow. Upon the electrodes being passivated further electrochemical reactions may no longer occur responsive to the light being applied from the light source to the electronic device rather additional light applied by the light source to the electronic device can lead to voltage build up which can cause an electric field to be generated as described herein. Accordingly the electronic device can pass current while electron transport by the electrodes of the electronic device is possible and after electron transport is blocked e.g. by an insulator or some other layer being formed upon the surface of the electronic device charge resulting from the light being applied to the electronic device can generate an electric field. Thus pursuant to an illustration if the solution includes a plurality of electronic devices a subset of the electronic devices may generate current to drive electrochemical reactions responsive to applied light at a given time while a disparate subset of the electronic devices may concurrently generate an electrical field responsive to the light at such given time.

In accordance with other embodiments the functionalization of regions on the surface of the electronic device can be effectuated in the solution during self assembly. Thereafter the electronic device can be removed from the solution and later disposed in the solution e.g. the solution and the solution can differ . It is contemplated that other processing steps can be performed subsequent to removal of the electronic device from the solution and prior to disposing in the solution yet the claimed subject matter is not so limited. Upon being disposed in the solution the electric field by can be generated by the electronic device in the solution during the self assembly.

In yet other embodiments it is to be appreciated self assembly can include functionalizing regions on the surface of the electronic device utilizing the light from the light source without creating the electrical field with the electronic device responsive to light from the light source . According to other embodiments it is contemplated that self assembly can include creating the electric field with the electronic device utilizing the light from the light source without functionalizing regions on the surface of the electronic device responsive to light from the light source .

According to various embodiments the electronic devices on the fabrication surface can be released from the fabrication surface e.g. prior to functionalization of regions on surfaces of the electronic devices . As illustrated in the electronic devices released from the fabrication surface can be disposed in the solution . Accordingly light from the light source can be applied to the electronic devices in the solution subsequent to the electronic devices being released from the fabrication surface . The light can be applied from the light source to the electronic devices to at least partially functionalize regions on surfaces of the electronic devices .

According to other embodiments the electronic devices fabricated on the fabrication surface as shown in can be at least partially functionalized while still attached to the fabrication surface e.g. partially released . As illustrated in the electronic devices can be disposed in the solution e.g. the solution of while the electronic devices are attached to the fabrication surface . The light source can apply the light the electronic devices in the solution while the electronic devices are attached to the fabrication surface to at least partially functionalize the regions on the surfaces of the electronic devices . Subsequent to the application of the light from the light source to the electronic devices in the solution while the electronic devices are attached to the fabrication surface the electronic devices can be released from the fabrication surface as shown in . For instance the electronic devices released from the fabrication surface can be disposed in a solution e.g. the solution can be the solution or the solution .

According to yet other embodiments it is contemplated that the electronic devices can be partially functionalized while still attached to the fabrication surface by applying light as shown in . Thereafter the electronic devices can be released from the fabrication surface and disposed in the solution . The light source can apply light to the electronic devices in the solution as shown in to cause further functionalization of regions on the surfaces of the electronic devices .

Further as described above in connection with upon being functionalized the electronic device can be attracted to the receiving substrate . According to an example it is contemplated that characteristics of regions on the surface of the electronic device upon being functionalized can cause the electronic device to orient within the solution with respect to the receiving substrate and or induce movement of the electronic device with respect to the receiving substrate within the solution e.g. due to interaction of the electronic device as functionalized with the solution . For instance hydrophilicity hydrophobicity oleophilicity or oleophobicity of regions on the surface of the electronic device can cause such orientation and or movement of the electronic device with respect to the receiving substrate .

According to another example as illustrated in a field generator can supply an electric field e.g. an external electric field to the solution e.g. the solution of in which the electronic device and the receiving substrate are disposed. The external electric field supplied by the field generator can cause the electronic device to orient with respect to the receiving substrate and or induce movement of the electronic device with respect to the receiving substrate e.g. due to surface charge of regions on the surface of the electronic device . Moreover the electrodes on the receiving substrate can be biased to further attract and form connections with the electronic device . Thus the electric field generated by the field generator as well as the electrodes on the receiving substrate being biased can cause the electronic device to be attracted to the receptor site and or appropriately aligned with respect to the receptor site . Upon reaching the receptor site a connection can be formed between the electronic device and the receiving substrate .

Further as shown in the light source can apply light to the electronic device in the solution e.g. the solution while the field generator supplies the external electric field to the solution . In accordance with this example the light applied to the electronic device in the solution can cause the electronic device to generate an electric field. The electric field generated by the electronic device responsive to the light from the light source can cause the electronic device to orient itself in a minimum energy configuration within the external electric field supplied by the field generator . Additionally or alternatively movement of the electronic device can be induced by the external electric field generated by the field generator when the electronic device generates the electric field responsive to light applied by the light source . Accordingly the incoming light from the light source can cause the p and n regions of the electronic device to build charge and the surface charge previously imparted e.g. during the functionalization of the regions of the surface of the electronic device can assist in driving assembly of the microsystem.

According to another example as illustrated in the electronic device can be disposed in a two part solution e.g. the solution of . Interaction of the electronic device and the two part solution can cause the electronic device to orient at an interface between solutions in the two part solution e.g. due to hydrophilicity hydrophobicity oleophilicity or oleophobicity of regions on the surface of the electronic device . From the position at the interface between the solutions in the two part solution movement of the electronic device can be induced employing one or more of the approaches described herein e.g. external electric field application of light mechanically a combination thereof etc. .

Moreover according to various embodiments it is contemplated that mechanical guiding and or orienting of the electronic device within a solution can be employed as part of the assembly of the microsystem. For instance the electronic device can be mechanically guided to the electrodes on the receiving substrate . Additionally or alternatively the electronic device can be mechanically oriented with respect to the receiving substrate .

Once the electronic device is in contact with the electrodes on the receiving substrate further reactions can be affected to strengthen the connection between the electronic device and receiving substrate . It is contemplated that a chemical reaction can occur between the receiving substrate and the electronic device . For instance such reaction can be facilitated by the reactivity of the functionalized regions on the surface of the electronic device however the claimed subject matter is not so limited.

Additionally or alternatively as shown in the light source can apply light to the electronic device when the electronic device is connected to the receiving substrate to strengthen the connections between the electronic device and the receiving substrate . The light from light source can provide in situ modification after assembly of the microsystem. It is contemplated according to an example that the light source can provide higher photon flux for such modification after the electronic device is connected to the receiving substrate to strengthen the connection there between yet the claimed subject matter is not so limited. By way of example the light source can be a laser that can thermally drive firing of screen printed paste and or epoxy contacts yet the claimed subject matter is not so limited.

Pursuant to another example as depicted in the connection between the electronic device and the receiving substrate can be strengthened by supplying electrical current between the electrodes on the receiving substrate . A current source can supply the electrical current between the electrodes on the receiving substrate. The electrical current can further pass through the electronic device connected to the receiving substrate at the receptor site . Thus the current source can supply the electrical current between the electrodes to strengthen the connection between the electronic device and the receiving substrate subsequent to formation of the connection between the electronic device and the receiving substrate .

Reference is now made to which illustrates the light source being controlled by a wavelength controller . The wavelength controller can control a wavelength of the light emitted by the light source . Electronic devices that include photovoltaic cells formed from different types of material can absorb differing wavelengths of light. Accordingly functionalization and or assembly can be driven by selectively controlling wavelength delivered to the photovoltaic cells of the electronic devices. As shown in the light source can apply light to an electronic device and an electronic device . The electronic device and the electronic device can include photovoltaic cells made of differing materials e.g. silicon gallium arsenide etc. .

According to an example the wavelength controller can cause the light source to apply a first wavelength of the light to the electronic devices in a solution e.g. the solution of . The first wavelength of the light can cause selective functionalization of the regions on the surfaces of a first subset of the electronic devices e.g. the electronic device can be functionalized whereas the electronic device is not functionalized by the first wavelength of light . Thereafter the wavelength controller can apply a second wavelength of the light to the electronic devices in the solution . The second wavelength of the light can cause selective functionalization of the regions on the surfaces of a second subset of the electronic devices e.g. the electronic device can be functionalized whereas the electronic device is not functionalized responsive to application of the second wavelength of the light .

Similarly the wavelength of the light controlled by the wavelength controller can selectively control creation of electric fields by the electronic devices in the solution e.g. the solution of . For instance a first wavelength of light applied to the electronic devices in the solution can be applied by the light source as controlled by the wavelength controller . The first wavelength of the light can selectively cause a first subset of the electronic devices to generate electric fields e.g. the electronic device can generate an electric field whereas the electronic device does not generate an electric field responsive to the first wavelength of the light . Further a second wavelength of light can be applied to the electronic devices in the solution as controlled by the wavelength controller . The second wavelength of the light can selectively cause a second subset of the electronic devices to generate electric fields e.g. the electronic device can generate an electric field whereas the electronic device does not generate an electric field responsive to the second wavelength of the light .

Thus the wavelength controller can select a type of cell that is actively being functionalized and or assembled where electronic devices that include multiple types of photovoltaic cells can be in the solution . For example the wavelength controller can initially cause the light source to emit infrared light thus electronic devices that include photovoltaic cells having a lowest bandgap can be activated responsive to such light which can cause such electronic devices having photovoltaic cells with the lowest bandgap to be assembled. Next the wavelength controller can cause the light source to emit red light which can cause electronic devices that include photovoltaic cells formed of silicon to be assembled. Thereafter the wavelength controller can cause the light source to emit blue light which can cause electronic devices that include higher bandgap photovoltaic cells which do not absorb red or infrared light to be activated. It is to be appreciated however that the claimed subject matter is not limited to the foregoing example.

The electronic devices described herein can be microscale electronic devices or nanoscale electronic devices. depicts a cross sectional view of an exemplary electronic device e.g. the electronic device the electronic devices etc. . The electronic device includes a plurality of photovoltaic cells . Moreover the electronic device can be fabricated to provide additional functionality. While the electronic device of is shown to include three photovoltaic cells it is contemplated that the electronic device can include substantially any number of photovoltaic cells. The photovoltaic cells are separated by trenches . The trenches provide electrical isolation between the photovoltaic cells . Moreover the photovoltaic cells are electrically connected by metal lines . It to be appreciated that this photovoltaic cells can be electrically connected in series in parallel or a combination thereof e.g. the metal lines are depicted to electrically connect the photovoltaic cells in series in the illustrated example of .

Further the electronic device includes two electrodes . The electrode can be electrically connected to a first one of the photovoltaic cells e.g. the photovoltaic cell and the electrode can be electrically connected to a second one of the photovoltaic cells e.g. the photovoltaic cell . As depicted in the electrodes are on a common face of the electronic device yet according to other embodiments it is contemplated that electrodes of an electronic device can be on differing faces of such electronic device. The electrodes can have a certain shape or size to achieve a desired field or current when the electronic device has light applied thereto. Moreover an insulating layer can be formed upon the metal lines .

With reference to illustrated is a top view of an exemplary electronic device e.g. the electronic device the electronic devices the electronic device etc. . The electronic device has a hexagonal shape. Moreover the electronic device includes six electronic cells each having a triangular shape yet again it is contemplated that the electronic device can include more or less than six photovoltaic cells and shapes other than hexagonal. Further the photovoltaic cells are separated by trenches.

As depicted in the photovoltaic cells are electrically connected in series by metal lines . Moreover the electronic device includes electrodes on a common face of the electronic device .

While the photovoltaic cells are depicted as being electrically connected in series it is to be appreciated that the photovoltaic cells can alternatively be connected electrically in parallel for example. According to another example groups of the photovoltaic cells can be electrically connected in series and each of those groups can be connected electrically in parallel. Thus by way of illustration the photovoltaic cells can be electrically connected in series and the photovoltaic cells can be electrically connected in series. Further the series connected group of photovoltaic cells can be electrically connected in parallel with the series connected group of photovoltaic cells yet the claimed subject matter is not so limited.

Turning to illustrated is a top view of another exemplary electronic device . The electronic device has a differing electrode configuration for controlling electric fields and currents produced responsive to applied light. The electronic device includes an electrode and an electrode . While show two exemplary electrode configurations it is to be appreciated that substantially any electrode configuration for an electronic device is intended to fall within the scope of the hereto appended claims.

Further as used herein the term exemplary is intended to mean serving as an illustration or example of something. 

What has been described above includes examples of one or more embodiments. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable modification and alteration of the above devices or methodologies for purposes of describing the aforementioned aspects but one of ordinary skill in the art can recognize that many further modifications and permutations of various aspects are possible. Accordingly the described aspects are intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. Furthermore to the extent that the term includes is used in either the details description or the claims such term is intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as comprising is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim.

