---

title: Tactical maintenance curtain
abstract: A panel, a tactical maintenance curtain system, and a method includes a plurality of first panels, where each of the plurality of first panels are rectangular; a plurality of second panels, where each of the plurality of second panels are disposed between a pair of the plurality of first panels via lap joints, and where each of the plurality of second panels are rectangular; and at least two webbing straps containing each of the plurality of first panels and the plurality of second panels; where each of the plurality of first panels, the plurality of second panels, and the at least two webbing straps are constructed of a material providing suitable impact protection from bullets and blast fragments.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08919237&OS=08919237&RS=08919237
owner: The United States of America as Represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 08919237
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130520
---
The present invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for government purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefore.

The present disclosure relates generally to armor systems and methods. More particularly the present disclosure relates to a tactical maintenance curtain that forms a selectively configurable protective barrier.

Military personnel in combat zones require protection from enemy weapons. Further munitions and the like also require protection from weapon fire and the like. Conventionally military personnel are wearing protective body armor to reduce risk of injuries. Body armor is generally protecting clothing designed to absorb and or deflect slashing bludgeoning and penetrating attacks. In addition to military personnel body armor can be used to protect police forces private citizens and private security guards or bodyguards. Body armor can include metal or ceramic plates in battledress providing additional protection from rifle rounds. Metallic components or tightly woven fiber layers can give soft armor resistance to stab and slash attacks from a knife. Mail armor continues to be used as protection against stab slash attacks.

For personal body armor Kevlar is well known as a component of some bullet resistant vests and bullet resistant face masks. Kevlar is a product name and trademark for a para aramid synthetic fiber related to other aramids such as Nomex and Technora and was developed at DuPont in 1965. Various helmets and vests used by United States military forces since the early 1980s both have Kevlar as a key component as do their replacements. Other military uses include bullet resistant facemasks used by sentries. Kevlar in non woven long strand form is used inside an outer protective cover to form chaps that loggers use while operating a chainsaw. If the moving chain contacts and tears through the outer cover the long fibers of Kevlar tangle clog and stop the chain from moving as they get drawn into the workings of the drive mechanism of the saw. The latest Kevlar material that DuPont has developed is Kevlar XP. In comparison with normal Kevlar Kevlar XP is more light weight and more comfortable to wear as it is quilt stitch is not required for the ballistic package. Another fiber used to manufacture a bullet resistant vest is Dyneema which is a lightweight high strength oriented strand gel spun through a spinneret. Dyneema has an extremely high strength to weight ratio a 1 mm diameter rope of Dyneema can bear up to a 240 kg load is light enough that it can float on water and has high energy absorption characteristics. Dyneema is a polyethylene fiber.

However there can be situations where it is not feasible for personnel to wear protective body armor while still in harm s way in a combat area or the like. For example while in a combat zone personnel may need to perform maintenance in a small area which does not allow the personnel to wear protective body armor. One such example can include performing setup and maintenance on a Land Based Phalanx Weapon System LPWS . For example the LPWS is a Counter Rocket Artillery and Mortar abbreviated C RAM or Counter RAM that is a system used to detect and or destroy incoming artillery rockets and mortar rounds in the air before they hit their ground targets or simply provide early warning. AN LPWS can be mobile as well mounted for example on a flatbed trailer or the like. Disadvantageously maintenance and setup in an LPWS or other C RAM is in a small confined and unprotected area. As such it is not possible for field personnel to wear protective armor during these activities which could take several hours. Other equipment can also have these same limitations such as field based radar systems and other weapons.

Furthermore conventional body armor is not as effective with personnel performing maintenance and setup in dangerous areas. In particular the design of conventional body armor is meant to protect a user s chest. While performing maintenance and setup in dangerous personnel are in movement and exposed i.e. not standing straight with the chest exposed but exposing various body areas based on positioning.

Accordingly there also is a need for portable protective armor that is not necessarily worn but effective in protecting personnel as well as objects such as munitions in the field. Such portable protective armor would be easy to set up be portable in nature selectively configurable and configured to provide protection over a specific area.

In various exemplary embodiments portable protective armor is described that is not necessarily worn but effective in protecting personnel as well as objects such as munitions in the field. Such portable protective armor would be easy to set up be portable in nature selectively configurable and configured to provide protection over a specific area. The portable protective armor can be referred to herein as a tactical maintenance curtain that includes various panels constructed on poly Kevlar inserted into Kevlar webbing to form a selectively configurable protective barrier. The construction of the portable protective armor can include without limitation para aramid synthetic fibers polyethylene fibers lightweight high strength oriented strand gel spun through a spinneret and the like. The configurable protective barrier is used to protect personnel and or munitions. An exemplary application includes protecting personnel in battlefield situations where personnel cannot wear protective body armor such as while performing setup and maintenance on a Land Based Phalanx Weapon System LPWS or the like. The selectively configurable protective barrier can be formed in various configurations.

In an exemplary embodiment a panel includes a plurality of first panels wherein each of the plurality of first panels are rectangular a plurality of second panels wherein each of the plurality of second panels are disposed between a pair of the plurality of first panels via lap joints and wherein each of the plurality of second panels are rectangular and at least two webbing straps containing each of the plurality of first panels and the plurality of second panels wherein each of the plurality of first panels the plurality of second panels and the at least two webbing straps are constructed of a material providing suitable impact protection from bullets and blast fragments. Each of the plurality of first panels and each of the plurality of second panels can be selectively moveable based on the lap joints and the at least two webbing straps for positioning in a plurality of configurations. Each of the plurality of first panels can include a length substantially greater than a height and a width substantially less than the height and width.

Each of the plurality of second panels can include a length substantially greater than a height and a width substantially less than the height and width. Each of the plurality of first panels can be substantially wider than each of the plurality of second panels with about a same length. Each of the plurality of first panels the plurality of second panels and the at least two webbing straps can be constructed of any of para aramid synthetic fibers polyethylene fibers lightweight high strength oriented strand gel spun through a spinneret. The panel can further include a connector attached to the at least two webbing straps. The connector may be adapted to connect to a door of a field based system for protection of personnel performing maintenance and setup therein. The panel may further include a ratchet attached to the at least two webbing straps. The plurality of first panels may include N panels N being an integer and the plurality of second panels comprise N 1 panels. A length width and height of each of the plurality of first panels and the plurality of second panels may be selected such that the panel is portable configurable and capable of providing suitable impact protection from bullets and blast fragments.

In another exemplary embodiment a tactical maintenance curtain system may include a plurality of first panels where each of the plurality of first panels are rectangular a plurality of second panels where each of the plurality of second panels are disposed between a pair of the plurality of first panels via lap joints and where each of the plurality of second panels are rectangular at least two webbing straps containing each of the plurality of first panels and the plurality of second panels and a connector attached to the at least two webbing straps where the connector is adapted to connect to a door of a field based system for protection of personnel performing maintenance and setup therein where each of the plurality of first panels the plurality of second panels and the at least two webbing straps are constructed of a material providing suitable impact protection from bullets and blast fragments. Each of the plurality of first panels and each of the plurality of second panels may be selectively moveable based on the lap joints and the at least two webbing straps for positioning in a plurality of configurations. Each of the plurality of first panels may include a length substantially greater than a height and a width substantially less than the height and width.

Each of the plurality of second panels may include a length substantially greater than a height and a width substantially less than the height and width. Each of the plurality of first panels may be substantially wider than each of the plurality of second panels with about a same length. Each of the plurality of first panels the plurality of second panels and the at least two webbing straps may be constructed of any of para aramid synthetic fibers polyethylene fibers lightweight high strength oriented strand gel spun through a spinneret. The plurality of first panels may include N panels N being an integer and the plurality of second panels comprise N 1 panels. A length width and height of each of the plurality of first panels and the plurality of second panels can be selected such that the panel is portable configurable and capable of providing suitable impact protection from bullets and blast fragments.

In yet another exemplary embodiment a method includes providing a panel including a plurality of first panels where each of the plurality of first panels are rectangular a plurality of second panels where each of the plurality of second panels are disposed between a pair of the plurality of first panels via lap joints and wherein each of the plurality of second panels are rectangular and at least two webbing straps containing each of the plurality of first panels and the plurality of second panels wherein each of the plurality of first panels the plurality of second panels and the at least two webbing straps are constructed of a material providing suitable impact protection from bullets and blast fragments and configuring the panel at a location to provide the suitable impact protection.

Again in various exemplary embodiments portable protective armor is described that is not necessarily worn but effective in protecting personnel as well as objects such as munitions in the field. Such portable protective armor would be easy to set up be portable in nature selectively configurable and configured to provide protection over a specific area. The portable protective armor may be referred to herein as a tactical maintenance curtain that includes various panels constructed on poly Kevlar inserted into Kevlar webbing to form a selectively configurable protective barrier. The construction of the portable protective armor may include without limitation para aramid synthetic fibers polyethylene fibers lightweight high strength oriented strand gel spun through a spinneret and the like. The configurable protective barrier is used to protect personnel and or munitions. An exemplary application includes protecting personnel in battlefield situations where personnel cannot wear protective body armor such as while performing setup and maintenance on a Land Based Phalanx Weapon System LPWS or the like. The selectively configurable protective barrier may be formed in various configurations.

Referring to in an exemplary embodiment a schematic diagram illustrates a frontal view of a panel associated with a tactical maintenance curtain system. The panel is formed from a plurality of first panels that are interconnected by a second plurality of second panels . Each of the second plurality of second panels connect to lap joints of adjacent first panels . A lap joint is a technique of joining two pieces of material together by overlapping them. A lap may be a full lap or half lap. In a full lap no material is removed from either of the panels to be joined resulting in a joint which is the combined thickness of the two panels . In a half lap joint material is removed from one or both of the panels so that the resulting joint is the thickness of the thickest panels . In an exemplary embodiment the lap joint between the first panel and the second panel is a half lap joint with the joint having at least a thickness that is substantially the same as a thickness of either the first panel or the second panel . In this manner the panel is flexible for positioning in various configurations.

Despite being flexible the first panels and the second panels are each formed from a strong material capable of withstanding bullets blast fragments etc. In an exemplary embodiment the panels may include without limitation Kevlar para aramid synthetic fibers polyethylene fibers lightweight high strength oriented strand gel spun through a spinneret and the like. The panels may include a thickness that is thick enough for protection while thin enough for portability and storage. In an exemplary embodiment the panels may be about 1 to about 2 inches thick. In another exemplary embodiment the panels may be about 1.25 inches thick.

The first panels and the second panels with their associated lap joints are kept in place in the panel via webbing material . In an exemplary embodiment the webbing material is formed from similarly strong materials as the panels so as to prevent areas of weakness in the panel . Thus the webbing material can include without limitation Kevlar para aramid synthetic fibers polyethylene fibers lightweight high strength oriented strand gel spun through a spinneret and the like. The webbing material include openings through which each of the panels is slid therethrough and accordingly held in place. Thus the panel may be selectively configured in different shapes based on the lap joints and the webbing material .

In an exemplary embodiment the panel may include at least two webbing materials although more may be used in other implementations. In an exemplary embodiment the panel may include at least two of the panels and at least three of the panels . In this manner the panel may be used in a specific exemplary embodiment for the LPWS protection described herein. In other exemplary embodiments the panel may have arbitrary number of panels . The panel may include N panels and correspondingly includes N 1 panels where N is an integer. Here the panel may be used in a universal configuration with is also described herein.

Each of the first panels and the second panels are substantially rectangular in shape with a length significantly larger than a height. In this manner the panel may form a larger rectangle that is flexible for forming a variety of configurations. In a specific exemplary embodiment the first panels are about 6 2 in dimensions and the second panels are about 6 4 in dimensions. In another specific exemplary embodiment the first panels are about 6 7 in dimensions and the second panels are about 6 4 in dimensions. Of course the panel contemplates other dimensions as appropriate for a specific application.

The webbing material may include hooks or other types of attachment mechanisms. Additionally the webbing material may connect to the other types of attachment mechanisms for various different configurations. In an exemplary embodiment the panel is contemplated for use with a LPWS as a tactical maintenance curtain for performing setup and maintenance thereon. For the LPWS application the panel requires some unique cuts due to the shape of an open barbette door. Specifically here the panel is placed over the open barbette door of an LPWS while maintenance or setup is performed providing protection without requiring body armor. The hooks are configured to hang or connect to the open barbette door.

Referring to in an exemplary embodiment a schematic side view illustrates the panel in the LPWS application. Specifically in the LPWS application the panel can include three of the first panels two of the second panels and two of the webbing material along with the hooks . illustrates the panel showing only the first panels in the LPWS application. The panels slide into eyelets of the webbing material and the hooks go over a top door of the LPWS creating a saddle bag effect to hold the panels up.

Referring to in exemplary embodiments various schematic views illustrate the panel in various versatile configurations. is a schematic view of the panel in an arch design. is a schematic view of the panel in a circular design and is a schematic view of the panel in a rectangular design. Those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize with the lap joints webbing material and an arbitrary number of panels that the Tactical Maintenance Curtain TMC is designed to be very versatile for a variety of field applications. In these more universal designs the panel can include an arbitrary number of 7 6 panels with the total number determined by the specific need and use an arbitrary number of 4 6 panels with the total number determined by the specific need and use and an arbitrary length of Kevlar webbing material with eyelets to insert the 7 6 panels and a smaller eyelets to hold the 4 6 panels.

The arch design is configured to provide fort protection and protected triage cover. Here the 7 6 panels are secured together with the webbing material with a ratchet at the end to secure the structures tight and the 4 6 panels will overlap joints of the 7 6 panels. A similar design with the ratchet can be used in the circular design to protect a 360 degree area. Also a similar design may be used with the rectangular design.

Although the present disclosure has been illustrated and described herein with reference to exemplary embodiments and specific examples thereof it will be readily apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that other embodiments and examples may perform similar functions and or achieve like results. All such equivalent embodiments and examples are within the spirit and scope of the present disclosure are contemplated thereby and are intended to be covered by the following claims.

Finally any numerical parameters set forth in the specification and attached claims are approximations for example by using the term about that may vary depending upon the desired properties sought to be obtained by the present invention. At the very least and not as an attempt to limit the application of the doctrine of equivalents to the scope of the claims each numerical parameter should at least be construed in light of the number of significant digits and by applying ordinary rounding.

