---

title: Multi-tenant service management in a VoIP network
abstract: A system and method for aggregating services within a VoIP network. The VoIP network comprises a plurality of vendors, resellers, and users, and each reseller aggregates a plurality of services from the vendors and other resellers. Each type of service may be organized into two or more tiers, with each tier including one or more services. Each tier is presented to downstream users as a single price and is re-branded with the reseller's branding elements. Downstream users can select a desired service from a given tier, and the tier may automatically select a service that maximizes the profit for the reseller.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09210276&OS=09210276&RS=09210276
owner: AQUIFER INNOVATIONS, LLC
number: 09210276
owner_city: Houston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130812
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 600 844 entitled MULTI TENANT SERVICE MANAGEMENT IN A VOIP NETWORK filed Aug. 31 2012 the entirety of which is incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates generally to Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP communications and in particular to managing telephone numbers and other services in a VoIP network platform.

Many enterprises and consumers are replacing their traditional analog telephone service with VoIP service. VoIP offers many advantages over traditional analog telephone service including cost savings flexibility advanced features and integration with database and customer relationship management CRM software. A multitude of VoIP vendors have emerged to supply customers with the software and hardware components necessary to provide VoIP service. As a result end users have a wide variety of VoIP suppliers to choose from when purchasing software and hardware equipment. Also VoIP communication solution providers have a wide variety of VoIP suppliers to choose from when provisioning hardware and software equipment to their end users.

As is often the case in heterogeneous VoIP networks various resellers often have a variety of different relationships and interfaces to manage and these interfaces may resemble a swivel chair approach in which each interface is unique and handled separately. To manage each relationship or service within a specific platform a reseller may have to switch between different software interfaces and or applications for each separate service provided within the VoIP network platform. As used herein a VoIP network platform may be broadly defined as a network infrastructure and user equipment capable of carrying voice signals as packetized data over an Internet Protocol IP network. A VoIP network platform may comprise at least the following hardware and software components and features feature servers softswitches session initiation protocol SIP trunks enhanced 911 E911 direct inward dialing DID billing services least cost routing PBX equipment and user devices. For each of these components a VoIP provider may have many different suppliers to choose from when building its VoIP communication platform.

For example a reseller may be tasked with selecting and activating a telephone number from one of many different telephone number providers. Providing interfaces to each of the different telephone number suppliers and managing the total inventory of telephone numbers may be a challenge for VoIP resellers. Therefore there exists a need in the art for methods and mechanisms to aggregate and resell VoIP services in a VoIP network platform.

In various embodiments a first reseller may be connected to multiple telephone number vendors and or resellers and the first reseller may execute a multi tenant system management software application configured to aggregate a plurality of telephone numbers from these suppliers. The software application may be configured to allow the first reseller to group the available telephone numbers into separate pricing tiers. Then the first reseller may present these separate tiers to their customers and downstream resellers. The telephone numbers provided for sale by the first reseller may be re branded with the first reseller s branding elements.

Each tier group may have a single price that applies to all of the telephone numbers being resold in the tier group. A lower level reseller or end user coupled to the first reseller may select from the first reseller s tier groups. The software application may be configured to select from within the tier group in order to maximize the profit generated for the first reseller. For example while each of the telephone numbers in a given tier group may be sold at a first price the cost of telephone numbers to the first reseller from a variety of sources may vary over a wide range. The software application may be configured to automatically select from the cheapest telephone numbers first so as to maximize the profit margin for the first reseller.

In one embodiment a second reseller may be connected downstream from the first reseller in the VoIP network platform. The second reseller may create their own tiers of phone numbers to sell to their own end users and downstream resellers. These sets of tiers may be different from the tiers of phone numbers created by the first reseller. Also the tiers may be set up so that if a downstream user or reseller of the second reseller selects a telephone number from a given tier then the tier may be set up by default to select from the available phone numbers in a way that maximizes the margin for the second reseller. Furthermore more resellers may be positioned below the second reseller and each reseller may aggregate telephone numbers into separate tiers that are unique to each specific reseller.

In one embodiment historical data may be generated and tracked for a plurality of telephone numbers that are utilized in the VoIP network platform. Each telephone number may a variety of attributes associated with the telephone number and the VoIP service provided to the specific telephone number may be based on multiple relationships with other service providers. For example a given telephone number may have a price an E911 association reseller association SIP trunk vendor as well as other relationships and attributes. Each of these relationships and attributes may be tracked for each telephone number in the VoIP system and any time a change is detected then a status of the telephone number may be stored in a versioning database.

These and other features and advantages will become apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art in view of the following detailed descriptions of the approaches presented herein.

In the following description numerous specific details are set forth to provide a thorough understanding of the methods and mechanisms presented herein. However one having ordinary skill in the art should recognize that the various embodiments may be practiced without these specific details. In some instances well known structures components signals computer program instructions and techniques have not been shown in detail to avoid obscuring the approaches described herein. It will be appreciated that for simplicity and clarity of illustration elements shown in the figures have not necessarily been drawn to scale. For example the dimensions of some of the elements may be exaggerated relative to other elements.

This specification includes references to one embodiment . The appearance of the phrase in one embodiment in different contexts does not necessarily refer to the same embodiment. Particular features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner consistent with this disclosure. Furthermore as used throughout this application the word may is used in a permissive sense i.e. meaning having the potential to rather than the mandatory sense i.e. meaning must . Similarly the words include including and includes mean including but not limited to.

Terminology. The following paragraphs provide definitions and or context for terms found in this disclosure including the appended claims 

 Comprising. This term is open ended. As used in the appended claims this term does not foreclose additional structure or steps. Consider a claim that recites A system comprising a server . . . . Such a claim does not foreclose the system from including additional components e.g. a network a reseller a vendor .

 Configured To. Various units circuits or other components may be described or claimed as configured to perform a task or tasks. In such contexts configured to is used to connote structure by indicating that the units circuits components include structure e.g. circuitry that performs the task or tasks during operation. As such the unit circuit component can be said to be configured to perform the task even when the specified unit circuit component is not currently operational e.g. is not on . The units circuits components used with the configured to language include hardware for example circuits memory storing program instructions executable to implement the operation etc. Reciting that a unit circuit component is configured to perform one or more tasks is expressly intended not to invoke 35 U.S.C. 112 sixth paragraph for that unit circuit component. Additionally configured to can include generic structure e.g. generic circuitry that is manipulated by software and or firmware e.g. an FPGA or a general purpose processor executing software to operate in manner that is capable of performing the task s at issue. Configured to may also include adapting a manufacturing process e.g. a semiconductor fabrication facility to fabricate devices e.g. integrated circuits that are adapted to implement or perform one or more tasks.

 First Second etc. As used herein these terms are used as labels for nouns that they precede and do not imply any type of ordering e.g. spatial temporal logical etc. . For example for a VoIP network having five resellers the terms first and second resellers can be used to refer to any two of the five resellers.

 Based On. As used herein this term is used to describe one or more factors that affect a determination. This term does not foreclose additional factors that may affect a determination. That is a determination may be solely based on those factors or based at least in part on those factors. Consider the phrase determine A based on B. While B may be a factor that affects the determination of A such a phrase does not foreclose the determination of A from also being based on C. In other instances A may be determined based solely on B.

Referring now to one embodiment of a portion of a VoIP network platform is shown. VoIP phone and wireless phone may be configured to originate VoIP calls. VoIP phone and wireless phone are representative of any number of VoIP phones and wireless phones respectively which may be part of a VoIP network platform. VoIP phone and wireless phone are connected to internet protocol IP network through which they are connected to feature server . IP network may be a session initiation protocol SIP trunk or any other type of IP connection link or network.

Feature server may provide a plurality of features for calls routed to and from VoIP phone and wireless phone . The plurality of features may comprise auto attendant voicemail call forwarding click to call find me follow me caller ID speech recognition integrated voice response text messaging short message service SMS do not disturb shared call appearance shared line appearance simultaneous ring busy lamp field line state monitoring and others. The term call may refer to a voice call or to a multimedia call containing video audio text and or other data. Also call may refer to a connection between two users or to a connection between a plurality of users like in a multi party conference call.

Feature server is also connected to softswitch through which calls may be terminated and routed through the internet . In one embodiment feature server and softswitch may be combined into one unit. In another embodiment feature server may incorporate all of the functionality of softswitch . In a further embodiment softswitch may incorporate all of the functionality of feature server . Once calls are routed to the internet the calls may be routed to the public switched telephone network PSTN to other softswitches or to other networks or routers not shown in .

VoIP phones and are connected to IP network through which they are connected to feature server . Feature server is also connected to softswitch through which calls may be terminated and routed to the internet . Softphones and are connected to Private Branch Exchange PBX through which they are connected to IP network . Softphones and may be software applications installed on networked computers that are equipped with microphones and speakers. PBX may be representative of any number of PBX s which may be connected to any number of IP networks within the VoIP network platform. Calls originating from softphones and may be routed from IP network to feature server . Feature server may provide a plurality of features for calls routed to and from softphones and . Feature server is also connected to softswitch through which calls may be terminated and routed to the internet .

Reseller is also connected to the internet and reseller is representative of any number of resellers or VoIP providers that may sell or provide various VoIP services within the VoIP network. Reseller may connect to cloud software as a service SaaS via internet and reseller may access a VoIP system management software application not shown in cloud SaaS . The VoIP system management software application may allow reseller to configure the components of the VoIP network platform to route and treat calls for the users. The VoIP system management software application may also allow reseller to interface to various vendors suppliers and other resellers via built in application programming interfaces APIs of the application. illustrates one embodiment of a VoIP network platform. Other configurations of VoIP network platforms consisting of other types of components and devices are possible and are contemplated.

Turning now to a block diagram of one embodiment of a reseller running a SaaS application is shown. Reseller may connect to VoIP system management SaaS via the internet not shown and reseller may run a virtual instance of SaaS . Reseller may manage the virtual project partitioned from the multi tenant VoIP system management software application executing in the cloud. Other resellers may also access VoIP system management SaaS and manage their own individual virtual projects.

The virtual instance of the software application may allow reseller to aggregate services from a wide variety of providers of different VoIP services. As shown in these aggregated services include SIP trunking hosted PBX telephone numbers and other services . These services are shown within the virtual project bubble of reseller to indicate that these services are integrated into the virtual project of reseller . Other services are representative of any number of other services e.g. voicemail video conferencing storage E911 . Reseller may also have a plurality of local proprietary interfaces to its own VoIP services that may be aggregated with the other VoIP services accessed through SaaS .

Each service may be grouped into one or more tiers and each of the services of a single tier may be priced at the same level. These tiers may be presented to users and resellers who are downstream purchasers of VoIP services from reseller . The tiers that are shown are representative of any number of tiers that may be utilized for each service. For example SIP trunking services may be split up into three tiers hosted PBX services may be split up into three tiers and telephone numbers may be split up into two tiers and . Each service of other services may also be organized into two or more tiers.

In one embodiment reseller may also utilize the multi tenant SaaS residing in the cloud to add third party services to its various service offerings and white brand and sell those third party services as if they were their own. In one embodiment reseller may connect to the multi tenant SaaS via a portal application. The third party services may be added to the various tiers in any suitable fashion determined by reseller . All of the services including the local and the third party services may be aggregated using the SaaS and provided to users and resellers . Preexisting workflows and or newly generated workflows for a variety of tasks and functions may also be aggregated within the VoIP network using the SaaS . Resellers are representative of any number of resellers connected downstream from reseller that utilize various VoIP services from reseller . It is noted that resellers may also be coupled to other vendors using the same multi tenant SaaS utilized by reseller .

In the embodiment shown in reseller may utilize the multi tenant SaaS to interface to external vendors such as SIP trunking vendors hosted PBX vendors and telephone number vendors . The multi tenant SaaS may include an application programming interface API to each of the vendors. The API s may be built in to the SaaS and reseller may be able to utilize these APIs for interfacing to these various external vendors of VoIP services in a unified software environment. In various embodiments SaaS provides a common interface for accessing and utilizing the various distinct APIs that may be needed for each of vendors and . For example SaaS may include translation mechanisms software and or hardware to translate the various APIs to a common API. In this manner reseller has a single common interface which provides simplified management of the various services provided by the vendors.

The underlying SaaS and database may utilize a multi tenant architecture for multiple resellers vendors and users. The interface to the SaaS and database allows for ease of aggregation of the various VoIP services that are being provided in the VoIP network. For example the SaaS may be configured to allow telephone number origination services to be aggregated. Through the use of an interface to the SaaS resellers may be able to manage telephone number activation for their downstream customers for any telephone number sourced from any of their upstream vendors or resellers.

Referring now to one embodiment of the aggregation of telephone numbers provided by a variety of vendors and resellers is shown. Reseller may combine telephone numbers from upstream providers tiers into a common tier within its platform and reseller may resell the common tier as a single priced tier to its customers and to downstream resellers. Also reseller may prioritize the order in which telephone numbers are selected from a given tier to maximize margin. Each reseller shown in may be configured to execute or otherwise access a unified software application for aggregating telephone numbers from a variety of vendors and resellers. In one embodiment the unified software application may be a multi tenant SaaS that is accessed through a web portal.

Downstream resellers may also be coupled to reseller for obtaining telephone numbers. For example reseller may combine telephone numbers obtained from tiers and or tier of reseller with other telephone numbers obtained from other vendors into a single tier . Tier may also be created in a similar fashion by combining various telephone numbers from the tiers of upstream resellers and vendors.

Vendor may group telephone numbers into three separate tiers and . Tiers are representative of any number of tiers which may be utilized by vendor . As shown tier may include telephone numbers and and any number of other telephone numbers. Similarly tiers and may include any number of telephone numbers. The reasons for grouping together telephone numbers into tiers may be based on any of various types of criteria e.g. pricing geographical location toll free numbers .

Similarly vendor may group its supply of telephone numbers into at least three separate tiers and . Also vendor may group its inventory of telephone numbers into three separate tiers and . Reseller may also be coupled to any number of other vendors not shown in . Also one or more of vendors and may also be resellers of telephone numbers and or other VoIP services.

As shown in reseller may aggregate telephone numbers from tiers and into tier . Also reseller may aggregate telephone numbers from tiers and into tier . Reseller may make tiers and available to downstream users and resellers. Tiers and may be white branded such that the telephone numbers in tiers and may be rebranded by reseller and appear as though they are sourced directly from reseller .

This pattern may continue on down through the lower levels of the VoIP network platform. Reseller may be coupled to reseller and other vendors . Other vendors are representative of any number of vendors which may supply telephone numbers to reseller . Tiers and may be created by grouping together telephone numbers from any number of vendors and resellers. Reseller may aggregate a plurality of telephone numbers from a plurality of resellers and vendors and then resell these telephone numbers in a white label fashion through a single interface. Downstream resellers e.g. reseller that are coupled to reseller may also aggregate and resell telephone numbers in a single interface.

Although not shown in reseller may be coupled to vendors and and tiers and may include various telephone numbers from vendors and . For example reseller may have an alternate connection either direct or indirect shown as a dashed line to vendor and telephone number of tier may be available through this connection. Also reseller is coupled to tier of reseller which also includes telephone number . In this case there are two paths through which telephone number may be made available to reseller . In various embodiments these two paths either logical and or physical may correspond to different price points and the software application may be configured to automatically select the path for telephone number that gives the lowest price to reseller or otherwise chooses the path which maximizes some benefit to the reseller whether cost or otherwise . This concept may be applied for other resellers as well and with many interconnections between resellers and vendors many telephone numbers may be obtained by a particular reseller through two or more paths. The software application may be configured to select the cheapest available path from the multiple paths that are possible for a specific telephone number.

In some embodiments the myriad interconnections between resellers and vendors may make it possible for a telephone numbers to return back to the reseller that originally sold the telephone number into the VoIP network. In these cases the software application may be configured to prevent loop back such that a given telephone number may be prevented from being sold back to a reseller or vendor that previously sold the given telephone number.

Any reseller may utilize the unified software application with pre integrated APIs to a variety of vendors and resellers and this software application may also allow a reseller to manually load an inventory of telephone numbers and pricing information into the software application. The reseller may then aggregate the telephone numbers from a variety of sources and then organize these telephone numbers into pricing groups and the pricing groups may be sold to downstream customers as the reseller s own telephone numbers.

The connections shown in are not the only connections that may be made between the various entities. For example although not shown in vendors and may be coupled to additional resellers and users besides just reseller . Also each reseller shown in may be connected to any number of vendors and other resellers. Also each reseller shown in may be connected to any number of other vendors e.g. E911 SIP trunking least cost routing billing services providing other services besides just telephone numbers. In some embodiments vendors and may also supply additional VoIP services in addition to telephone numbers.

Turning now to a block diagram of one embodiment of a VoIP system management software application is shown. VoIP system management software application is coupled to a database through a Software as a Service SaaS database manager . The VoIP system management software application is representative of any number of system management software applications that may be coupled to a single database multiple databases or an instance of the database . The VoIP system management software application may be configured to run on a Microsoft Windows Linux Unix Solaris or other operating system hosted by a server or other computing device. In one embodiment each reseller in a VoIP network may utilize an instance of software application to manage relationships and interfaces between vendors other resellers and clients. In another embodiment each reseller may share software application in a multitenancy environment. In this embodiment software application may be virtually partitioned for each unique reseller.

The VoIP system management software application may be comprised of at least a user interface and a SaaS library . The user interface may allow an administrator technician salesperson or other person to configure or manage VoIP features services components and user accounts. The SaaS library may allow for bi directional communications between the VoIP system management software application and the SaaS . The SaaS library may be configured to communicate in accordance with the SaaS API.

In one embodiment web services may manage the API calls between the VoIP system management software application and SaaS over a network. The network may be any of a variety of networks such as a LAN such as an Ethernet network Fiber Distributed Data Interface FDDI network token ring network and wireless local area network WLAN based on the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.11 standards Wi Fi and or a WAN such as the Internet cellular data network or other data communication network. In another embodiment the VoIP system management software application and SaaS may reside on the same server or computing device.

In one embodiment the VoIP system management software application may access database through SaaS . In another embodiment the VoIP system management software application may use a different application to access and manage the database . For example the application to access and manage the database may be another SaaS application a platform as a service PaaS application or other software application.

In one embodiment SaaS comprises a database management layer a transaction history layer a security layer and a job management layer . The database management layer may constitute the interface to the database . The database management layer may communicate with the database by complying with the database API. The transaction history layer may keep a log of recent transactions that have modified the database. The log may be comprised of a catalog of the database objects that have been added or deleted times when the changes were made users who made the changes and other information. The transaction history layer may allow for transactions to be rolled back.

The security layer may control access to portions of the database based on the role or group making the request. Several different VoIP system management software applications may access a single database and each VoIP system management software application may be allowed to access only data or objects in the database relevant to their specific VoIP network platform. In one embodiment the security layer may prevent unauthorized access of credit card numbers stored in database for users not associated with the requesting VoIP system management software application . In another embodiment the security layer may secure other private information in the database and prevent unauthorized users or systems from acquiring this private information.

The job management layer may provide batching of tasks for actions frequently performed. The tasks may be any of a variety of tasks associated with accessing the database including storing new objects in the database deleting objects already in the database adding attributes to an object in the database modifying schema and many others. The job management layer may also provide a user interface giving a user access to the selection and batching of tasks. Additional layers not pictured may be added to the SaaS offering other services to the VoIP system management software application when accessing the database . In another embodiment the layers and may be arranged in a different order than the order shown in . In a further embodiment some layers may be omitted and other layers not shown may be added.

The database may store information associated with a VoIP network. The data may be stored in database and accessed by one or more VoIP system management software applications . The database may be an actual physical database or it may be an instance of a physical database. The database may any of a variety of types of databases including PostgreSQL Microsoft SQL Oracle Sybase Informix MySQL Intervase or other types.

Referring now to one embodiment of an activation path and deactivation path of a telephone number is shown. The example shown in is based on the configuration illustrated in between vendors resellers and users. In the example shown in user is activating telephone number which originates from vendor . Telephone number may be processed by resellers and in order to become available to and activated by user . In other embodiments the chain of resellers and vendors may be longer or shorter than that shown in for the activation of a telephone number by an end user.

Step may be the activation path that telephone number takes from vendor to reseller . Step may constitute a transaction between vendor and reseller . Telephone number may be pointed to an IP address associated with reseller and routed to reseller in step . Step may be the activation path for telephone number from reseller to reseller . Finally step may be the final path of telephone number as it is provided to user and activated for use. User may utilize telephone number for VoIP service for any length of time. Then at some future point user may change or cancel VoIP service for telephone number resulting in telephone number being deactivated.

When telephone number is deactivated then a reverse process may take place to return telephone number to the inventory of vendor . Telephone number may be returned to reseller in step and then telephone number may traverse the path from reseller to reseller in step . Then in step telephone number may traverse the path from reseller to vendor to return to the inventory of available telephone numbers offered by vendor .

Turning now to one embodiment of the various pricing groups within a tier is shown. The telephone numbers shown in tier may have been aggregated from a plurality of vendors and resellers. The example shown in is only one example of the pricing groups that may exist within a single tier. Tier shown in corresponds to tier shown in and tier may be presented to downstream users and resellers by reseller .

The prices of the different pricing groups represent the cost of acquiring these telephone numbers from upstream vendors and resellers by reseller . Pricing group A includes the cheapest telephone numbers in tier indicated with a single and these telephone numbers include numbers and which are representative of any number of telephone numbers in pricing group A. Pricing group B includes the next cheapest telephone numbers in tier after pricing group A indicated with a double and these telephone numbers include numbers and which are representative of any number of telephone numbers in pricing group B. Pricing group C includes the most expensive telephone numbers in tier represented by a triple and these telephone numbers include numbers and which are representative of any number of telephone numbers in pricing group C. In other embodiments tier may have other numbers of pricing groups greater than or less than three.

A downstream user or reseller may wish to acquire a telephone number from tier and the telephone number may be automatically selected from the cheapest pricing group Group A so as to maximize the profit for reseller . If none of the telephone numbers from pricing group A fit the criteria determined by the user then a telephone number from pricing group B may be selected. Likewise if none of the telephone numbers from pricing group B fit the criteria indicated by the user then a telephone number from pricing group C may be selected.

A user may utilize a user portal to connect to reseller for purchasing and activating telephone numbers. Tier may be displayed to the user via a user interface that is branded in accordance with reseller s branding elements. In one embodiment the user may specify one or more criteria that should be used for selecting a telephone number. For example the user may specify a certain zip code area code or geographical area with which to associate the telephone number. Alternatively the user may wish to select a vanity phone number that spells a specific word on the telephone keypad. After the user sets their preferred criteria the user interface may display a list of telephone numbers that meet the criteria. In one embodiment the list presented to the user may include the cheapest telephone numbers at the top of the list. Alternatively only the cheapest telephone numbers such as from pricing group A may be shown in a first list to the user. If the user wishes for more choices then telephone numbers from the other pricing groups B and C may be displayed to the user. Similarly in one scenario the user may wish for a toll free telephone number and pricing groups may be created within a tier with only toll free telephone numbers.

Referring now to an embodiment of a method for selecting a telephone number from a tier is shown. For purposes of discussion the steps in this embodiment are shown in sequential order. It should be noted that in various embodiments of the method described below one or more of the elements described may be performed concurrently in a different order than shown or may be omitted entirely. Other additional elements may also be performed as desired. Method may apply to the illustration of tier shown in with three different pricing groups.

In one embodiment method may begin by receiving a user request for a telephone number from tier block . The user may be an actual end user or another reseller and the request may be made with certain specified criteria indicating what type of telephone number is desired. Next it may be determined if any available telephone numbers from group A meet the criteria conditional block . Since group A is the group with the cheapest telephone numbers group A may be the first group within the tier that is considered. In one embodiment group A may include telephone numbers that are within a certain range of prices and the cheapest telephone number s from group A may be the first telephone number s selected if they meet the required criteria. If a telephone number from group A meets the criteria conditional block then a telephone number may be selected from pricing group A and activated for the end user block .

If a telephone number from group A does not meet the criteria conditional block then it may be determined if a telephone number from group B meets the criteria conditional block . If a telephone number from group B meets the criteria conditional block then a telephone number may be selected from pricing group B and activated for the end user block . If a telephone number from group B does not meet the criteria conditional block then it may be determined if a telephone number from group C meets the criteria conditional block .

If a telephone number from group C meets the criteria conditional block then a telephone number may be selected from pricing group C and activated for the end user block . If a telephone number from group C does not meet the criteria conditional block then a telephone number may be selected from any other available groups or if group C was the last group then tier may indicate to the end user that no telephone numbers met the criteria block . After blocks and method may end for the selection of this particular telephone number.

Turning now to one embodiment of a versioning database is shown. Versioning database may be utilized to keep track of the history for the plurality of telephone numbers within a VoIP network. Versioning database is one example of a database and other types of databases may be formatted in any of various other manners and include other types of information. Each reseller and vendor may have access to a portion of the versioning database corresponding to their own supply of telephone numbers and this portion of the versioning database may include historical information for their specific telephone numbers.

As shown in versioning database includes listings for telephone numbers 555 0000 555 0001 and 555 0002 . These telephone numbers are representative of any number of telephone numbers that may be tracked in a versioning database. Other versioning databases may have thousands or millions of telephone numbers which may be tracked and in which the history of each telephone number may be stored.

Some of the fields of information for each telephone number may include a date field indicating the date of a change to any information associated with the telephone number. The fields may also include an E911 field reseller field voice mail service associated with the telephone number SIP trunk for routing of calls to the telephone number a price that was paid for the telephone number and any of a variety of other information fields. Any time there is a change with any of the relationships services or other attributes of a telephone number the change may be logged in versioning database .

For example Vendor may be setup to provide E911 service for telephone number 555 0000 . Then later changes to 555 0000 may include a change to vendor for SIP trunking services reseller may reallocate VoIP service and E911 service may be transferred to vendor from vendor . All of these events are logged in versioning database as shown in . Telephone number 555 0001 has entries in versioning database to log that vendor is a provider of voice mail service and vendor is a provider of E911 service. Telephone number 555 0002 may have entries in versioning database for resellers and activating VoIP service vendor for voice mail service vendor for SIP trunk service and vendor for E911 service.

The entries shown in represent only a small portion of entries which may be included in versioning database . In some embodiments a versioning database may also include information associated with the end user of the telephone number such as address payment credit card information billing statements and other information. Versioning database may utilize any type of database for storing and organizing the historical data associated with the VoIP network s telephone numbers.

Referring now to one embodiment of the activation of a telephone number through multiple resellers is shown. The telephone number may be purchased by end user and provisioned through multiple resellers from the original reseller that is providing the telephone number. In one embodiment an origination director may be utilized to activate a telephone number. The origination director may determine how to activate the telephone number how to use available minutes which switches to utilize during the activation process and may perform other tasks depending on the embodiment. The origination director may also be referred to as a routing appliance. The origination director may utilize SIP standards to communicate routing information to various switching devices. When a phone number is activated through many resellers of a VoIP reseller network the activation process may traverse several hops through the reseller network. During each hop through a reseller s platform the activation process may point to an IP address to move through the reseller s platform. The origination director may be configured to route the activation through the switches of each connection point as the activation traverses the reseller network to its destination. In some embodiments a termination director may also be utilized in a similar fashion for terminating phone calls through the VoIP network platform.

In the example shown in reseller may be the original source of the telephone number and after the telephone number has been selected and purchased by end user reseller may be notified of the activation of the telephone number. As shown in the telephone number may originate in tier . The telephone number may be routed to IP address which is used to represent a routing of the activation through the network of reseller .

From IP address the activation signal may be propagated to tier of reseller . It is assumed for purposes of this discussion that reseller included the chosen telephone number within tier of its telephone number offerings. The activation may be routed through the network of reseller to IP address and then the activation may be propagated to tier of reseller . Likewise for purposes of this discussion it is assumed that reseller included the chosen telephone number within tier of its telephone number offerings. Then the activation may be routed through the switching circuitry of reseller to IP address . From IP address the activation may reach end user and the telephone number may then be setup and ready for VoIP service.

Generally speaking an activation of a telephone number may utilize a routing appliance to propagate and point the telephone number to IP addresses at exit points of a given reseller s network. The routing appliance may use SIP standards to communicate routing information to the switching gear of each given reseller s network. This activation may then allow end user to seamlessly activate their telephone number for VoIP service. In other embodiments the numbers of resellers traversed in the activation of a telephone number may be greater than or less than three.

Each reseller shown in may run VoIP system management software application to configure and manage its VoIP individual network platform. In one embodiment the VoIP system management software application may run on a server or computing device managed by each reseller. In another embodiment the VoIP system management software application may be an externally hosted software application. The VoIP system management software application may reside on a separate computing device from the computing device utilized by a given reseller. The computing device utilized by a given reseller may include a user portal software application or other type of software application for interfacing and communicating with the externally hosted VoIP system management software application.

Referring now to an embodiment of a method for reselling telephone numbers is shown. For purposes of discussion the steps in this embodiment are shown in sequential order. It should be noted that in various embodiments of the method described below one or more of the elements described may be performed concurrently in a different order than shown or may be omitted entirely. Other additional elements may also be performed as desired.

In one embodiment method may begin by a first reseller executing a software application to aggregate a plurality of telephone numbers from a plurality of vendors and or other resellers block . The software application may be hosted in the cloud as a SaaS and the first reseller may access the software application via a user portal running on any suitable computing device. A portion of the telephone numbers may be from the first reseller s own supply and a portion of the telephone numbers may be procured from the vendors and or other resellers. The plurality of telephone numbers may be grouped into two or more tiers by the first reseller block . Then access to each tier may be provided to downstream clients and resellers block . Each tier may be re branded by the first reseller to obscure the actual source of the telephone numbers in the tier. Telephone numbers may be automatically selected from each tier by the software application so as to maximize the profit for the first reseller. Method may also be performed for other services besides providing telephone numbers and telephone number activation. Also method may be performed by a plurality of resellers in a VoIP network.

Turning now to a block diagram of one embodiment of a cloud based VoIP service coupled to a multi hierarchy of resellers is shown. Cloud may provide the computing resources for executing a VoIP system management SaaS and resellers and may be coupled to cloud via internet . Cloud may include server and database for hosting the SaaS and storing the corresponding data. Server and database are representative of any number of servers and databases respectively that may reside in cloud .

Resellers are representative of any number of resellers that may be connected to cloud for accessing the multi tenant SaaS . Each of resellers may include any type of computing device s for connecting to cloud via internet . Resellers are also representative of any number of levels of hierarchy for a reseller network. For example reseller is shown as a downstream reseller of reseller and additional downstream resellers may be coupled below reseller . Each reseller may access and execute multi tenant SaaS and the data and configuration of SaaS may be virtually partitioned to accommodate each reseller. In other words each reseller may run a customized virtual application instance of SaaS . Cloud may also be coupled to a plurality of vendors not shown via internet . SaaS may provide each reseller access to the VoIP services supplied by these vendors.

It is noted that the above described embodiments may comprise software. In such an embodiment program instructions and or a database both of which may be referred to as instructions that represent the described systems and or methods may be stored on a non transitory computer readable storage medium. Generally speaking a computer readable storage medium may include any storage media accessible by a computer during use to provide instructions and or data to the computer. For example a computer readable storage medium may include storage media such as magnetic or optical media e.g. disk fixed or removable tape CD ROM DVD ROM CD R CD RW DVD R DVD RW or Blu Ray. Storage media may further include volatile or non volatile memory media such as RAM e.g. synchronous dynamic RAM SDRAM double data rate DDR DDR2 DDR3 etc. SDRAM low power DDR LPDDR2 etc. SDRAM Rambus DRAM RDRAM static RAM SRAM ROM Flash memory non volatile memory e.g. Flash memory accessible via a peripheral interface such as the USB interface etc. Storage media may include micro electro mechanical systems MEMS as well as storage media accessible via a communication medium such as a network and or a wireless link.

In various embodiments one or more portions of the methods and mechanisms described herein may form part of a cloud computing environment. In such embodiments resources may be provided over the Internet as services according to one or more various models. Such models may include Infrastructure as a Service or Integration as a Service IaaS Platform as a Service PaaS and Software as a Service SaaS . In IaaS computer infrastructure is delivered as a service. In such a case the computing equipment is generally owned and operated by the service provider. In the PaaS model software tools and underlying equipment used by developers to develop software solutions may be provided as a service and hosted by the service provider. SaaS typically includes a service provider licensing software as a service on demand. The service provider may host the software or may deploy the software to a customer for a given period of time. Numerous combinations of the above models are possible and are contemplated.

Although several embodiments of approaches have been shown and described it will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that a number of changes modifications or alterations to the approaches as described may be made. Changes modifications and alterations should therefore be seen as within the scope of the methods and mechanisms described herein. It should also be emphasized that the above described embodiments are only non limiting examples of implementations.

