---

title: Gesture-based time input
abstract: A computing device is described that outputs for display, a graphical user interface comprising a clock having regions associated with a first set of time increments. Responsive to receiving an indication of an input at a portion of a presence-sensitive input device corresponding to a location of a display device at which one of the regions of the clock is displayed, the computing device determines one of the first set of time increments. The computing device outputs for display, and proximate to the location, a second set of time increments. The computing device determines a time based on the determined one of the first set of time increments and a selected one of the second time increments.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09176480&OS=09176480&RS=09176480
owner: Google Inc.
number: 09176480
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131111
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 761 068 filed Feb. 5 2013 the entire content of which is hereby incorporated by reference.

Some computing devices e.g. mobile phones tablet computers etc. may provide a graphical time selector or other mechanism as part of a graphical user interface for inputting a time using a presence sensitive display e.g. a touch screen operatively coupled to the computing device. The computing device may for example output the graphical time selector for display in response to an application e.g. e mail client calendar etc. request for a time related data entry from a user of the computing device.

In some cases the graphical time selector may include text entry fields for entering digits associated with a unit of time e.g. hour minute second using keys such as keys provided by a graphical keyboard presented at a presence sensitive screen. In other examples the graphical time selector may include one or more virtual selector wheels that rotate in response to an indication of a gesture at a presence sensitive screen. Through selector wheel rotations the computing device can increase or decrease a time entry by a unit of time. Still in other cases graphical time selectors include graphical buttons presented at a presence sensitive screen that when selected can be used to increase and or decrease a unit of time associated with the time entry.

These graphical time selectors that utilize a graphical keyboard one or more scroll wheels and or graphical buttons may have certain drawbacks. For example these graphical time selectors may not provide an efficient way for a computing device to receive an indication of a user input associated with a time entry. These graphical time selectors may require the computing device to receive indications of multiple tap and or non tap gestures at a presence sensitive screen for a single time entry. For each additional time entry graphical time selectors such as this may additionally require the computing device to receive and process multiple indications of taps and or non tap gestures at the presence sensitive screen.

In one example the disclosure is directed to a method that includes outputting by a computing device and for display a graphical user interface comprising a clock having regions associated with a first set of time increments. Responsive to receiving an indication of an input at a portion of a presence sensitive input device corresponding to a location of a display device at which one of the regions of the clock is displayed the method may include determining by the computing device one of the first set of time increments and outputting for display and proximate to the location a second set of time increments. The method may include determining by the computing device a time based on the determined one of the first set of time increments and a selected one of the second time increments.

In another example the disclosure is directed to a computing device that includes at least one processor. The at least one processor may be configured to output for display a graphical user interface comprising a clock having regions associated with a first set of time increments. Responsive to receiving an indication of an input at a portion of a presence sensitive input device corresponding to a location of a display device at which one of the regions of the clock is displayed the at least one processor may be configured to determine one of the first set of time increments and output for display and proximate to the location a second set of time increments. The at least one processor may be configured to determine a time based on the determined one of the first set of time increments and a selected one of the second time increments.

In another example the disclosure is directed to a computer readable storage medium encoded with instructions that when executed cause at least one processor of a computing device to output for display a graphical user interface comprising a clock having regions associated with a first set of time increments. Responsive to receiving an indication of an input at a portion of a presence sensitive input device corresponding to a location of a display device at which one of the regions of the clock is displayed the instructions when executed may cause the at least one processor of the computing device to determine one of the first set of time increments and output for display and proximate to the location a second set of time increments. The instructions when executed may cause the at least one processor of the computing device to determine a time based on the determined one of the first set of time increments and a selected one of the second time increments.

The details of one or more examples are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features objects and advantages of the disclosure will be apparent from the description and drawings and from the claims.

Examples described in this disclosure relate to techniques applied by a computing device that receives an indication of user input at a presence sensitive input device e.g. display screen etc. when the computing device outputs for display a graphical user interface including a graphical representation of a clock. The computing device may configure the clock of the graphical user interface to act as a graphical time selector for inputting a time entry based on a single gesture input detected by the presence sensitive input device. One or more of the techniques described herein may enable the computing device to determine at least one time entry per each gesture entered at the presence sensitive input device.

In some implementations the graphical representation of the clock may include multiple regions and a course set of time increments for example hour and or half hour times of day. In response to receiving an indication of a single input e.g. a gesture at a portion of the presence sensitive screen corresponding to a location at which one of the clock regions is displayed the computing device may determine one of the course increments of time and output for display a finer set of time increments proximate to the clock region. For example the fine set of time increments may represent five minute time increments before and or after the determined course increment of time. Prior to detecting an end of the single gesture input the computing device may determine a selected one of the finer time increments. Based on the determined one of the course set of time increments and the selected one of the finer set of time increments the computing device may determine a time entry such as a time of day. In this way the computing device may determine a time entry based on a single input at the presence sensitive input device.

In accordance with techniques of the disclosure rather than utilize time selectors that require multiple user inputs or multiple user gestures for a single time entry the computing device may output a graphical time selector by which the computing device receives an indication of a time entry based on a single gesture input. This may allow a user of the computing device to input time entries faster than conventional techniques and the computing device may process input of time entries more efficiently. That is by determining a time based on a single gesture input the computing device may execute fewer operations and or instructions than other computing devices that have graphical time selectors configured to receive multiple gestures for a single time entry input. By performing fewer operations the computing device may potentially operate more efficiently and consume less electrical power.

Although discussed below with respect to a computing device that receives an indication of input at a presence sensitive screen and outputs for display to a presence sensitive screen the use of a presence sensitive screen for either input or output should not be construed to be in any way limiting. For instance in some examples rather than receiving an indication of a user input from a presence sensitive screen the computing device receives the user input from a track pad a depth camera or other presence sensitive input device. In some examples rather than output for display to a presence sensitive screen the computing device outputs for display to a projector a monitor or other display device and or screen.

As shown in computing device includes a user interface device UID . UID of computing device may function as an input device for computing device and additionally in some instances as an output device. UID may be implemented using various technologies. For instance UID may function as an input device using a resistive touchscreen a surface acoustic wave touchscreen a capacitive touchscreen a projective capacitance touchscreen a pressure sensitive screen an acoustic pulse recognition touchscreen or another presence sensitive screen technology. UID may function as an output device using any one or more of a liquid crystal display LCD dot matrix display light emitting diode LED display organic light emitting diode OLED display e ink or similar monochrome or color display capable of outputting visible information to the user of computing device .

For purposes of illustration only when describing UID it is assumed in the example of that UID includes a presence sensitive screen that can receive tactile user input from a user of computing device . UID may receive the tactile user input by detecting one or more tap gestures and or non tap gestures from a user of computing device e.g. the user touching or pointing to one or more locations of UID with a finger or a stylus pen . The presence sensitive screen of UID can also present output to a user. UID may present the output as a user interface e.g. user interface which may be related to functionality provided by computing device . For example UID may present various functions and applications executing on computing device such as a calendar application an electronic message application and an Internet browser application.

Computing device may include user interface UI module clock module and gesture module . Modules and may perform operations described herein using software hardware firmware or a mixture of hardware software and firmware residing in and executing on computing device . Computing device may execute modules and with one or more processors. In some examples computing device may execute modules and as a virtual machine executing on underlying hardware.

UI module may receive data from applications executing at computing device and modules such as clock module and process the received data into a user interface e.g. user interface including graphical elements for display at the presence sensitive screen of UID . illustrates UI module causing UID to present user interface . User interface includes graphical elements displayed at various locations of UID . illustrates clock having regions and first time increments as part of user interface .

Clock module represents an application and or module executing at computing device to manage output of a graphical time selector and process input related to the graphical time selector. For instance UI module may receive instructions from clock module that relate to command and control of clock when UI module includes clock within user interface . Clock module may interpret data generated by gesture module that relates to an input received at a location of a presence sensitive screen of UID that presents clock . Based on an interpretation of data received from gesture module clock module may generate commands for UI module that cause UI module to modifying user interface .

Clock is a graphical representation of a clock output for display and provides a graphical time selector for receiving a time entry from a user as part of an application e.g. a calendar application an Internet browsing application text editing application etc. or operating system executing at computing device . In this example clock includes graphical elements displayed as features of an analog clock. Different regions of the graphical representation of clock are associated with different durations of time. For instance regions of clock may represent equal divisions of clock that are each associated with different hour long durations of time e.g. twelve twenty four etc. divisions to represent twelve or twenty four hour divisions of a day . One o clock and two o clock may bound one of regions two o clock and three o clock may bound a different one of regions etc. Although described below with respect to hour long durations of time regions may be graphical regions that are associated with durations of time greater than or less than a single hour. For instance regions may be associated with minutes or multi hour durations of time.

In this example clock includes a first set of time increments also referred to herein a set of course time increments . Time increments bound and or segregate each of regions into individual time durations. illustrates time increments as one hour increments of time. Although illustrated as one hour increments of time in some examples time increments may be one day increments of time one hour increments of time one half hour increments of time one minute increments of time one second increments of time or larger or smaller increments of time. That is time increments may represent time increments greater than or less than single hours such as one half hour time increments minute time increments etc.

As shown in clock also includes a second set of time increments also referred to herein as a set of finer time increments. Time increments may represent intervals of time within a single one of regions or adjacent ones of regions . Time increments may for example be one minute increments of time five minute increments of time ten minute increments of time fifteen minute increments of time or other exemplary increments of time that are less than the duration of each of the first set of time increments . Each of time increments may for example be a fractional value of each of time increments . In this way time increments are of finer grain time increments than time increments . For example while each of time increments may represent a one hour time increment each of time increments may represent a fraction of one hour time increment. In some examples UID may present time increments at the presence sensitive screen at an area outside of clock and proximate to a selected one of time increments . In other examples UID may present time increments at the presence sensitive screen within one of regions . illustrates six time increments that represent fifteen ten and five minute increments before and after the two o clock time increment .

In the example of clock module outputs clock to present a determined time near a center portion of clock . That is as described below determined time represents a time entry output from the graphical time selector as determined by clock module . Determined time may represent any particular time of day or amount of time having a single field or multiple fields for individual units of time. For instance determined time may represent a unit of time in multiples or fractions of hours minutes and seconds and may further include one or more fields for a calendar day or label of a day of a week.

Gesture module of computing device may receive from UID an indication of user input entered at a presence sensitive screen of UID and process the indication of the user input into data that gesture module shares with UI module clock module and other applications and or modules executing at computing device . Gesture module may for example be a component of an operating system executing at computing device . Each time UID receives an indication of user input detected at a location of the presence sensitive screen gesture module may receive information about the user input from UID . Gesture module may assemble the information received from UID and generate a group of touch events. One or more touch events in the group may include a representation e.g. data such as a location associated with UID a time related to when UID received part of a user input at the location and or a direction related to whether the touch event represents a lift up a push down or a lateral motion at the presence sensitive screen. Gesture module may transmit the group of touch events to UI module and clock module . UI module and clock module may use the data associated with one or more of these touch events to determine an appropriate response to the user input. For example based on the location components of these touch events clock module may cause UI module to modify clock and output determined time at the presence sensitive screen of UID .

In accordance with techniques of this disclosure computing device may output for display e.g. at a presence sensitive screen of UID a graphical user interface comprising a clock having regions associated with a first set of time increments . A user of computing device may interact with an application e.g. a calendar executing at computing device . The application may contain an option for inputting a time used by the application in performing a function e.g. generating an event notice a meeting invitation etc. . The application may detect a selection of the option to enter a time and in response the application may invoke clock module to output clock and process a receipt of a time entry from the user.

In response to invocation by the application clock module may send commands and or data to UI module for outputting user interface including clock . For example UI module may receive an internal data communication or application programming interface API call from clock module with instructions to output clock . In response to the internal communication from clock module UI module may cause UID to output user interface including clock and time increments at a presence sensitive screen.

Responsive to receiving an indication of an input at a portion of the presence sensitive screen of UID corresponding to a location at which one of regions of clock is displayed computing device may determine one of the first set of time increments and output for display and proximate to the location a second set of time increments . In other words as UID outputs user interface at the presence sensitive screen UID of computing device may also detect a gesture input at the presence sensitive screen e.g. as a user taps or swipes a finger and or stylus pen across locations of the presence sensitive screen of UID as illustrated in with a dashed line segment . In some examples gesture input is a series of one or more tap gestures. In other cases gesture input may be one or more non tap gestures. In any event gesture module may receive data about gesture input as UID receives gesture input . Gesture module may process the data about gesture input into a group of one or more touch events and share the one or more touch events with UI module and clock module .

Based on the locations of the one or more touch events clock module may determine that the touch events represent a gesture at a portion of the presence sensitive screen of UID at which UID presents one of regions of clock e.g. the one o clock to two o clock region of regions . Clock module may further determine that the locations of the one or more touch events represent a gesture at a portion of the presence sensitive screen of UID closest to where UID presents a single one of time increments e.g. the two o clock time increment of time increments . For instance in addition to receiving the touch event data from gesture module clock module may receive data from UI module about the locations of the presence sensitive screen where UID presents regions and time increments . Clock module may compare the locations of the touch events with the locations of regions and the locations of time increments . Clock module may determine the one of regions and the one of time increments with locations closest e.g. shortest distance to the locations of the touch events based on gesture . As shown in the example of clock module may determine the touch events represent a selection of the two o clock time increment of time increments .

In response to identifying a selection of the two o clock time increment of time increments clock module may send a display command to UI module with instructions to output time increments . UI module may receive the instructions from clock and cause UID to output for display at the presence sensitive screen time increments proximate to i.e. near the two o clock time increment of time increments . UI module may share location data about where UID presents time increments at the presence sensitive screen with clock module .

Computing device may determine a time entry e.g. a current time of day based on the determined one of the first set of time increments and a selected one of the second time increments which may each be selected in response to an indication of a single gesture. For example after clock module sends instructions to UI module that commands UI module to cause UID to output time increments at the presence sensitive screen and at a location near the two o clock time increment of time increments clock module may receive additional touch events from gesture module . Gesture module may generate the additional touch events while continuing to receive the indication of the gesture input . In other words clock module may receive additional touch events from gesture module and data about where UID presents time increments at the presence sensitive screen.

Clock module may determine a selected one of time increments by comparing the location data of time increments received from UI module with the locations of the additional touch events. The selected one of time increments may correspond to one of time increments having a location nearest the additional touch events. For example the locations of the additional touch events may share a shorter distance to forty five minute e.g. fifteen minutes before two o clock time increment of increments than each of the other increments . Clock module may determine the forty five minute time increment of time increments represents the selected one of time increments .

In this example the selected one of time increments is based on additional touch events generated from the gesture input received at the presence sensitive screen of UID . In other examples clock module may determine the selected one of time increments from the original touch events received from gesture module . For instance if subsequent to commanding UI module to output time increments clock module does not receive additional touch events from gesture module or if none of the locations of the additional touch events shares a shortest distance with one of time increments clock module may determine a selection of none of time increments .

In any event clock module may determine a time entry based on the determined one of time increments and the selected one of time increments . In this example clock module may determine the time entry by a combination of the selected one of time increments e.g. two o clock and the selected one of time increments e.g. negative fifteen minutes . Clock module may determine forty five minutes past one o clock represents the time based on gesture input .

Computing device may output the determined time for display. For example after determining the time based on the user input clock module may transmit the data about the time to UI module with instructions for outputting the time as determined time of . UI module may cause UID to output determined time at the presence sensitive screen. In some examples in addition to or alternative to causing UI module to output determined time at the presence sensitive screen clock module may output determined time to one or more applications. For instance clock module may output determined time to the application that invoked clock module . The invoking application may receive determined time from clock module and utilize determined time in performing a function such as generating a calendar appointment.

Applications and or modules executing at computing device that invoke clock module and utilize a graphical time selector according to techniques of this disclosure may more quickly and efficiently receive time entries from a user than applications and or modules that use different graphical time selectors. For instance by use of the graphical time selector according to techniques of this disclosure applications or other software executing at computing device can receive and determine a complete time entry based on a single gesture received at a presence sensitive screen. Unlike graphical time selectors that require multiple taps and non tap gestures to input a time computing device that uses a graphical time selector according to techniques of this disclosure may potentially receive time entries quicker and or perform fewer operations unnecessarily processing extra user inputs to input a single time entry. Consequently by performing fewer operations computing device may operate more efficiently and consume less electrical power than other computing devices.

As shown in the example of computing device includes user interface device UID one or more processors one or more input devices one or more communication units one or more output devices and one or more storage devices . Storage devices of computing device also include UI module clock module and gesture module . Communication channels may interconnect each of the components and for inter component communications physically communicatively and or operatively . In some examples communication channels may include a system bus a network connection an inter process communication data structure or any other method for communicating data.

One or more input devices of computing device may receive input. Examples of input are tactile audio and video input. Input devices of computing device in one example includes a presence sensitive screen touch sensitive screen mouse keyboard voice responsive system video camera microphone or any other type of device for detecting input from a human or machine.

One or more output devices of computing device may generate output. Examples of output are tactile audio and video output. Output devices of computing device in one example includes a presence sensitive screen sound card video graphics adapter card speaker cathode ray tube CRT monitor liquid crystal display LCD or any other type of device for generating output to a human or machine.

One or more communication units of computing device may communicate with external devices via one or more networks by transmitting and or receiving network signals on the one or more networks. For example computing device may use communication unit to transmit and or receive radio signals on a radio network such as a cellular radio network. Likewise communication units may transmit and or receive satellite signals on a satellite network such as a GPS network. Examples of communication unit include a network interface card e.g. such as an Ethernet card an optical transceiver a radio frequency transceiver a GPS receiver or any other type of device that can send and or receive information. Other examples of communication units may include Bluetooth GPS 3G 4G and Wi Fi radios found in mobile devices as well as Universal Serial Bus USB controllers.

In some examples UID of computing device may include functionality of input devices and or output devices . In the example of UID may be or may include a presence sensitive screen. In some examples a presence sensitive screen may detect an object at and or near the presence sensitive screen. As one example range a presence sensitive screen may detect an object such as a finger or stylus that is within two inches or less of the presence sensitive screen. The presence sensitive screen may determine a location e.g. an x y coordinate of the presence sensitive screen at which the object was detected. In another example range a presence sensitive screen may detect an object six inches or less from the presence sensitive screen and other exemplary ranges are also possible. The presence sensitive screen may determine the location of the screen selected by a user s finger using capacitive inductive and or optical recognition techniques. In some examples presence sensitive screen provides output to a user using tactile audio or video stimuli as described with respect to output device . In the example of UID presents a user interface such as user interface of and other various functions and applications executing on computing device at the presence sensitive screen of UID .

While illustrated as an internal component of computing device UID also represents and external component that shares a data path with computing device for transmitting and or receiving input and output. For instance in one example UID represents a built in component of computing device located within and physically connected to the external packaging of computing device e.g. a screen on a mobile phone . In another example UID represents an external component of computing device located outside and physically separated from the packaging of computing device e.g. a monitor or a projector that shares a wired and or wireless data path with a tablet computer .

One or more storage devices within computing device may store information for processing during operation of computing device e.g. instructions and or data associated with UI module clock module and gesture module . In some examples storage device is a temporary memory meaning that a primary purpose of storage device is not long term storage. Storage devices on computing device may configured for short term storage of information as volatile memory and therefore not retain stored contents if powered off. Examples of volatile memories include random access memories RAM dynamic random access memories DRAM static random access memories SRAM and other forms of volatile memories known in the art.

Storage devices in some examples also include one or more computer readable storage media. Storage devices may be configured to store larger amounts of information than volatile memory. Storage devices may further be configured for long term storage of information as non volatile memory space and retain information after power on off cycles. Examples of non volatile memories include magnetic hard discs optical discs floppy discs flash memories or forms of electrically programmable memories EPROM or electrically erasable and programmable EEPROM memories. Storage devices may store program instructions and or data associated with UI module clock module and gesture module .

One or more processors may implement functionality and or execute instructions within computing device . For example processors on computing device may receive and execute instructions stored by storage devices that execute the functionality of UI module clock module and gesture module . These instructions executed by processors may cause computing device to store information within storage devices during program execution. Processors may execute instructions of modules to cause UID to display user interface with a graphical representation of clock at the presence sensitive screen of UID . That is modules may be operable by processors to perform various actions including receiving user input entered at locations of the presence sensitive screen of UID and causing UID to present user interface at the presence sensitive screen of UID .

In accordance with aspects of this disclosure computing device of may output for display at presence sensitive screen a graphical user interface comprising a clock having regions associated with a first set of time increments . For example a user of computing device may interact with an application e.g. a calendar executing at computing device . The application may contain an option for inputting a time used by the application in performing a function e.g. generating an event notice a meeting invitation etc. . The application may detect a selection of the option to enter a time and in response the application may invoke clock module to output clock and process a receipt of a time entry from the user.

In response to invocation by the application clock module may send commands and or data over communication channels to UI module for outputting user interface including clock . For example UI module may receive an internal data communication or application programming interface API call from clock module over communication channels with instructions to output clock . In response to the internal communication from clock module UI module may cause presence sensitive screen to output user interface including clock and time increments .

Responsive to receiving an indication of an input e.g. gesture input at a portion of presence sensitive screen at which one of regions of clock is displayed computing device may determine one of the first set of time increments and output for display at presence sensitive screen and proximate to the portion of the presence sensitive screen a second set of time increments . In other words as presence sensitive screen presents user interface presence sensitive screen may also detect gesture input . In response to the indication of gesture input presence sensitive screen may transmit information about gesture input over communication channels to gesture module . Gesture module may receive the information from presence sensitive screen and define a group of touch events based on the information. Gesture module may process the data about gesture input into a group of one or more touch events. Each touch event in the group of touch events may include a direction component a location component and a time component. In other words each touch event may include data that represents from what direction presence sensitive screen received part or all of gesture input where at presence sensitive screen part or all of gesture input was received and when presence sensitive screen received part or all of gesture input . Gesture module may share the one or more touch events with UI module and clock module by transmitting the one or more touch events to one or both modules over communication channels .

Clock module may receive the one or more touch events over communication channels from gesture module . Based on the location data of the one or more touch events clock module may determine that the touch events represent an indication of a gesture received at a portion of presence sensitive screen at where presence sensitive screen presents one of regions of clock e.g. the one o clock to two o clock region of regions . Clock module may further determine that the locations of the one or more touch events represent a gesture at a portion of presence sensitive screen closest to where presence sensitive screen presents a single one of time increments e.g. the two o clock time increment of time increments . For instance in addition to receiving the touch event data from gesture module clock module may receive data from UI module over communication channels about locations at presence sensitive screen where regions and time increments are presented. Clock module may compare the locations of the touch events with the locations of regions and the locations of time increments . Clock module may determine the one of regions and the one of time increments with a location nearest to the locations gesture . As shown in the example of clock module may determine the touch events represent a selection of the two o clock time increment of time increments .

In response to identifying a selection of the two o clock time increment of time increments clock module may send a display command to UI module with instructions to output time increments . For instance clock module may send the display command over communication channels to modify the output of graphical user interface at presence sensitive screen . UI module may receive the display command and instructions from clock module and cause presence sensitive screen to present time increments proximate to i.e. near the two o clock time increment of time increments . UI module may share location data about where presence sensitive screen presents time increments with clock module .

Computing device may determine a time entry e.g. a current time of day based on the determined one of the first set of time increments and a selected one of the second time increments which may each be selected in response to an indication of a single gesture. For example after clock module sends instructions to UI module over communication channels that command UI module to cause presence sensitive screen to present time increments at a location near the two o clock time increment of time increments clock module may receive additional touch events from gesture module about the indication of gesture input . Gesture module may generate the additional touch events while continuing to receive the indication of the gesture input from presence sensitive screen . In other words clock module may receive additional touch events about gesture input from gesture module while presence sensitive screen presents time increments .

Clock module may determine a selected one of time increments by comparing the location data of time increments received from UI module with the locations of the additional touch events received from gesture module . The selected one of time increments may correspond to one of time increments having a location nearest the additional touch events. For example the locations of the additional touch events may share a shorter distance to forty five minute e.g. fifteen minutes before two o clock time increment of increments than each of the other increments . Clock module may determine the forty five minute time increment of time increments represents the selected one of time increments .

Clock module may determine a time entry based on the determined one of time increments and the selected one of time increments . In this example clock module may determine the time entry by a combination of the selected one of time increments e.g. two o clock and the selected one of time increments e.g. negative fifteen minutes . Clock module may determine forty five minutes past one o clock represents the time based on gesture input .

Computing device may output the determined time for display. For example after determining the time based on the user input clock module may transmit the data about the time over communication channels to UI module with instructions for outputting the time as determined time of . UI module may receive the time and instructions from clock module and cause presence sensitive screen to output determined time for display at presence sensitive screen .

In some examples clock module may share the determined time with the application that invoked clock module or any other application executing at computing device . For example clock module may output determined time over communication channels to the invoking application. The invoking application may receive determined time from clock module and utilize determined time in performing a function such as generating a calendar appointment.

Applications and or modules executing at computing device that invoke clock module and utilize a graphical time selector according to techniques of this disclosure may more quickly and efficiently receive time entries from a user than applications and or modules that use different graphical time selectors. Unlike graphical time selectors that require multiple taps and non tap gestures to input a time computing device that uses a graphical time selector according to techniques of this disclosure may potentially receive time entries faster and perform fewer operations by not processing extra user inputs to input a single time entry. By performing fewer operations computing device may operate more efficiently and consume less electrical power than other computing devices.

As shown in the example of computing device may be a processor that includes functionality as described with respect to processor in . In such examples computing device may be operatively coupled to presence sensitive display by a communication channel A which may be a system bus or other suitable connection. Computing device may also be operatively coupled to I O devices further described below by a communication channel B which may also be a system bus or other suitable connection. Although shown separately as an example in computing device may be operatively coupled to presence sensitive display and I O devices by any number of one or more communication channels.

In other examples such as illustrated previously in computing device may be a portable or mobile device such as mobile phones including smart phones laptop computers etc. In some examples computing device may be a desktop computers tablet computers smart television platforms cameras personal digital assistants PDAs servers mainframes etc.

As shown in computing device may also include and or be operatively coupled with communication unit . Communication unit may include functionality of communication unit as described in . Examples of communication unit may include a network interface card an Ethernet card an optical transceiver a radio frequency transceiver or any other type of device that can send and receive information. Other examples of such communication units may include Bluetooth 3G and WiFi radios Universal Serial Bus USB interfaces etc. Computing device may also include and or be operatively coupled with one or more other devices e.g. input devices output devices memory storage devices etc. that are not shown in for purposes of brevity and illustration.

Projector screen in some examples may include a presence sensitive display . Presence sensitive display may include a subset of functionality or all of the functionality of UID as described in this disclosure. In some examples presence sensitive display may include additional functionality. Projector screen e.g. an electronic whiteboard may receive data from computing device and display the graphical content. In some examples presence sensitive display may determine one or more user inputs e.g. continuous gestures multi touch gestures single touch gestures etc. at projector screen using capacitive inductive and or optical recognition techniques and send indications of such user input using one or more communication units to computing device .

As described above in some examples computing device may output graphical content for display at presence sensitive display that is coupled to computing device by a system bus or other suitable communication channel. Computing device may also output graphical content for display at one or more remote devices such as projector projector screen tablet device and visual display device . For instance computing device may execute one or more instructions to generate and or modify graphical content in accordance with techniques of the present disclosure. Computing device may output the data that includes the graphical content to a communication unit of computing device such as communication unit . Communication unit may send the data to one or more of the remote devices such as projector projector screen tablet device and or visual display device . In this way processor may output the graphical content for display at one or more of the remote devices. In some examples one or more of the remote devices may output the graphical content at a presence sensitive display that is included in and or operatively coupled to the respective remote devices.

In some examples computing device may not output graphical content at presence sensitive display that is operatively coupled to computing device . In other examples computing device may output graphical content for display at both a presence sensitive display that is coupled to computing device by communication channel A and at one or more remote devices. In such examples the graphical content may be displayed substantially contemporaneously at each respective device. For instance some delay may be introduced by the communication latency to send the data that includes the graphical content to the remote device. In some examples graphical content generated by computing device and output for display at presence sensitive display may be different than graphical content display output for display at one or more remote devices.

Computing device may send and receive data using any suitable communication techniques. For example computing device may be operatively coupled to external network using network link A. Each of the remote devices illustrated in may be operatively coupled to network external network by one of respective network links B C and D. External network may include network hubs network switches network routers etc. that are operatively inter coupled thereby providing for the exchange of information between computing device and the remote devices illustrated in . In some examples network links A D may be Ethernet ATM or other network connections. Such connections may be wireless and or wired connections.

In some examples computing device may be operatively coupled to one or more of the remote devices included in using direct device communication . Direct device communication may include communications through which computing device sends and receives data directly with a remote device using wired or wireless communication. That is in some examples of direct device communication data sent by computing device may not be forwarded by one or more additional devices before being received at the remote device and vice versa. Examples of direct device communication may include Bluetooth Near Field Communication Universal Serial Bus WiFi infrared etc. One or more of the remote devices illustrated in may be operatively coupled with computing device by communication links A D. In some examples communication links A D may be connections using Bluetooth Near Field Communication Universal Serial Bus infrared etc. Such connections may be wireless and or wired connections.

In accordance with techniques of the disclosure computing device may be operatively coupled to visual display device using external network . Computing device may output graphical user interface that comprises clock having regions associated with time increments for display at presence sensitive display . For instance computing device may send data that includes a representation of graphical user interface of to communication unit . Communication unit may send the data that includes the representation of graphical user interface to visual display device using external network . Visual display device in response to receiving the data using external network may cause presence sensitive display to output graphical user interface . In response to a user performing a gesture at presence sensitive display e.g. to select one of time increments visual display device may send an indication of the gesture to computing device using external network . Communication unit of may receive the indication of the gesture and send the indication to computing device .

Computing device may determine one of time increments selected by the gesture. In some examples computing device may determine a distance relative to a location at presence sensitive display associated with the gesture and a location at presence sensitive display associated with each of time increments . Computing device may determine the selected one of time increments e.g. by identifying the one of time increments with the shortest distance to the gesture .

In response to the gesture computing device may modify graphical user interface to include time increments for display at presence sensitive display . For instance computing device may send data that includes a representation of the modified graphical user interface including time increments to communication unit . Communication unit may send the data that includes the representation of the modified graphical user interface to visual display device using external network . Visual display device in response to receiving the data using external network may cause presence sensitive display to update graphical user interface by including time increments .

Computing device may determine a time based on the determined one of time increments and a selected one time increments . For example while presence sensitive display outputs the updated graphical user interface and still in response to the user performing the gesture at presence sensitive display e.g. to select one of time increments visual display device may send further indications of the gesture to computing device using external network . Communication unit of may receive the further indications of the gesture and send the further indications to computing device .

Computing device may determine one of time increments selected by the gesture. Computing device may determine the selected one of time increments e.g. by identifying the one of time increments with a shortest distance to the further indications of the gesture . Computing device may determine a time based on the determined one of time increments and the selected one of time increments in accordance with techniques of the disclosure.

Computing device may determine a time B based on the determined one of the set of coarse time increments B and a selected one of the set of fine time increments B. That is clock module may receive one or more touch events about input B from gesture module . Clock module may compare location data of the touch events to locations associated with each of fine grain time increments B. Clock module may determine one of fine grain time increments B nearest the path of input B as being a selected one of fine grain time increments B. In the example of the selected one of fine grain time increments B corresponds to the one of fine grain time increments B represented by the value twenty five. In some examples clock module may combine the determined one of time increments B e.g. one o clock with the selected one of time increments B e.g. twenty five to determine time B e.g. twenty five minutes after one o clock represents the start time of the calendar appointment entry as determined by clock module .

In some examples determined time B may be associated with one of AM and PM i.e. the first twelve hours of a day before noon or the second twelve hours of a day after noon . Clock module may determine which one of AM or PM is associated with determined time B. Clock module may output determined time B along with a command to output an indication of the one of AM and PM associated with determined time B to UI module . UI module may cause presence sensitive screen to output determined time B and the indication of one of AM and PM e.g. the letters AM or the letters PM . In this example the start time of the calendar entry determined by clock module corresponds to twenty five minutes after one o clock PM and UI module causes presence sensitive screen to output determined time B along with the textual indication of PM near the center of the graphical representation of clock B.

Although described above as part of a calendar application determined time B should not be limited to a calendar event for instance determined time B may be associated with any one of a calendar event a timer setting a system clock setting and the like. In other words clock module may output determined time B to any application configured to receive a time from a graphical time selector. A calendar application an electronic message application an Internet browser an operating system settings application a stop watch application and a timer application are all example applications that may execute at computing device and may be configured to receive determined time B.

Computing device may determine time A based on the determined one of the first set of time increments A and a selected one of the second time increments A. That is clock module may receive one or more touch events about input A from gesture module . Clock module may compare location data of the touch events to locations associated with each of the second set of time increments A. Clock module may determine one of time increments A nearest the path of input A as being a selected one of time increments A. In the example of the selected one of time increments A corresponds to the one of time increments A represented by the value negative fifteen. Clock module may determine time A based on the determined one of time increments A e.g. eleven o clock and the selected one of time increments A e.g. negative fifteen . In this example determined time A corresponds to forty five minutes past ten o clock or in fifteen minutes to eleven o clock.

In other words computing device may receive an indication of input B from which gesture module may determine one or more touch events based on input B. From the touch events associated with input B clock module may determine one of first time increments B. Clock module may determine the one of first time increments B represented by one o clock as being the first time increment B nearest to the path of input B. Clock module may command UI module to cause presence sensitive screen to output for display a second set of time increments B proximate to the portion of presence sensitive screen where the indication of input B is received. For example illustrates the path of input B which traverses across a portion of presence sensitive screen in between two of the first set of time increments B and proximate to one second time increment B.

In addition to including the quantity of time based on the first time and the second time as indication B includes indication which represents the determined quantity of time between the first and second times. Indication is illustrated as a shaded area of clock B that approximates a region of clock B between the first determined one of time increments B and the second determined one of time increments B.

In response to determining one of time increments A clock module may command UI module to cause presence sensitive screen to output for display a second set of time increments A. That is when the indication of input A no longer moves near a different one of time increments A e.g. a user pauses providing input A clock module may command UI module to cause presence sensitive screen to output for display time increments A near the determine one of time increments A. Clock module may determine a time A based on the determined one of time increments A and a selected one of the second time increments A e.g. six hours and command UI module to cause presence sensitive screen to output time A for display at presence sensitive screen . In some examples none of the second time increments A may be selected e.g. when a user is continuing to provide input A to adjust the determined one of time increments A but momentarily pausing at one of time increments A and in this case clock module may determine time A without relying on a selected one of time increments A.

In the example of a computing device may output for display a graphical user interface comprising a clock having regions associated with a first set of time increments . For example a user of computing device may interact with an application that contains an option for inputting a time. The application may detect a selection of the option and in response the application may invoke clock module to output clock and handle receipt of a time entry from the user. In response to the invocation clock module may send data to UI module for outputting user interface including clock . In response to the internal communication from clock module UI module may cause UID to output user interface including clock and time increments at a presence sensitive screen of UID .

In the example of the computing device may receive an indication of an input at a portion of a presence sensitive input device corresponding to a location of a display device at which one of the regions of the clock is displayed . For example while UID outputs user interface at the presence sensitive screen of UID UID of computing device may detect a gesture input at the presence sensitive screen. Gesture module may receive data about the gesture input as UID receives the gesture and process the data input into a group of one or more touch events and share the one or more touch events with UI module and clock module .

In the example of the computing device may determine one of the first set of time increments . For example based on the locations of the one or more touch events clock module may determine that the touch events represent a gesture at a portion of the presence sensitive screen of UID at which UID presents one of regions of clock . Clock module may further determine that the locations of the one or more touch events represent a gesture at a portion of the presence sensitive screen of UID nearest to a location of the presence sensitive screen where UID presents a single one of time increments . Clock module may determine one of regions and one of time increments with locations closest to the locations of the touch events based on the gesture. Clock module may determine the touch events represent a selection of the nearest time increment of time increments .

In the example of the computing device may output for display and proximate to the location an indication representative of a second set of time increments . For example in response to identifying a selection of one time increment of time increments clock module may send a display command to UI module with instructions to output time increments . UI module may receive the instructions from clock and cause UID to output for display at the presence sensitive screen time increments proximate to the one selected time increment of time increments .

In the example of the computing device may determine a time based on the determined one of the first set of time increments and a selected one of the second time increments . For example after clock module sends instructions to UI module to cause UID to output time increments at the presence sensitive screen and at a location near the selected time increment of time increments clock module may receive additional touch events from gesture module . Gesture module may generate the additional touch events while continuing to receive the indication of the user input. Clock module may determine a selected one of time increments by comparing the location data of time increments received from UI module with the locations of the additional touch events. The selected one of time increments may correspond to one of time increments having a location nearest the additional touch events. Clock module may determine a selected one of one of time increments . Clock module may determine a time based on the determined one of time increments and the selected one of time increments . For example clock module may combine a time value associated with the one of time increments with a time value associated with the one of time increments to determine a time based on the user input. Clock module may command UI module to cause UID to output the determined time for display at the presence sensitive screen of UID . Clock module may output the determined time to the invoking application.

In one or more examples the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored on or transmitted over as one or more instructions or code a computer readable medium and executed by a hardware based processing unit. Computer readable media may include computer readable storage media which corresponds to a tangible medium such as data storage media or communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another e.g. according to a communication protocol. In this manner computer readable media generally may correspond to 1 tangible computer readable storage media which is non transitory or 2 a communication medium such as a signal or carrier wave. Data storage media may be any available media that can be accessed by one or more computers or one or more processors to retrieve instructions code and or data structures for implementation of the techniques described in this disclosure. A computer program product may include a computer readable medium.

By way of example and not limitation such computer readable storage media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices flash memory or any other medium that can be used to store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Also any connection is properly termed a computer readable medium. For example if instructions are transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. It should be understood however that computer readable storage media and data storage media do not include connections carrier waves signals or other transient media but are instead directed to non transient tangible storage media. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and Blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

Instructions may be executed by one or more processors such as one or more digital signal processors DSPs general purpose microprocessors application specific integrated circuits ASICs field programmable logic arrays FPGAs or other equivalent integrated or discrete logic circuitry. Accordingly the term processor as used herein may refer to any of the foregoing structure or any other structure suitable for implementation of the techniques described herein. In addition in some aspects the functionality described herein may be provided within dedicated hardware and or software modules. Also the techniques could be fully implemented in one or more circuits or logic elements.

The techniques of this disclosure may be implemented in a wide variety of devices or apparatuses including a wireless handset an integrated circuit IC or a set of ICs e.g. a chip set . Various components modules or units are described in this disclosure to emphasize functional aspects of devices configured to perform the disclosed techniques but do not necessarily require realization by different hardware units. Rather as described above various units may be combined in a hardware unit or provided by a collection of interoperative hardware units including one or more processors as described above in conjunction with suitable software and or firmware.

Various embodiments of the invention have been described. These and other embodiments are within the scope of the following claims.

