---

title: Radiopharmaceutical delivery device
abstract: A device for delivery of a radiopharmaceutical and, in some embodiments, delivery of a pharmaceutical agent are provided herein. A fluid path set comprising a confluence valve, a four-way valve, and one or more tubing sections which are designed to place some combination of a radiopharmaceutical source, a medical fluid source, and a pharmaceutical agent source in sterile fluid communication with a patient or a waste receptacle. Also provided are holders for the fluid path set, and a sterile fluid delivery kit comprising the holder and fluid path set. A fluid delivery system may accept the holder with the fluid path set installed and various sources of radiopharmaceuticals, pharmaceuticals, and medical fluids. The fluid delivery system allows for automated mixing and delivery of exact amounts of these agents to a patient while improving efficiency and safety, and reducing waste.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09039592&OS=09039592&RS=09039592
owner: Bayer Medical Care Inc.
number: 09039592
owner_city: Indianola
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130314
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional No. 61 656 716 filed Jun. 7 2012 entitled Radiopharmacuetical Delivery Device the contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

Contrast agents are provided by manufacturers in numerous concentrations in sterilized containers such as glass bottles or plastic packages ranging incrementally in size from 20 ml to 200 ml. These containers are generally designed for a single use in which once a container is opened for a patient then it is used for that patient only. The contrast is generally aspirated from such containers via a syringe pump used to inject the contrast agent and any contrast agent remaining in the container is discarded to prevent infection with potentially contaminated contrast. The medical staff is faced with the task of choosing an appropriately sized contrast container to assure an adequate injection while minimizing discarded contrast. Time consuming procedures are required to reload the syringe if more contrast is required than originally calculated and expensive waste results if only a portion of a filled syringe is injected. The inventory of contrast containers required under the current system increases costs and regulatory burdens throughout the contrast media supplier consumer chain.

Various embodiments are directed to a fluid delivery device including a confluence valve a four way valve a first tubing section in fluid communication with a first input and the confluence valve a second tubing section in fluid communication with a second input and the confluence valve a third tubing section in fluid communication with the confluence valve and the four way valve an output tubing section in fluid communication with the four way valve and at least one output fitting a waste tubing section in fluid communication with the four way valve and at least one waste receptacle an auxiliary tubing section in fluid communication with the four way valve and the confluence valve and one or more pumps operably connected to the fluid path. In particular embodiments the first input and the confluence valve the second tubing section in fluid communication with the second input and the confluence valve the third tubing section in fluid communication with the confluence valve and the four way valve the output tubing section in fluid communication with the four way valve and at least one output fitting the waste tubing section in fluid communication with the four way valve and at least one waste receptacle the auxiliary tubing section in fluid communication with the four way valve and the confluence valve may be provided in a fluid path set. In some embodiments these tubing sections and valves may be pre connected and configured to be placed within the device by a user. In particular embodiments the device or the fluid path may include a holder configured to hold a separate the components of the fluid path operably coupled to the fluid path.

In certain embodiments the fluid path may include a coil assembly disposed between the confluence valve and the four way valve in fluid communication with at least the third tubing section. In some embodiments the device may include well configured to accept the coil assembly and one or more radiation detectors may be associated with the well. These radiation detectors can be any type of radiation detector including for example ionization chambers CZT crystal detectors Geiger Muller counters scintillating counters parabolic detectors and combinations thereof.

In some embodiments at least one of the one or more pumps may be operably connected to the first tubing section the second tubing section or a combination thereof. In some embodiments a medical fluid storage container may be coupled to the first input and in certain embodiments the medical fluid storage container may be a cylindrical device having a plunger slidably inserted into the fluid storage container creating a seal and a motor operably associated with the plunger. In particular embodiments a fluid reservoir may be in fluid communication with the medical fluid storage container.

In some embodiments a vial spike may be coupled to the second input and in particular embodiments a pharmaceutical vial coupled to the second input or reversibly coupled to the second input. The pharmaceutical vial of some embodiments may include a radiopharmaceutical.

In some embodiments a pharmaceutical delivery port may be in fluid communication with the output tubing section and in particular embodiments a pharmaceutical delivery device may be operably connected with the pharmaceutical delivery port.

In certain embodiments the a control system operably connected to the one or more pumps and the control system may be at least capable of individually operating each of the one or more pumps. In some embodiments the device may include a graphical user interface operably connected to the control system.

In particular embodiments the device may include a body and in some embodiments the body may include troughs and wells configured to accommodate the fluid path. In certain embodiments a holder configured to hold a separate the components of the fluid path in position to be inserted into the troughs and wells of the body may be operably coupled to the fluid path. In some embodiments at least a portion of the body may include radioactive shielding. In some embodiments a lid attached to the body and the lid may be pivotably attached to the body. In certain embodiments the first input the second input the output fitting or combinations thereof may include a swabable valve.

Certain embodiments are directed to a fluid path set including a confluence valve a four way valve a first tubing section in fluid communication with a first input and the confluence valve a second tubing section in fluid communication with a second input and the confluence valve a third tubing section in fluid communication with the confluence valve and the four way valve an output tubing section in fluid communication with the four way valve and at least one output fitting a waste tubing section in fluid communication with the four way valve and at least one waste receptacle and an auxiliary tubing section in fluid communication with the four way valve and the confluence valve. In particular embodiments each of the first tubing section second tubing section a third tubing section output tubing section a waste tubing section and the auxiliary tubing section may be permanently attached to the confluence valve and four way valve. In some embodiments the fluid path set may further include a coil assembly disposed between the confluence valve and the four way valve in fluid communication with at least the third tubing section. In certain embodiments the fluid path set may include a medical fluid storage container coupled to the first input and the medical fluid storage container may include a cylindrical device having a plunger slidably inserted into the fluid storage container creating a seal. In some embodiments the fluid path set may include a connector configured to connect to a fluid reservoir in fluid communication with the fluid storage container.

In some embodiments the second input may include a vial spike. In other embodiments the fluid path set may include a pharmaceutical delivery port in fluid communication with the output tubing section. In certain embodiments the at least one waste receptacle may include an IV bag. The fluid path set of such embodiments may include various joints linear joints T joints 4 way joints valves check valves by pass valves stop cocks linkers luer linkers screw type linkers pressure fittings and the like and combinations thereof. In some embodiments the first input the second input the output fitting or combinations thereof may include a swabable valve. In certain embodiments the fluid path set may further include a holder operably coupled to the fluid path configured to hold a separate the components of the fluid path and in some embodiments the holder may be composed of a rigid material. In particular embodiments the holder may include one or more grooves designed an configured to accept one or more of the first tubing section second tubing section a third tubing section output tubing section a waste tubing section and the auxiliary tubing section. In some embodiments the holder may include one or more openings. In some embodiments the holder may include a vial spike permanently attached to a portion of the holder.

The above summary of the present invention is not intended to describe each illustrated embodiment or every possible implementation of the present invention. The detailed description which follows particularly exemplifies these embodiments.

Before the present compositions and methods are described it is to be understood that they are not limited to the particular compositions methodologies or protocols described as these may vary. It is also to be understood that the terminology used in the description is for the purpose of describing the particular versions or embodiments only and is not intended to limit their scope which will be limited only by the appended claims.

It must also be noted that as used herein and in the appended claims the singular forms a an and the include plural reference unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Unless defined otherwise all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meanings as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art. Although any methods and materials similar or equivalent to those described herein can be used in the practice or testing of embodiments disclosed the preferred methods devices and materials are now described.

 Optional or optionally means that the subsequently described event or circumstance may or may not occur and that the description includes instances where the event occurs and instances where it does not.

 Substantially no means that the subsequently described event may occur at most about less than 10 of the time or the subsequently described component may be at most about less than 10 of the total composition in some embodiments and in others at most about less than 5 and in still others at most about less than 1 .

For purposes of the description hereinafter the terms upper lower right left vertical horizontal top bottom lateral longitudinal and derivatives thereof shall relate to the orientation of embodiments disclosed in the drawing figures. However it is to be understood that embodiments may assume alternative variations and step sequences except where expressly specified to the contrary. It is also to be understood that the specific devices and processes illustrated in the attached drawings and described in the following specification are simply exemplary embodiments. Hence specific dimensions and other physical characteristics related to the embodiments disclosed herein are not to be considered as limiting.

It is to be understood that the disclosed embodiments may assume various alternative variations and step sequences except where expressly specified to the contrary. It is also to be understood that the specific devices and processes illustrated in the attached drawings and described in the following specification are simply exemplary embodiments.

The fluid delivery system generally includes a display or graphical user interface GUI attached to the body and positioned to allow a user to view the display . In some embodiments the display may be immovably fixed to the body and in other embodiments the display may be positioned away from the system and attached to the system by a hard wired or wireless network. In other embodiments the display may be pivotally connected to the body by means of one or more movable arm that is pivotally connected to a joint on the display and or a joint on the body . Such display may be configured to be tilted or swiveled with respect to the arm to allow the display to be positioned by an operator.

The display may be a color display a black and white display or a green screen display and in various embodiments the display may display real time data with regard to the operation of the system . In some embodiments the display may be configured to allow a user to program or otherwise operate the system . For example in certain embodiments the display may have touch screen capabilities or be otherwise configured to allow a user to interact with the system and in particular the computer portion of the system by manipulating or touching the display . In other embodiments the system may include a keyboard mouse microphone hand switch footswitch or other device configured to allow the user to program or otherwise operate the system . In still other embodiments the display may be included as part of a laptop or tablet computer that is electronically associated to the system by a hard wired or wireless network.

The body may include a retractable lid or cover having a primary handle including a latch release and in some embodiments the lid or cover may include a secondary handle not shown . In some embodiments the lid may include a locking mechanism such as a combination or a key lock not shown that is capable of interacting with the body to lock the lid in a closed position to prevent access of the system . In other embodiments the locking mechanism may be a software implemented lock such as a password protected access point that is accessible through the display and is adapted to lock the cover in a closed position and or to prevent access or operation of the system .

As illustrated in the lid may be movably attached to the body at an upper portion of the body and may cover an upper surface that defines a number of recessed portions including for example wells into which a vial or container of a pharmaceutical or a radiopharmaceutical and troughs into which various components of a fluid path set not shown can be positioned during an injection procedure. The lid may be reversibly moved with respect to the body to allow access to the recessed portions of the body and the lid may be configured to allow for insertion and removal of vials or containers that may be positioned within the wells and a fluid path set. In this manner the radiopharmaceutical vial and the components of the fluid path set can lie below the plane of upper surface of the body and can be completely covered by the lid . In other embodiments a drawer type mechanism may be used that slidably displaces a surface having recessed portions into and out of the body .

In some embodiments the system may include an interrupt button in that is configured to allow an operator to pause or abort an injection procedure in the event of for example patient discomfort or an emergency while by passing the display which also can be configured to allow the user to pause or abort an injection procedure. The interrupt button may be connected to LEDs and or a printed circuit board to provide visual and or auditory alarms when the interrupt button has been activated.

In some embodiments the lid upper surface and various other portions of the body may include suitable radioactive shielding such as lead for minimizing potential radiation exposure from the radiopharmaceutical to the operator. The upper surface or one or more portions thereof can be covered by the lid during use to limit radiation exposure to the operator other medical personnel patient and other observers. In particular embodiments the lid may be configured to be operated using one hand. For example in certain exemplary embodiments the lid may be attached to the body by a pivot that allows the door to easily pivot away from the work surface of the body during set up and pivot back over the work surface during operation. The pivot hinge of such embodiments may be position away from the work surface sufficiently such that when the lid is pivoted away from the work surface the entire work surface is exposed. Therefore the user can have access to any part of the system during set up. The lid may then pivot back to cover the entire work surface thereby shielding the user during operation of the system . Single hand operation may be achieved by positioning a handle and locking mechanism at a position in which the operator can unlock and pivot the door with one hand. In certain embodiments a motor may be used to assist the user in pivoting the door.

The recesses or troughs of the upper surface of the body may be configured to removably accept the components of the fluid path set and place the fluid path set in position to connect the wells pumps and so forth required for the fluid delivery system . The wells and troughs and the fluid path described thereby may be configured in any way to accommodate the necessary fluid path set.

The wells and recesses or troughs formed in the upper surface can be sized configured or arranged to accommodate any length design or configuration of the fluid path set and the various components of the fluid path set including pumps medical fluid containers or bags syringes and other medical delivery devices radiopharmaceutical vials vial shields ionization calibration chamber tubing waste receptacle and the like. Additionally the arrangement of components provided in are examples and the arrangement of the components may vary among embodiments. Therefore the wells and troughs may be configured to accommodate these various arrangements and the lengths of tubing necessary to connect the components in such arrangements. Thus the size i.e. the width depth and length of the wells and troughs may vary among embodiments. The various recesses and troughs of various embodiments may further include tubing holders for holding tube sections and preventing kinking and tangling.

As used herein the term fluid path set refers to a one or more sections of tubing designed and configured to fluidly connect elements of the fluid delivery system including a medical fluid source a radiopharmaceutical source a pharmaceutical source and the like to a fluid delivery tube configured to deliver medical fluid and the radiopharmaceutical and or the pharmaceutical to a patient. In various embodiments the one or more sections of tubing making up the fluid path set may be joined to one another in a manner that allows fluids traveling within the tubing to be carried to various portions of the system mixed with one another delivered to a patient or a waste receptacle. Thus the fluid path set may include one or more joints including but not limited to linear joints T joints 4 way joints and the like. In still other embodiments the one or more of the one or more joints may include valves such as for example check valves by pass valves stop cocks and the like and combinations thereof. The fluid path set of various embodiments may further include one or more linkers that link the fluid path set or portions thereof to the medical fluid radiopharmaceutical pharmaceutical and patient. Such linkers may include luer linkers screw type linkers pressure fittings and the like.

In some embodiments tube set may include a delivery tube section that is used on a per patient basis and discarded after use with a single patient to prevent for example cross contamination between patients that can be collectively be referred to as single patient delivery systems SPDS or patient administration set PAS . The remaining portions of the fluid path set in which the radiopharmaceutical is calibrated and prepared for delivery can be used for multiple patients and can be referred to as a multiple patient delivery system MPDS or source administration set SAS .

In embodiments including a rigid cylindrical medical fluid storage device stopper and motor the device may further include a means for refilling the medical fluid storage device either manually or automatically. For example in certain embodiments a fluid reservoir such as a saline bag as provided in may be removably attached to the medical fluid storage device when the medical fluid storage device has been emptied and can be used to introduce saline or other medical fluid into the medical fluid storage device . In some embodiments the first tubing section may be removed during refilling and the fluid reservoir may be attached to the medical fluid storage device through the connector associated with the first tubing section . In other embodiments an auxiliary port may be provided in the medical fluid storage device the connector to the first tubing section or a portion of the first tubing section shown and the fluid reservoir may be operably connected to the fluid path through the auxiliary port . In particular embodiments the fluid reservoir may be detached after the medical fluid storage device has been filled. In other embodiments the fluid reservoir may remain associated with the medical fluid storage device throughout use of the device and may be used to refill the medical fluid storage device more than one time before being detached from the medical fluid storage device .

In certain embodiments the medical fluid storage device may be a syringe like apparatus such as the dual zone syringe of . As illustrated such a dual zone syringe may have at least two zones a working zone which provides a reservoir for the medical fluid and a non working zone through which the plunger passes. The plunger may include any number of other features and may have any shape. For example in some embodiments the plunger may have a cylindrical shape with a conical shaped upper portion which may facilitate evacuation of the working zone of the syringe by substantially matching the shape of the upper portion of the syringe as shown . The lower portion of the plunger may be flat or may be shaped to contact a piston or other motor associated with the system that is positioned to advance the plunger through the syringe during use. The plunger may generally include at least two seals an upper seal that is in communication with the inner walls of the working portion of the syringe and seals fluid within the working zone and a lower seal that is in communication with the inner walls of the non working zone .

The upper and lower seals can be effectuated by any means. For example in certain embodiments an O ring may be set within a groove on the portions of the plunger associated with the upper and lower seals . In further embodiments working zone and the non working zone may have different diameters. For example in some embodiments the portion of the syringe making up the working zone may have a smaller diameter than the portion of the syringe making up the non working zone . This arrangement may avoid contamination between the working and non working zones . Without wishing to be bound by theory the inclusion of a sealed non working zone may prevent direct contact of ambient air with the inside walls of the working zone that will contact the medical fluid thereby preserving the sterility of the medical fluid touching the inner walls of the working zone during repeated use.

The syringe body may have any external features. For example as illustrated in the syringe may include connector flanges that circle the diameter of the syringe body and connect with similar flanges in the body of the system. The syringe body may further include a stop that halts advancement of the syringe into the body during insertion. In certain embodiments the syringe body may further include markings that can be read by the system to ensure the proper syringe is being used in the system . For example the system may detect a syringe that is the wrong size or does not include the dual zone system described above and provide a warning or shut the system down. Such markings may be a visible radio or a light tag and in particular embodiments the markings may be a series of etched grooves in the syringe body that can be identified by a light reader in the body of the device. In some embodiments the markings may be markings as described in U.S. Pat. No. 7 018 363 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

A second tubing section may be configured to transport fluid from a first well to the three way confluence valve . In some embodiments the first well may be configured to accommodate a one or more vial or container of a radiopharmaceutical and as such the first well may be individually shielded to reduce radiation exposure to the operator and patient. In other embodiments the first well may be configured to accommodate a vial or container disposed in a vial shield or pig as shown . In particular embodiments the first well may further include an individual lid or cap that also may be shielded to reduce radiation exposure . The second tubing section may allow transport of the radiopharmaceutical from the first well to the three way confluence valve and in certain embodiments the second tubing section may be configured to be placed within a pump which may be a peristaltic or in line pump. In still other embodiments the second tubing section may include a spike or other device for connecting with the radiopharmaceutical vial and drawing radiopharmaceutical from the vial . In further embodiments the second tubing section and or the first tubing section may include additional devices such as for example air detection devices pressure sensors and the like. Another embodiment not shown allows for a second radiopharmaceutical to be connected to the system creating a system in which two radiopharmaceuticals e.g. Technesium and Thallium can be connected to the system simultaneously. In this configuration the second radiopharmaceutical would be provided in a second vial in a separate pig. The tubing section associated with radiopharmaceutical would connect include a three way valve connecting tubing section connecting the first radiopharmaceutical to the system and a second tubing section connecting the second radiopharmaceutical to the system before the pump.

The three way confluence valve may be configured to allow fluid from the first tubing section and or the second tubing section to individually pass into the third tubing section . For example the three way confluence valve may be configured to allow fluid to flow from position c to position b allowing medical fluid from the medical fluid storage device to flow from the first tubing section directly into the third tubing section . The three way confluence valve may be reconfigured based on commands from the control system described below to allow fluid to flow from position a to position b allowing radiopharmaceutical to flow from the second tubing section into the third tubing section . In some embodiments the three way confluence valve may be configured to allow mixing of medical fluid and radiopharmaceutical by allowing fluid flow through both position c and position a through position b before entering the third tubing section .

The third tubing section may lead to a second well that is configured as a ionization calibration chamber . Thus the second well may include the components necessary to determine the radiation level of the fluid entering the second well . For example in various embodiments the second well may be associated with the components of detectors such as but not limited to a CZT crystal detector a Geiger Muller counter a scintillating counter or a parabolic detector such as the parabolic sensor disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 8 198 599 which is hereby incorporated by reference. The fluid path set may be configured in any way to allow emissions from the radiopharmaceutical to be quantified. For example in some embodiments the fluid path set may include a linear loop of tubing contained within the second well and fluid flow may be stopped for a period of time sufficient to allow quantification of the radioactive emissions from the radiopharmaceutical. In other embodiments as illustrated in the second well may be configured to accommodate a coil assembly portion of the fluid path set . The coil portion may provide sufficient residence time within the second well to allow for emission from the radiopharmaceutical to be quantified without stopping or slowing fluid flow through the device.

A fourth tubing section may extend from the second well to a three way valve or four way valve . As shown in a four way valve may regulate fluid flow from the fourth tubing section through port d of the four way valve into a waste tubing section out port f or an output tubing section out port e. The four way valve may further regulate fluid flow from an auxiliary tubing section through port g that is separately associated with the medical fluid source into the waste tubing section out port f or output tubing section out port e. In such embodiments the output tubing section may extend away from the four way valve toward a delivery tubing section through which the radiopharmaceutical is delivered to the patient. The waste tubing section may extend away from the four way valve to carry fluid to a waste receptacle and function to divert from for example a priming procedure to prepare the system for injection away from delivery tubing section and ultimately the patient. The auxiliary tubing section may be associated with a T joint or three way valve and may extend from the first tubing section to the four way valve . The auxiliary tubing section may be configured to transport fluid from the medical fluid source directly to the four way valve providing a by pass for the majority of the fluid path while allowing flow of medical fluid to the fluid delivery section and patient.

The four way valve of some embodiments may be designed as illustrated in I. shows a four way valve having a rotating internal stem and an external four way tubing connectors . In some embodiments the four way tubing connector may be prepared from a flexible material that has sufficient tensile strength to allow the valve to maintain a seal between the internal stem and the tubing connector and in other embodiments and rigid external tubing connector may be coupled to an semi rigid or rotating internal stem. In other embodiments the internal stem may include distal separations that allow the stem to be compressed slightly allowing for the tubing connector to be placed over internal stem during manufacture. In the cross sectional view provided in II the passageway through the internal stem can be seen. The passageway may be configured to allow passage of fluid through the passageways and in this drawing of neighboring tubing extensions only while sealing off the remaining passageways and . In various embodiments the stem may be designed to press fit into to the body of the device when the MPDS is properly positioned on the device.

The auxiliary or by pass tubing section may allow for the delivery of different fluids to a patient without mixing. For example in some embodiments medical fluid may be passed directly from the medical fluid storage container through the auxiliary or by pass tubing section to the four way valve which directs the medical fluid to the output tubing section and the delivery tubing section without mixing with radiopharmaceutical or other fluids contained within the remainder of the fluid path set . Thus the patient may continually receive medical fluid even when radiopharmaceutical is not being delivered. This arrangement further allows for the delivery of pharmaceutical from the pharmaceutical delivery port described below without the administering radiopharmaceutical.

In still further embodiments the system may include additional auxiliary tubing sections not shown . Such additional auxiliary tubing sections may carry any medical fluid to the patient and additional auxiliary tubing sections may integrate into the tubing set through 5 6 7 or 8 way valves positioned in place of the four way valve described above or additional 3 4 5 or 6 way valves may be incorporated into the tube set at one or more locations such as for example in the output tubing section . In various embodiments additional auxiliary tubing sections may be associated with saline or other medical fluids pharmaceutical or other fluid that may be required for particular patients. The multiport valves of various embodiments including the four way valve described above may be commercially available multi port valves or may be specially designed to limit mixing between input tubes.

In yet further embodiments including a three way valve not shown the auxiliary tubing section may be absent. The fourth tubing section may deliver fluid to the three way valve where the fluid can be diverted from port d through port f into the waste tubing section and waste receptacle or bag or from port d through port e to the output tubing section and toward the delivery tubing section .

In some embodiments the sixth tubing section may terminate in an output fitting which may be a connector or adaptor or other fitting configured to operably connect the output tubing section to the delivery tubing section . In particular embodiments the connector at the terminus of the output tubing section may be a swabable valve that can be disinfected or washed when the delivery tubing section is replaced between patients.

The MPDS portion of this fluid path set may include any tubing section from the medical fluid storage device to the connector of the output tubing section and is indicated by the components within the dashed line box. In various embodiments the MPDS may include a connector such as a spike or luer lock for connecting the MPDS to the medical fluid storage device a spike or vented cannula for connecting to radiopharmaceutical vial a coil assembly a connector for a waste receptacle not shown a connector for the output tubing section and various connectors and tube sections connecting these elements. In some embodiments the MPDS may further include the various valves as described above . In certain embodiments the connector for connecting the MPDS to the medical fluid storage device may include a means for sensing the MPDS and the medical fluid storage device . Embodiments are not limited to a particular sensing device. For example a tag including a bar code or radiofrequency identification RFID may be associated with MPDS may be read by the connector or at the connection site to ensure that the proper MPDS is connected to the system. In other embodiments an optical system such as that described in U.S. Pat. No. 7 018 363 may be used to encode the connectors.

Each component of the MPDS may be pre connected and can be stored in a sterile packet or container for use in a fluid delivery system and in certain embodiments the upper portion of the body may be configured to accept a tray or holder designed to hold and separate the components of the MPDS in a position to be inserted into the troughs and wells of the device without realignment by the operator. shows the contents of a sterile packet which includes the holder which can have one or more grips configured to be grasped by the user during insertion and removal of the MPDS from the system and various troughs for routing the tubing sections . The packet may further include a medical fluid storage reservoir or a container such as the syringe provided in for storing and introducing medical fluid such as saline into the fluid path set a waste receptacle and a coil assemble that can be incorporated into an ionization chamber. A spike or vented cannula for connecting the tube set to a vial of radiopharmaceutical and a fitting such as a luer connector for connecting the MPDS to an SPDS. The packet also includes the various tubing sections necessary to connect these elements as well as valves or tubing configured to be incorporated into a valve and sections of tubing configured to be introduced into pumps . Using the holder and the packet the operator can introduce the MPDS into the system without individually inserting each tube section valve or connector into the system. Rather the user can introduce the tube set into the system by merely placing the holder into the corresponding groove in the device inserting the medical fluid storage reservoir or a container waste receptacle and coil assemble into the appropriate wells and connecting the tube set to the pumps where appropriate.

The container or vial of radiopharmaceutical may be any suitable container known in the art and the well for holding the radiopharmaceutical may be configured to accept any such container or vial and securely hold the container during use. In some embodiments an adaptor may be used that encases all or a portion of the vial or container before it is placed in the well to ensure that the vial or container is secured within the well . In still further embodiments the adaptor may be prepared from or include a material that blocks emission of the radioactive particles from the radiopharmaceutical.

In particular embodiments the vial or container may be a multi dose container configuration to hold and store a sufficient amount of radiopharmaceutical for delivery to a plurality of patients in a single container. In other embodiments the well may be configured to hold more than one container or vial for holding and storing radiopharmaceuticals. In some embodiments each container in the multi container configuration may include individual doses of radiopharmaceutical sufficient for administration to a single patient. In other embodiments each container or vial may hold and store multiple doses of the radiopharmaceutical and the system may be configured such that doses of the radiopharmaceutical can be pulled from a new vial when the proceeding vial is used to completion. In still other embodiments a different radiopharmaceutical composition may be held and stored in each of two or more different multi dose containers and in such embodiments the system may be configured to deliver different radiopharmaceutical compositions either simultaneously to a single patient or consecutively to different patients during different procedures. In still further embodiments a micro fluidic device or other radiopharmaceutical generation technology capable of real time generation of a radiopharmaceutical can be included as part of the multi dose container configuration.

The system may further include a pharmaceutical delivery port that includes a a 3 way connector a check valve that only allows fluid to flow one way from the stress agent to the main line only and a connector for connecting a syringe or vial including a pharmaceutical agent such as a stimulant to the system thereby providing a pharmaceutical delivery port . In some embodiments the pharmaceutical delivery port makes up a portion of the delivery tubing section as illustrated in . In other embodiments the pharmaceutical delivery port may be incorporated into the output tubing section between the three or four way valve and the connector . The pharmaceutical delivery port may be any type of port known in the art such as but not limited to a luer a needle vial adaptor needleless vial adaptor or other fitting capable of accepting a delivery device such as a syringe or vial. The delivery port may further include a T joint or a three way valve or stopcock. The pharmaceutical delivery port may be configured to allow for the introduction of a pharmaceutical agent into the delivery tubing section during a procedure. For example in some embodiments a syringe holding a pharmaceutical agent may be fitted to the pharmaceutical delivery port and the pharmaceutical agent may be introduced into the delivery tubing section during the procedure either manually by depressing a plunger in the syringe or automatically using a motor associated with the plunger or a pump delivering an appropriate dose of the pharmaceutical to the patient. In other embodiments fluid may be diverted into the syringe or vial by the pharmaceutical delivery port where the pharmaceutical is mixed with the fluid before being introduced back into the pharmaceutical delivery port and out to the delivery tube section . In additional embodiments the system may include one or more pumps motors or the like associated with the pharmaceutical delivery port delivery device output tubing section or delivery tube section . In some embodiments the SPDS connector can be encoded through RFID light sensors mechanical sensors etc. to ensure that the correct SPDS is connected. This ensures that the correct protocol is executed with the correct SPDS.

The sixth tube section and the delivery tube section may be an integral part of the fluid path set or in other embodiments the delivery tube section and or the sixth tube section pharmaceutical delivery port and other components associated with this portion of the fluid path set may be one or more separate fluid path sets configured to attach to the fluid path set by for example a luer fitting or swabable valve. For example in some embodiments as illustrated in the delivery tube section may include a first end that can be reversibly attached to the connector associated with the output tubing section and a patient end having a connector such as a luer connector that is capable of being attached to for example a catheter IV needle intravenous port or the like that can be used to deliver the radiopharmaceutical to a patient. In other embodiments the delivery tube section may have a first end that can be reversibly attached to the pharmaceutical delivery port or a T joint or three way valve associated with the fluid delivery port . In still other embodiments the delivery tubing section the output tubing section and any intervening device or tube section such as the pharmaceutical delivery port may be separately reversibly connected to the fluid path set . In some embodiments the pharmaceutical delivery port may be absent blocked or otherwise eliminated such that the radiopharmaceutical can be delivered in the absence of the addition of an additional pharmaceutical or stimulating agent.

Embodiments are not limited to a particular pharmaceutical agent and any agent that is known or may be usefully administered may be contained within the syringe and administered to the patient during a procedure. For example in some embodiments the pharmaceutical agent may be a stress agent such as but not limited to IV Dobutamine IV Dipyridiamole Persantine IV Adenosine Adenoscan IV Lexiscan Regadenoson and the like. In other embodiments the pharmaceutical agent may reduce vasodilation such as for example IV Aminophylline. In still other embodiments the system may include a first pharmaceutical delivery port and a second pharmaceutical delivery port not shown . In such embodiments a first syringe associated with the first pharmaceutical delivery port that holds a stress agent and a second syringe associated with the second pharmaceutical deliver port may include a pharmaceutical that acts to reduce vasodilation and act as an antidote to stress agent allowing the user to reduce the stress under which the patient is placed as part of the procedure or as a precaution in the event of an adverse event. The pharmaceutical agent can be introduced into the fluid flow through the pharmaceutical delivery port continuously or in one or more controlled doses.

The delivery tube section may be configured to connect to typical patient delivery apparatuses such as IV needles ports catheters or other means for delivering intravenous pharmaceuticals. In other embodiments the delivery tube section may incorporate such delivery devices. In still other embodiments the delivery tube section may be configured to connect to other sections of tubing which may incorporate the delivery apparatuses.

In some embodiments the system may include one or more additional components including but are not limited to pinch valves air detectors and mounts or retainers for holding the connector ends of the delivery tube section and the like and combinations thereof. In particular embodiments pinch valves may be powered and controlled by the fluid delivery system and or manually operated. In other embodiments the pinch valves can be replaced with a manual or automated 3 way stop cock. The fluid delivery system may include one or more pumping mechanisms configured to facilitate the movement of liquids from wells in the body to the delivery tube section of the fluid path set at any position in the system . Any suitable type of pumping mechanism can be used including but not limited to piston driven syringe pumps gear pumps rotary pumps in line pumps and peristaltic pumps. In some embodiments the pumping mechanism may be peristaltic pump. In various embodiments the pumping mechanism may be opened to receive a length of tubing associated with the fluid path set .

The output tubing section may terminate in a connector configured to connect the MPDS with an SPDS . In some embodiments the connector end of the MPDS may be a swabable luer valve that is biased to close or seal off the connector end of the MPDS when the SPDS is not connected. The swabable luer valve prevents the MPDS from being contaminated and allows an operator to swab or clean the connector end using for example an alcohol wipe prior to connecting an SPDS to the connector. In other embodiments the connector end may be a standard luer connector or another connector as known in the art.

The tubing of each of the sections of the MPDS and SPDS may be prepared from the same or different materials. For example in various embodiments the tubing may be silicone C Flex standard PVC silicone like PVC material or pump tubing. In particular embodiments the microbore tubing of second tubing section may be formed from for example silicone C Flex or silicone like PVC material and the other tubing sections and tube coil may be formed from any suitable polymeric material including standard PVC.

The dimensions of the components of the MPDS as shown in including the various tubing sections may vary among embodiments and may depend for example on the procedure for which the system is being used and the type and amount of radiopharmaceutical being delivered. In certain exemplary embodiments the first tubing section may be about 3 inches to about 4 inches in length or 3.4 inches in length may have an outer diameter OD of about 0.05 inches to about 0.25 inches or about 0.17 inches and an inner diameter ID of about 0.05 inches to about 0.15 inches or about 0.08 inches and may have an about 90 to about 95 Shore A durometer. The second tubing section may be about 7 inches to about 10 inches in length or about 8.9 inches in length and can be formed of microbore tubing having an OD of about 0.05 inches to about 0.10 inches or about 0.09 inches an ID of about 0.01 inches to about 0.07 inches or about 0.03 inches and an about 35 to about 55 or about 45 Shore A durometer. The use of microbore tubing in second tubing section improves volume accuracy and thereby improves measured activity accuracy i.e. of pharmaceutical delivered to the patient and reduces radiopharmaceutical waste. The third tubing section may be about 9.0 to about 14 inches in length or about 11.75 inches in length may have an OD of about 0.05 inches to about 0.25 inches or about 0.17 inches and an ID of about 0.05 inches to about 0.15 inches or about 0.08 inches and may have an about 90 to about 95 Shore A durometer. The fourth tubing section may be about 8.0 inches to about 12 inches in length or approximately 10.5 inches in length may have an OD of about 0.05 inches to about 0.25 inches or about 0.17 inches and an ID of about 0.05 inches to about 0.15 inches or about 0.08 inches and may have an about 90 to about 95 Shore A durometer. The waste tubing section and the output tubing section may each be about 1.0 inches to about 5.0 inches in length or approximately 3.0 inches in length may have an OD of about 0.05 inches to about 0.25 inches or about 0.17 inches and an ID of about 0.05 inches to about 0.15 inches or about 0.08 inches and may have an about 90 to about 95 Shore A durometer. The tubing in tube coil may be from about 20 inches to about 55 inches in length or approximately 41.75 inches in length has an OD of about 0.10 inches to about 0.30 inches or about 0.22 inches and an ID of about 0.05 inches to about 0.20 inches about 0.16 inches and may have an about 90 to about 95 Shore A durometer. All of these dimensions are provided for exemplary purposes only and are not to be construed as limiting the present disclosure.

The MPDS may include a coil assembly . The coil assembly may generally include a section of that is simply gathered tubing in a coiled or an uncoiled amorphous fashion and placed inside ionization calibration chamber . In some embodiments the coil assembly may be an individually constructed unit and in other embodiments the coil assembly may include all or portions of third tubing section and fourth tubing section . The coil assembly of various embodiments positions the radiopharmaceutical such that the radioactivity level of the radiopharmaceutical in the tube coil can be measured by the components surrounding the ionization calibration chamber . More specifically the coil assembly orients and locates the radiopharmaceutical within a linear region of the ionization calibration chamber to more accurately measure its activity level and prepare an optimal dose for injection into a patient.

In some embodiments the tubing may be coiled on itself or stacked in a coil by bonding the tubing layers and in other embodiments as illustrated in the coil assembly may include a core element or structure that is configured to allow the tube coil to be wrapped around the core element . As such the tube coil can be formed on the core element . The core element may be configured to facilitate optimal positioning of the tube coil and may be sized to fit within the ionization calibration chamber of the body . In some embodiments the core element may include a tube channel between an upper shoulder and a lower shoulder . The tube coil may be retained within the tube channel and between the upper and lower shoulders to hold the tube coil in position and prevent kinking. In further embodiments an upper surface of core element may include one or more inlet channels or grooves and an outlet channel or groove to accommodate third tubing section and fourth tubing section respectively.

In various embodiments the coil assembly may be positioned concentrically in the ionization calibration chamber . In some embodiments the core element may be self centering when inserted into the ionization chamber of the fluid delivery system to facilitate optimal positioning and performance. This may be achieved either through structural features of the coil assembly the structure of core element or a combination thereof. For example in some embodiments the upper shoulder the lower shoulder or both can be configured to associate with an outer wall of the ionization calibration chamber . For example the core element may include additional features such as for example extensions indentations or notches may be provided on the core element either on the upper or lower shoulders or another portion of the coil assembly that engage corresponding elements in the ionization calibration chamber to aid in the proper positioning of the tube coil . In other embodiments the lower shoulder may be sized to provide an appropriate distance between the lower surface of the ionization calibration chamber when the lower shoulder contacts the lower surface of the ionization calibration chamber or a diameter that corresponds with a the appropriate diameter of the ionization calibration chamber .

With reference to in particular embodiments the core element and the tube coil may be sized and dimensioned so that the coil assembly can be optimally positioned within the linear region of the ionization calibration chamber . The linear region of an ionization chamber refers to the region of the chamber in which activity level measurements are repeatable and predictable. For an exemplary ionization calibration chamber Model IK 102 Short Ionization Chamber provided by Veenstra Instruments the linear region is located within a window of about 5 mm to about 65 mm measured from the base or bottom wall of the ionization calibration chamber . The tube coil of various embodiments may have a volume capacity of about 1 ml to about 10 ml or about 1.5 ml to about 7 ml and may be configured in any way to achieve the desired volume. Moreover the tube coil may have any number of turns. For example in some embodiments the tube coil may have about 4 to about 10 turns and in other embodiments the tube coil may have about 5 to about 7 turns. In various embodiment the tube coil may have one or more or turns that allow appropriate placement of the third tube section and fourth tube section . A tube coil having this number of turns may be formed from an length of tubing sufficient to make the desired number of turns based on the diameter of the core element . For example a core element having a diameter w of about 0.5 in to about 4 in or about 1 in to about 3 may require tubing having a length of about 5 in to about 24 in about 8 in to about 15 in or about 10 in to about 12 in. The height h of the tube coil may similarly vary depending on the number of turns the diameter of the tubing and the diameter to the core element. For example a tube coil having from about 5 to about 7 turns may have a height h of from about 0.5 in to about 8 in or about 1 in to about 5 in. The tube coil may be prepared from any type of tubing however in certain embodiment the tubing may have an OD of from about 0.01 in to about 0.5 in and an ID of about 0.025 to about 0.5 in.

In various embodiments the fluid delivery system may include a control system schematically represented in in communication with the various components of the injector system that for the purposes of the schematic of can include for example pumps motors ionization calibration chamber interrupt button air detectors valves stopcocks and the like. The control system may generally control the operation of the injector system while also providing an interface with input and output devices such as the display printer and network devices used to program and direct the action of the injector system .

The control system may include but is not limited to at least one computer having certain components for appropriate operation execution of code and creation and communication of data. The computer includes one or more processing units typically referred to as a central processing unit or CPU that serves to execute computer based instructions received in the appropriate data form and format. Further this processing unit may be in the form of multiple processors executing code in series in parallel or in any other manner for appropriate implementation of the computer based instructions. As used herein the computer may be operably configured to execute appropriate software to perform and implement the processing steps of the methods and systems disclosed herein. The system may include one or more computers or similar computing devices having a computer readable storage medium capable of storing computer readable program code or instructions that cause the processing unit to execute configure or otherwise implement the methods processes and transformational data manipulations discussed herein. Still further the computer may be in the form of a personal computer coupled to the fluid delivery system a processor formed integrally with the fluid delivery system a computer provided remotely from the fluid delivery system or any other type of computing device having the necessary processing hardware to appropriately process data to effectively implement the method and system described herein.

The control system may further include a system bus to facilitate appropriate data communication and processing information between the various components of the computer . The system bus may be any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus or a local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. In particular embodiments the system bus may facilitate data and information communication between the various components whether internal or external to the computer through interfaces.

In some embodiments the computer may include one or more discrete computer readable media components. For example computer readable media may include any media that can be accessed by the computer such as volatile media non volatile media removable media non removable media and the like. In certain embodiments the computer readable media may include computer storage media such as media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data including but not limited to random access memory RAM read only memory ROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVDs or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the computer . In some embodiments the computer readable media may include communications media such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism. In other embodiments the computer readable media may include any information delivery media wired media such as a wired network and a direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic signals radio frequency signals optical signals infrared signals biometric signals bar code signals etc. . Combinations of any of the above are also included within the scope of computer readable media.

In still other embodiments the computer may further include system memory with computer storage media such as volatile and non volatile memory ROM and or RAM. A basic input output system BIOS with appropriate computer based routines assists in transferring information between components within the computer and can be stored in ROM. The RAM portion of the system memory typically contains data and program modules that are immediately accessible to or presently being operated on by processing unit e.g. an operating system application programming interfaces application programs program modules program data and other instruction based computer readable code.

The computer may also include other removable or non removable volatile or non volatile computer storage media products. For example the computer may include a non removable memory interface that communicates with and controls a hard disk drive i.e. a non removable non volatile magnetic medium a removable non volatile memory interface that communicates with and controls a magnetic disk drive unit which reads from and writes to a removable non volatile magnetic disk an optical disk drive unit which reads from and writes to a removable non volatile optical disk such as a CD ROM a Universal Serial Bus USB port for use in connection with for example a removable memory card . Other removable or non removable volatile or non volatile computer storage media can be used in the exemplary computing system environment including but not limited to magnetic tape cassettes DVDs digital video tape solid state RAM solid state ROM and the like. These removable or non removable volatile or non volatile magnetic media are in communication with the processing unit and other components of the computer via the system bus . The drives and their associated computer storage media discussed above and illustrated in provide storage of operating systems computer readable instructions application programs data structures program modules program data and other instruction based computer readable code for the computer whether duplicative or not of the information and data in the system memory .

In particular embodiments the fluid delivery system may be configured to allow a user to enter commands information and data into the computer using the touch screen of the GUI display via an operator input interface . However it has been envisioned that an operator may enter commands information and data into the computer using other attachable or operable input devices such as a keyboard a mouse a remote control device a microphone a trackball a joystick a touchpad a scanner a tablet computer and the like via the operator input interface . Any arrangement that facilitates the input of data and information to the computer from an outside source may be used including for example hard wiring or accessing using a wireless network device such as Bluetooth a wireless internet connection or a cellular connection. As discussed these and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit through the operator input interface coupled to the system bus but may be connected by other interface and bus structures such as a parallel port game port or a USB.

In still further embodiments data and information can be presented or provided to an operator in an intelligible form or format through certain output devices such as the GUI display to visually display this information and data in electronic form a printer to physically display this information and data in print form a speaker to audibly present this information and data in audible form etc. All of these devices are in communication with the computer through an output interface coupled to the system bus .

The computer may operate in a network environment through the use of a communications device which is integral to the computer or remote. This communications device is operable by and in communication with the other components of the computer through a communications interface . Using such an arrangement the computer may connect with or otherwise communicate with one or more remote computers such as a remote computer of a hospital information system which typically includes many or all of the components described above in connection with the computer . Using appropriate communications devices such as for example a modem a network interface adapter telephone line cellular telephone connection wifi network and the like the computer may operate within and communicate through a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN but may also include other networks such as a virtual private network VPN an office network an enterprise network an intranet the Internet and the like and combinations thereof. It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers may be used.

Generally the fluid delivery system of embodiments described above may be configured to deliver a radiopharmaceutical drawn from a bulk radiopharmaceutical vial in . A dose of the radiopharmaceutical may be withdrawn from the bulk radiopharmaceutical vial contained in the first well and passed though the coil assembly of the fluid path set in the ionization calibration chamber . The radioactive activity i.e. the average emission of the dose of radiopharmaceutical can be determined based on measurements made in the ionization calibration chamber . The system may be configured to determine the volume of a dose having a desired activity level based on the measured amount of radioactive activity and the volume of a test sample. The system may then draw the proper amount of radiopharmaceutical to deliver the appropriate dose of radiopharmaceutical as identified by the user to the patient.

The fluid delivery system may further be configured for priming i.e. purging air from the MPDS delivering a radiopharmaceutical to a patient providing a saline flush to remove residual radiopharmaceutical while minimizing or eliminating exposing the individuals operating system to the radiopharmaceutical and minimizing or eliminating contaminated waste. Moreover MPDS and other elements disclosed herein also facilitate safe delivery of the pharmaceutical to multiple destinations for example dose delivery to a series of patients .

The system may be further configured to provide feedback information to the operator. For example in some embodiments the system may provide the operator with information regarding the administration such as but not limited to the dosage of radiopharmaceutical delivered to the patient by milligram mg volume ml and or radioactive activity mCi the amount of other pharmaceutical composition delivered to the patient mg ml the flow rate of the radiopharmaceutical or other pharmaceutical ml s the amount of saline administered ml dosing time i.e. the time required for delivery the delivery time i.e. the time of day date and the fluid pressure in the delivery system during delivery. In particular embodiments the system may further provide the operator with absorption data with regard to the particular radiopharmaceutical administered including the expected amount of the radiopharmaceutical absorbed by particular organs such as brain lung liver kidney bladder bone thyroid heart breast stomach colon and skin. In some embodiments the system may reference patient data to determine the amount of radiopharmaceutical administered to the particular patient over time and provide a warning to the operator if absorbed levels become too high. In various embodiments the information may be provided to the operator in real time or provide an estimate of the absorption based on the planned dose prior to an injection.

Following administration or the completion of an administration protocol the system may provide a summary of the procedure including any relevant data. For example in various embodiments the system may provide the dosage of radiopharmaceutical delivered to the patient by milligram mg volume ml and or radioactive activity mCi the amount of other pharmaceutical composition delivered to the patient mg ml the flow rate of the radiopharmaceutical or other pharmaceutical ml s the amount of saline administered ml dosing time i.e. the time required for delivery the delivery time i.e. the time of day date and the fluid pressure in the delivery system during delivery and the like and combinations thereof. The system may further provide absorption data such as that described above.

The data provided either in real time during performance of the protocol or in summary of the procedure may be provided numerically or graphically and in certain embodiments the screens providing the data may provide both numeric and graphic data simultaneously.

The system may further provide the patients name and any critical data such as height weight allergies disease being treated or tested for the procedure to be performed the location of the injection infusion site and the like and various combinations thereof. Such data may be inputted at the time of the procedure or may be inputted prior to the procedure. In certain embodiments the operator may input the patients name and the system may retrieve appropriate patient data from electronically archived patient records using a computer network or Internet connection. In still further embodiments the system may store patient information for more than one procedure. For example in some embodiments a patient schedule including a series of patient scheduled to undergo procedures in the course of a number of hours a day a week and so on or any time period therebetween may be inputted into the system and the system may store patient information for the time period necessary to complete the procedures scheduled. As above patient data for the schedule may be provided in advance of completion of the patient schedule or the system may retrieve patient information from electronic patient archives.

The system may further be configured to run a self check to determine for example the level of various fluids in the system including the amount of radiopharmaceutical remaining the amount of medical fluid remaining the amount of the other pharmaceutical remaining the amount of waste and the like and combinations thereof. In some embodiments the system may be configured to provide a warning when insufficient radiopharmaceutical other pharmaceutical or medical fluid remains to complete a procedure or the waste receptacle reaches a particular level of fullness. The system may further provide information regarding the internal pressure temperature of the system or portions thereof computer system power supply battery life pump status motor status the number of protocols carried out with an MPDS and the like and combinations thereof. In some embodiments the system may be configured to provide an audible or visual warning when the system pressure drops below a minimum or rises above a maximum level. The system may also provide warnings if pump fails or the temperature in the calibration chamber or vial holding well reaches a critical level power is lost or other interruption in the procedure is identified. In certain embodiments the system may automatically stop without input from the operator when critical parameters have been reached to avoid injury to the patient.

The systems of various embodiments may be configured to deliver any radiopharmaceutical known in the art and the radiopharmaceutical may be delivered alone or in combination with another pharmaceutical composition. For example in some embodiments the system may be designed and configured to deliver Ca Ca C L methyl methionine C glycocholic acid C para amino benzoic acid PABA C urea C d xylose Cr red blood cells Cr Cr Cr ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid EDTA Co cyanocobalamin vitamin B Co cyanocobalamin vitamin B Er colloid F fluorodeoxyglucose FDG F fluoride F fluorocholine Ga dotatoc or dotatate H water In diethylenetriaminepenta acetic acid DTPA In leukocytes In platelets In pentetreotide In ocetreotide I iodide I o iodohippurate I m iodobenzylguanidine MIBG I FP CIT I fibrinogen I iodide I iodide I m iodobenzylguanidine MIBG Fe Fe or Fe Kr aqueous N ammonia O water P phosphate Rb chloride Sm ethylenediaminotetramethylenephosphoric acid EDTMP Se selenorcholesterol Se 23 Seleno 25 homo tauro cholate SeHCAT Na Na Na Na Sr chloride Tc pertechnetate Tc human albumin Tc human albumin macroaggregates or microspheres Tc phosphonates and phosphate Tc diethylenetriaminepenta acetic acid DTPA Tc dimercaptosuccinic acid V DMSA Tc dimercaptosuccinic acid III DMSA Tc colloid Tc hepatic iminodiacetic acid HIDA Tc denatured red bood cells Tc red blood cells Tc mercaptoacetyltriglycine MAG3 Tc exametazime sestamibi MIBI methoxy isobutyl isonitrile Tc sulesomab IMMU MN3 murine Fab SH antigranulocyte monoclonal antibody fragments Tc human immunoglobulin Tc tetrofosmin Tc ethyl cysteinate dimer ECD Tl Tl Xe in isotonic sodium chloride solution Y silicate and the like and combinations thereof. In certain embodiments the system may be configured for delivery of radiopharmaceuticals for imaging myocardial or other cardiovascular conditions during for example a stress tests. In such embodiments the system may be configured to deliver F fluorodeoxyglucose FDG N ammonia O Water Rb Chloride Tc pertechnetate Tc human albumin Tc human albumin macroaggregates or microspheres Tc diethylenetriaminepenta acetic acid DTPA Tc denatured red blood cells Tc red blood cells Tc exametazime Tc sestamibi MIBI methoxy isobutyl isonitrile Tc tetrofosmin Tl Tl and the like and combinations thereof.

In some embodiments the system may be configured to administer a single radiopharmaceutical composition and in other embodiments the system may be configured to deliver two or more different radiopharmaceuticals. In embodiments in which the system is configured to deliver multiple radiopharmaceuticals the system may allow the operator to switch configurations depending on the intended procedure. The amount of radiopharmaceutical delivered by the system may vary among embodiments and based on the protocol being used. Generally a physician or other qualified medical personnel can determine an appropriate amount of the radiopharmaceutical to be delivered to a particular patient using metrics regarding the patient known in the art. Because of the flexibility of the system any amount of radiopharmaceutical can be delivered.

The system may likewise be configured to deliver any other pharmaceutical composition alone or in addition to the radiopharmaceutical. For example in various embodiments the system may be configured to administer stress agent such as but not limited to IV dobutamine IV dipyridiamole Persantine IV adenosine Adenoscan IV lexiscan Regadenoson and the like and combinations thereof. In other embodiments the pharmaceutical agent may reduce vasodilation such as for example IV aminophylline. The amount of other pharmaceutical or stimulant delivered by the system may vary among embodiments and based on the protocol being used and a physician or other qualified medical personnel can determine an appropriate amount of the pharmaceutical to be delivered based on patient metrics known in the art. Because of the flexibility of the system any amount of other pharmaceutical can be delivered.

The system may be configured to deliver the radiopharmaceutical and other pharmaceutical or stimulant separately or simultaneously depending on the protocol used. For example in some embodiments the radiopharmaceutical may be administered to the patient followed by the administration of the other pharmaceutical or stimulant and in other embodiments the radiopharmaceutical and other pharmaceutical or stimulant may be administered simultaneously be the system. In still other embodiments the other pharmaceutical may be administered and the radiopharmaceutical may be delivered at an appropriate time following administration of the other pharmaceutical. For example in certain embodiments a stimulant may be administered to a patient and a radiopharmaceutical may be administered based on real time patient data such as a target heart rate pulse and the like. Similarly the system may be configured to administer additional pharmaceuticals based on real time patient data. For example if real time patient data indicates that a particular patient metric such as heart rate is too high a depressant may be administered.

Other capabilities and functions not expressly discussed hereinabove or shown in the drawings are of course conceivable in accordance with the embodiments. For example if the extraction of a dose of the radiopharmaceutical from a vial is interrupted the system could alert the operator to discard the dose and present a button for that purpose on the GUI.

Various embodiments are directed to methods for using the system and devices encompassed by the system. show schematics for some exemplary methods of the invention. The exemplary procedure provided below describes the use of a first volume i.e. a first bolus or slug and a second volume i.e. a second bolus or slug of a radiopharmaceutical that is delivered to a patient. This is not to be construed as limiting the injection procedure disclosed. Any suitable number of slugs may be delivered to the patient including for example 1 2 3 4 5 6 and so on volumes of radiopharmaceutical. In some embodiments the number of slugs can be increased until there is a continuous flow of radiopharmaceutical into the system. Thus the activity of the radiopharmaceutical entering the ion chamber can be continuously measured to prepare the dose to provide a real time activity measurement as the dose is being prepared. This can be displayed to the user as it is being prepared on the GUI.

Generally the injection procedure can be divided into five phases as represented in the flow chart of 1 an initialization phase 2 a calibration phase 3 a delivery phase 4 a procedure review phase in which it is determined whether another injection shall be performed and the injection procedure is reinitiated or the injection procedure is complete and 5 a shutdown phase .

In some embodiments before starting the injection procedure the operator may determine i the desired amount of radiopharmaceutical to be delivered to the patient based on the activity of the radiopharmaceutical Ar and ii the estimated concentration of activity in the vial Cv i.e. the activity per unit of volume MBq ml . These data may be provided to the system controller. In other embodiments data provided to the controller may further include the type of radiopharmaceutical provided in the system patient information including for example patient name and vital statistics for the patient the treating physician the time of day and or date the type or procedure to be performed the type of procedure and patient information for procedures to be performed before or after the procedure the name and or identification number of the operator a password or other security measure and the like and combinations thereof. The methods of various embodiments may include the step of inputting such information before beginning the procedure. In certain embodiments methods may further include generating a list of procedures to be performed over a time period. While the information provided in such a list may vary in some embodiments the list may include patient names type of procedure amount of radiopharmaceutical to be delivered to the identified patient the time necessary of the procedure and or a projected start time for the procedure the treating physician and the like. In particular embodiments the information required for such a list may be inputted into the system before initiation and in other embodiments information for the list may be provided before the initiation of the procedure for each individual patient. In still other embodiments information for the list may be inputted remotely and patient information may be provided to the system via an Internet or other network connection that is hardwired or wireless.

Initialization may include any number of steps necessary to prepare the system for delivery of a radiopharmaceutical. In some embodiments initialization may include the step of filling the system including all tubing and connectors with saline or another medical fluid to remove air from the fluid path set i.e. flushing the system . As illustrated in in some embodiments the step of flushing the system may be carried out by bypassing the radiopharmaceutical and associated portion of the flow path by configuring the three way valve in position such that ports c and b are connected. At the same time the four way valve can be positioned such that ports d and e are connected. Saline or another medical fluid may than be introduced into the system by injecting fluid from the reservoir to point B. The three way valve may then be configured such that ports a and b are connected while the four way valve remains configured to allow fluid to flow from port d through port e. Pump may then pump fluid from the radiopharmaceutical container into the radiopharmaceutical tubing section until the tubing is filled from point A to point B. The three way valve may then be repositioned to connect port c and d and saline may be pumped from the medical fluid storage device to a portion of the flow path beyond the four way valve through the sixth tubing section .

In some embodiments the tubing section associated with the radiopharmaceutical may be first flushed with saline before the radiopharmaceutical is introduced into the system. In such embodiments saline may be pumped from a source at point A through the three way valve and four way valve before valve is repositioned to allow fluid to be pumped from the medical fluid storage device through the system to valve .

After flushing such methods may include the step of introducing a radiopharmaceutical into the system in the flow chart of . Returning to introducing the first volume can be carried out by configuring valve to allow fluid flow through ports a and b while valve is configured to allow flow through ports d and f thereby diverting fluid in the system to the waste receptacle. Radiopharmaceutical may be introduced into the system by pumping radiopharmaceutical from vial or container at inlet point A and past point B at valve to point C in the third tubing section using pump . The volume of radiopharmaceutical between points B and C is the first volume of radiopharmaceutical . The actual amount of radiopharmaceutical in the first volume does not need to be known exactly so long as section of tubing from A to B is completely filled with radiopharmaceutical and the activity in the volume between B and C is not larger than the activity Ar to be administered.

After the first volume of radiopharmaceutical has been introduced into the system it may be introduced into the ionization calibration chamber in by flushing the system with additional medical fluid from the medical fluid storage device . This step in the method of various embodiments can be carried out by configuring valve to allow flow from port c through port b and introducing a volume of saline that is slightly larger than the third tubing section i.e. slightly larger than the volume between points B and D from the into the system and pushing the first volume of radiopharmaceutical from the third tubing section into the tube coil . Movement of the first volume into the tube coil is illustrated in .

After the first volume of radiopharmaceutical has been introduced into the ionization calibration chamber step in the initial activity of the radiopharmaceutical can be determined . This step can be carried out by measuring the activity of the first volume of radiopharmaceutical Al using the radioactive emissions detectors associated with the ionization calibration chamber. With these data the system controller may calculate the missing activity Am based on total desired activity Ar as shown in Equation 1 Eq. 1 Determination of the missing activity Am is graphically illustrated in column labeled M1 indicating the first measurement.

The concentration of activity in the vial Cv can be inputted into the control system by the user during initialization of the system and this value can then be used to estimate the remaining volume of the radiopharmaceutical Vm that should be delivered to achieve the total desired activity Ar as shown in Equation 2 Eq. 2

After the estimated remaining volume Vm has been determined the calibration phase may begin. This step is accomplished by introducing a second volume of radiopharmaceutical into the system . As illustrated in the second volume of radiopharmaceutical can be introduced into the system by switching valve to connect ports a and b and pumping a second volume of radiopharmaceutical into the third tubing section using pump . The second volume may fill the portion of the third tubing section to point C. Volume of the second volume of radiopharmaceutical is half of the estimated missing volume Vm determined using Eq. 1. This volume is designated Vc in Equation 3 2 Eq. 3

The second volume of radiopharmaceutical may then be introduced into the ionization chamber step in . This portion of the process may include the steps of repositioning valve to connect ports c and b and pumping a volume of medical fluid into the system to move the second volume of radiopharmaceutical into the tube coil as illustrated in .

The step of calibrating the ionization calibration chamber step in . This portion of the process may include the steps of measuring the radioactive emissions of the second volume of radiopharmaceutical in the tube coil measurement M2 to determine the activity of the second volume of radiopharmaceutical Ac as illustrated in . As illustrated in the second measurement M2 corresponds to the radioactive emission of both the first volume of radiopharmaceutical and the second volume of radiopharmaceutical because both volumes are present in the tube coil during the measurement. Therefore the activity of the second volume Ac can be determined by subtracting the activity of the first volume A1 measured in M1 from the activity A2 derived from the second measurement M2. The concentration of radiopharmaceutical in the vial based on the emission Cs can be calculated based on the amount of radiopharmaceutical Vc introduced into the system in the second volume of radiopharmaceutical and the activity of these volume of radiopharmaceutical Ac as set forth in Eq. 4 2 1 Eq. 4 The system is now calibrated and can deliver an accurate dose in mCi of radiopharmaceutical based on the volume of radiopharmaceutical introduced into the system.

The additional amount of radiopharmaceutical required for the desired total dose Ar can be determined by determining the amount of activity Ac required to reach a total activity of Ar as set forth in Eq. 5 2 Eq. 5. The volume Vc required to provide this dose of radiopharmaceutical can then calculated as set forth in Eq. 6 2 2 21 Eq. 6

Having determined the correct amount of radiopharmaceutical to provide the total desired dose Ar the delivery phase can be initiated. Delivery can include the steps of introducing a third volume of radiopharmaceutical into the system and this portion of the process can be carried out by switching the valve to connect ports a and b and pumping the volume Vc through valve and into the third tubing section to for example point C as illustrated in . The third volume of radiopharmaceutical is then introduced into the ionization calibration chamber step by switching valve to connect ports c and b and pumping a volume of medical fluid into the system sufficient to allow the third volume of radiopharmaceutical to enter the tube coil . In some embodiments the total activity in the tube coil can be measured measurement M3 to confirm that the appropriate total dose of radiopharmaceutical corresponding to the total desired activity Ar has been introduced into the system and is prepared for delivery and if a significant discrepancy is detected the system can be stopped before the radiopharmaceutical is delivered. In such embodiments the volume of the tube coil must be large enough to hold all three volumes of radiopharmaceutical and . In particular embodiments this condition can be satisfied by providing a tube coil that is at least five times the volume of the third tubing section . In other embodiments the third volume of radiopharmaceutical may be pushed past the tubing coil for delivery without further measuring the activity of the radiopharmaceutical.

Having introduced the total desired dose of radiopharmaceutical Ar into the system the radiopharmaceutical can be delivered to the delivery tube set step . Delivery can be effectuated by positioning valve to connect ports d and e and pumping at least a volume of medical fluid from the medical fluid storage device equal to the volume of the tube coil and the delivery tube set into the system. Thus all liquid in the tube coil can be flushed to the patient and exactly the required dose of radioactivity is delivered to the patient.

In various embodiments the method presented above may further include the step of delivering a dose of a pharmaceutical agent to the patient step . This step can be carried out at any point in the process and may include the steps of introducing a volume of pharmaceutical agent sufficient to illicit the desired effect and delivering the pharmaceutical agent to the patient. In some embodiments the amount of pharmaceutical agent to be delivered can be determined by a physician or other medical professional. This amount can be provided in a single use syringe provided with an appropriate volume of pharmaceutical agent for delivery to a single patient. In such embodiments the system may be configured to depress the plunger completely when the step of delivering the pharmaceutical agent is initiated. In other embodiments the amount of pharmaceutical agent may be provided in a multiuse syringe including a sufficient amount of radiopharmaceutical to be delivered to more than one patient. In such embodiments a motor for example may be used to discharge an appropriate amount of pharmaceutical agent for each individual patient. The user can control the amount of radiopharmaceutical administered by controlling the motor or providing instructions to the control system to discharge an appropriate amount of pharmaceutical agent.

The pharmaceutical agent can be introduced into the system at any point within the flow path. For example in some embodiments the pharmaceutical agent may be introduced into the SPDS at either the proximal or distal end of the delivery tube and in other embodiments the pharmaceutical agent can be introduced into MPDS either before or after the tube coil. As illustrated in the step of introducing the pharmaceutical agent into the system may be carried out after flushing the system and before the radiopharmaceutical delivery procedure has been initiated or the step of introducing the pharmaceutical agent into the system can be carried out after the radiopharmaceutical has been delivered to the patient and before the system is shut down. In still other embodiments the pharmaceutical agent can be introduced into the system simultaneously with the radiopharmaceutical and both compositions can be delivered to the patient at the same time.

In some embodiments another injection of the radiopharmaceutical and or another injection of pharmaceutical agent may be delivered to the same or a different patient. In such embodiments procedure may continue by repeating the delivery phases alone or the calibration phase and delivery phase when additional radiopharmaceutical is required and or the pharmaceutical agent delivery phase when additional pharmaceutical agent is required. In various embodiments the initialization phase may not be repeated since the tube coil has been flushed with saline and the radiopharmaceutical extends to point B. Moreover because no activity is present in the coil section Al in the above calculations can be set to zero and Am and Ar are equal. In the event that no further injections are necessary the procedure maybe terminated using a shutdown protocol which may include one or more steps of flushing system with a medical fluid.

The systems methods and devices described above may include a number of inherent safety features. For example redundancy in the operation of the device may reduce the possibility that more than the desired dose of radiopharmaceutical will be delivered to the patient even in the event of failure of one component such as a pump or a valve. In particular only the dose of radiopharmaceutical in the tube coil will be delivered to the patient because there is no direct connection from the vial and the fluid delivery set. Additionally sequential measurement of activity within the tube coil allows the radioactive dose of radiopharmaceutical to be determined before the complete dose is introduced into the system. Thus measurement M3 confirms that the correct amount of radiopharmaceutical is present in the tube coil before the radiopharmaceutical is delivered. If significant discrepancies are detected between the expected result and the actual measurement procedure can be terminated and or the user will be notified of the discrepancy using for example an audible or visible alarm.

In some embodiments no radiopharmaceutical will enter the waste reservoir thereby minimizing the generation of radioactive waste.

The methods described above may include any number of additional steps including for example replacing the MPDS placing the waste receptacle into the waste receptacle well placing tube coil into ionization calibration chamber placing tubing into operative connection with pump placing the tubing into operative connection tubing holder placing a spike or cannula into fluid connection with radiopharmaceutical source or vial placing tubing into operative connection with pinch valve and placing tubing into operative connection with air detectors mounts and other devices hanging a medical fluid source on a hook mounting on fluid delivery system and combinations thereof. The method may further include priming the system by flushing with medical fluid connecting the SPDS with the MPDS priming the SPDS to provide a wet connection at the patient end.

Additional embodiments are directed to a method for estimating the flow rate of the device using for example flow rate sensors pressure sensors or the change of activity slope of the radiopharmaceutical. In embodiments in which the activity of the radiopharmaceutical is used to determine flow rate a known volume of the radiopharmaceutical can be pumped into the and out of the ionization calibration chamber by pumping additional fluid into the third and fourth tubing sections. The activity of the radiopharmaceutical in the ionization calibration chamber can be measured repeatedly during this process and a slope of the radioactive emissions can calculated from the measured activity values over time. Based on the slope of the emitted radiation and the volume of the ionization calibration chamber the average rate at which the radiopharmaceutical is replaced by saline can be calculated which corresponds to the flow rate of the fluid is in the device. Because the radiopharmaceutical and chamber materials may be chosen such that radioactive emissions from the radiopharmaceutical penetrate the walls of the ionization calibration chamber before being measured it is possible to measure the flow rate of the fluid without placing mechanical measuring devices in the fluid stream. Similarly the flow rate of a radiopharmaceutical to a patient and the location of the radiopharmaceutical within the MPDS can be determined. In particular the activity in the chamber A in the ionization chamber and activity in the tubing A at the beginning of the procedure can be measured directly. Based on these data the activity per unit concentration e.g. MBq ml can be determined for the vial as a whole. In some embodiments the decay rate for the radioactive tag can be used to determine the activity of the radiopharmaceutical remaining in the vial. In still other embodiments the total time for the infusion attempt and the volume of tubing between the ionization chamber and the end of the patient line can be used in conjunction with the data described above to determine precisely the amount of radiopharmaceutical administered to the patient.

Once the average flow rate of the radiopharmaceutical through the MPDS is determined this information can be used to determine the location or distribution of the first volume of radiopharmaceutical the second volume of radiopharmaceutical and or the third volume of radiopharmaceutical within the system. Additionally the average flow rate along with fluid mechanical properties of the tubing such as diameter and surface treatment can be used to determine the location of the leading edge and the trailing edge of the radiopharmaceutical volume. By knowing the location of the radiopharmaceutical within the fluid path set system parameters can be adjusted to ensure that the injection is fully completed and the radiopharmaceutical dose and pharmaceutical agent are completely administered.

Shown schematically in are examples of a touch screen displays for the GUI that can be employed with the fluid delivery system . As a non restrictive example such a touch screen arrangement could be utilized in conjunction with the system controller and or computer of any of a variety of fluid delivery systems as broadly contemplated herein. To clearly and unambiguously communicate to an operator the current status of the fluid delivery system a GUI with easily legible symbols and icons including operator friendly data entry mechanisms can be used. While a touch screen is described in these embodiments other types of data entry devices can be used to achieve an equivalent purpose for example soft or hard key entry trackball mouse a cursor control touch pad and the like a separate computer system that provides data or instructions via a network or internet connection.

The system may return to the main operator interface that includes a window including patient information for the next scheduled patient as illustrated in . The user may be prompted to choose a protocol to be carried out by selecting an icon. In other embodiments the protocol can be entered when the patient information is entered into the schedule. In that case the protocol does not need to be selected here and the user will be prompted to move directly to the screen provided in . The pre entered protocol can be overridden at any time by pressing the Protocol button. This will take the user back to the protocol selection screen and a new protocol can be selected by choosing the appropriate icon. Icons associated with the main operator interface may include a list of protocols that can be carried out either graphically using images alphabetically using words numerically or combinations thereof. For example shows graphical icons for protocols including a cardiac rest procedure a a cardiac stress test with exercise b pharmaceutically induced cardiac stress test c bone scan d breast scan e and thyroid scan f .

Following selection of a protocol a window prompting a user to connect and prime the patient line as illustrated in may appear. In some embodiments patient information may be displayed in this window that includes infusion site. Additional information may also be displayed including for example the flow rate and time of delivery for a stressor Lexiscan in and a flow rate and amount of activity of radiopharmaceutical to be delivered during the protocol. In some embodiments the information displayed may be general procedural conditions and in other embodiments the information displayed may have been inputted with the patient data in the screen described above. In still other embodiments the window may be configured to be manipulated by the user such that for example a flow rate and time for delivery of stressor can be inputted directly into the screen. provides an illustrative embodiment of a pop up window that appears when the user changes a manipulateable variable.

In some embodiments as illustrated in the amount of radiopharmaceutical delivered to the patient may be based on for example the weight of the patient mCi lbs . In other embodiments another physiological factor such as body mass index mCi BMI blood glucose mCi mg dL and the like can be used to determine the dosage. In embodiments in which weight is used the user may be prompted to enter the patient s weight into an appropriate box on the screen or the user may select an icon such as the scale provided in which will cause a pop up screen including patient information to be brought up where the user can provide the patient s weight . When the patient s weight has been inputted the amount of activity and or flow rate may automatically adjust to provide the correct amount of radiopharmaceutical to be delivered. Once all patient data has been inputted the system may be configured to prompt the user to carry out the steps of preprogrammed protocols such as those identified above namely protocols including a cardiac rest procedure a a cardiac stress test with exercise b pharmaceutically induced cardiac stress test c bone scan d breast scan e and thyroid scan f .

In some embodiments the MPDS can be installed and primed at the beginning of the day before any protocols are selected. In such embodiments the setup Supply buttons may allow the user to navigate to the screen where the MPDS is installed and radiopharmaceutical assay information and saline volume is entered. This screen may further include an MPDS Prime button that once depressed instructs the system to carry out the MPDS priming procedure.

While the protocol window is displayed the user may connect the SPDS to the system and prepare the system to be primed. Here priming may include the steps of for example checking medical fluid radiopharmaceutical and pharmaceutical agent levels or inserting any of these materials into the system. If any of the fluid levels are low the system may prompt the user to refill. When the levels are sufficient the system may allow the user to then contact the Prime button to begin the procedure. The screen may indicate that the system is priming and in some embodiments a progress bar may be provided on the screen to allow the user to monitor the time necessary for the priming procedure as illustrated in .

After the priming protocol has been completed the user may be prompted to connect the patient to the system as indicated in and the user may be prompted to prepare or inject a dose or perform a test injection to ensure that the system is functioning properly. In some embodiments a pressure graph may appear as the test injection is carried out providing a means for the user to visually verify that the test injection results in acceptable delivery pressure. Buttons provided on these screens may allow the user to choose the proper procedure. As illustrated in when test inject is selected the screen may be modified to indicate that the test injection protocol is underway and a progress bar may be provided pressure graph or other means for tracking the procedure or combination of tracking means may be provided. The system may indicate when the test injection protocol is completed either by indicating that the test injection is complete or prompting the user that the system is ready to measure a dose of radiopharmaceutical. A button for preparing a dose may further be highlighted as illustrated in . In certain embodiments the test injection step may be omitted and the user may select the Prepare Dose button without first performing a test injection.

In some embodiments the protocol window may remain in place and a progress bar may be introduced indicating that a dose is being measured and the time period remaining before the dose has been measured when the prepare dose button is activated. In other embodiments a screen illustrating the procedure and a progress bar as illustrated in may be brought up which shows the progress of the dose measurement. When dose measurement is complete another window may appear that prompts the user to inject or discard the dose. As illustrated in in some embodiments the window may indicate that the dose is ready to inject and may provide a means for tracking the delivery of the dose such as for example a progress bar or a graph configured to show the change in a variable that results from the injection of the pharmaceutical agent. For example as illustrated in the change in pressure psi in the system may change over time when the pharmaceutical agent is introduced into the system. shows a screen shot of the screen during introduction of the pharmaceutical agent and the progress of the protocol as indicated by the change in pressure of the system. The amount of pharmaceutical agent delivered in real time may also be presented on this screen as well as the time remaining in the procedure. The screen may further include a pause button. shows a screen shot taken further into the procedure after delivery of the pharmaceutical agent is almost complete.

In some embodiments the system may automatically begin injection of the radiopharmaceutical after delivery of the pharmaceutical agent is complete. In other embodiments a screen such as that presented in may appear which prompts the user to inject the dose of radiopharmaceutical by for example indicating that the system is ready to inject. In some embodiments the system may include a stopwatch function that shows how long it has been since the stimulant was injected. The user can initiate the radiopharmaceutical injection after the correct amount of time has passed via the GUI a hand switch cable or wireless or foot switch cable or wireless . In other embodiments the radiopharmaceutical may begin injection automatically after a programmed time has elapsed from the injection of the stimulant. In some embodiments the time period may be a pre programmed time period and in other embodiments the user can program injection of the radiopharmaceutical after a specific time period for example 20 seconds after the stimulant injection is completed.

This screen may further provide a means for tracking the injection and one or more button to inject the dose or discard the dose. Further information provided by the screen may include the injection rate the amount of radiopharmaceutical to be injected based on the radioactive emissions of the radiopharmaceutical and the time remaining in the injection procedure. During the procedure the delivery may be tracked based on the change in pressure of the system and in some embodiments delivery may be tracked based on the amount of radiopharmaceutical delivered based on for example the percent delivered or the percent remaining to be delivered as illustrated in . show a screen shot showing the screen after injection is nearly complete. As illustrated in in some embodiments pressure psi and the amount of radiopharmaceutical delivered based on for example activity of the radiopharmaceutical remaining in the coil can be tracked simultaneously providing the user with immediate verification that the radiopharmaceutical is being delivered. The user may be alerted either audibly visually or both audibly and visually when the injection is completed. In some embodiments a window may appear showing the results of the procedure. For example as illustrated in a window including a summary of the injection protocol may be provided that includes the volume and flow rate of the pharmaceutical agent and radiopharmaceutical delivered and in some embodiments the prescribed amount of radiopharmaceutical to be delivered the actual amount of radiopharmaceutical delivered and the time of delivery. The total fluid delivered including both pharmaceuticals and saline or medical fluid may also be provided in the summary. In other embodiments windows providing the graphs produced during the procedure may be accessible after the procedure is complete as illustrated in and yet another window may provide the relative amount of radiopharmaceutical that is absorbed by various organs as illustrated in . These data may generally represent the current rate of absorption for various organs. The screens provided in the may further include a button for printing the individual reports or a compilation of the reports presented in each of the screens provided in . These screens may further include a button for transmitting the data and other information compiled during the procedure to a database such as hospital database systems such as a Picture Archiving Communication System PACS Hospital Information System HIS or Radiology Information System RIS . Transmission of the data to these databases may be carried out via a wired or wireless Internet connection or wirelessly using for example Bluetooth. The screens may further include buttons for preparing the system for another injection either with the same patient or a new patient.

While the systems described above include a graphical display in the form of an x y plot with the X axis indicating the percent of the infusion that has been completed from 0 to 100 and the Y axis indicating the percent of the dose that is remaining in the tube coil from 0 to 100 this is not to be construed as limiting the present disclosure. For instance various other values can be monitored against the percent of the dose remaining in the tube coil to provide the operator with an indication of the status of the injection procedure such as but not limited to time the percent of saline that has been injected flow rate of saline or FDG volume of saline or FDG injected etc. In addition the graphical display is not limited to an x y plot and various other 1 dimensional and 2 dimensional graphical indications of the status of the injection procedure may be provided. For instance the graphical representation may be a numeric display a bar graph or a scatter plot. In addition the graphical representation may be a graphical display of vial which is shown emptying as the injection procedure occurs.

As illustrated in the schedule screen may further include buttons to add an appointment or individual buttons to remove a patient from the list presented as an X in the list provided in . Further buttons may allow for the schedule to be imported or exported. Importing and exporting can be carried out using a hard wired or wireless network or Internet or secondary storage devices may be used to transfer patient data onto or off of the computer associated with the system. In other embodiments patient information may be uploaded after a barcode associated with the patient has been scanned. In still further embodiments the screen may include a button for saving data and or clearing the entire patient list. In certain embodiments the patient list may be interactive. For example the list may allow for individual patient entries to be clicked on and the screen may provide information regarding the sufficiency of the patient data entered. In the event that one or more required fields have not been completed the screen may prompt the user to add the data by indicating that insufficient data is provided or indicate which fields need to be completed before the procedure can be initiated.

In some embodiments such as those illustrated in the system may track the amount of saline and radiopharmaceutical in the system. As illustrated in one or more windows may be provided that show the amount of saline and radiopharmaceutical remaining in real time. In some embodiments the system may warn the user when insufficient radiopharmaceutical remains in the system to complete the schedule. In such cases the list may be modified to indicate which procedures can be completed and those that cannot. For example in insufficient radiopharmaceutical is provided in the system to complete the scheduled procedure for Casey Joslin but the previous procedures can be completed.

In still other embodiments a graphical display of the system may be provided in one or more windows that shows the amount of materials such as saline radiopharmaceutical Sestimibi and therapeutic agent remaining in the system and the amount of waste in the waste receptacle as illustrated in . In some embodiments this graphical display may be interactive such that the user can select any component of the system and input for example the lot number of the fluid the date added the time the activity and the volume as illustrated in the pop up window shown in . Once the components have been identified the system may prompt the user to prime the system by providing a button for priming the system and the screen may show the progress of the priming protocol using for example a progress bar as shown in or the tube set graphically illustrated in the system may highlight the portions of the system that have been primed during the priming protocol. The system may indicate that the priming protocol is complete audibly or graphically. For example as provided in the graphical system display of the system may be completely highlighted indicating that every portion of the system is properly primed and an indication that the system is primed may be provided elsewhere on the screen.

The system of various embodiments may include any number of cords for powering the system using standard AC outlets and in some embodiments the system may include a battery configured to power to the system controller and to the ionization calibration chamber in the event that the system is disconnected from an AC power source. In some embodiments the system battery may be charged while the system is connected to an AC power source.

Although various embodiments have been described in detail for the purpose of illustration it is to be understood that such detail is solely for that purpose and that the disclosure is not limited to the disclosed embodiments but on the contrary is intended to cover modifications and equivalent arrangements. For example it is to be understood that this disclosure contemplates that to the extent possible one or more features of any embodiment can be combined with one or more features of any other embodiment.

