---

title: System and method for tracked vehicle dynamometer testing
abstract: A system and method for tracked vehicle dynamometer testing. The dynamometer system may be configured as a treadmill electric chassis dynamometer having dual, parallel endless belts positioned as substantially flat surfaces with cleats, i.e., the tracks of a test vehicle and a dynamometer vehicle. The track assemblies of the test vehicle and the dynamometer vehicle are generally vertically, mechanically coupled in close contact with each other via a retention fixture. The testing may be conducted in a climatic chamber to simulate various environmental conditions.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08950275&OS=08950275&RS=08950275
owner: The United Stated of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 08950275
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130703
---
The invention described here may be made used and licensed by and for the U.S. Government for governmental purposes without paying royalty to us.

The present invention generally relates to a system and method for tracked vehicle dynamometer testing.

Conventional approaches to dynamometer test systems and other related technologies may not provide the capabilities for specialized vehicle e.g. small tracked unmanned ground vehicles testing that is sometimes desired. Thus there exists a need and an opportunity for an improved system and method for tracked vehicle dynamometer testing. Such an improved system and method may overcome one or more of the deficiencies of the conventional approaches.

Accordingly the present invention may provide a system and method for tracked vehicle e.g. a small tracked robot unmanned ground vehicle UGV electrical dynamometer testing including a retention fixture sensors and sensor output analysis equipment and variable electrical resistance configured as an electrical load to the electrical dynamometer. The system may be essentially portable such that a portion of the testing can be performed in a climatic test chamber to simulate various types of operation in various climate conditions as may be encountered by the vehicle during expected modes of operation and or desired by a user.

In a preferred embodiment the dynamometer system may incorporate a non accessorized e.g. basic shell small dual tracked dynamometer dyno robot as the electrical generator energy absorbing adjustable load where the dyno robot is similar to the tested small dual tracked robot. The test system e.g. apparatus device etc. generally includes a retention fixture that secures the bottom of the track assembly of the test small tracked robot i.e. the test vehicle to the top of the track assembly of the fully functional similar small tracked dyno robot vehicle i.e. the dynamometer vehicle .

The retention fixture generally provides inter coupling of the robot tracks between the test vehicle and the dynamometer vehicle. The dynamometer system may be configured as a treadmill chassis dynamometer having dual parallel endless belts positioned as substantially flat surfaces with cleats i.e. the tracks of the test vehicle and the dyno vehicle . The track assemblies of the two robot vehicles are generally held in close contact with each other.

The dynamometer energy absorbing subsystem may be implemented via operating the track motors in the bottom i.e. dyno robot vehicle assembly as generators that are coupled to the variable load resistors. As such the test dynamometer i.e. bottom small tracked robot track assembly may be adjusted via the variable load resistors to provide simulated terrains with the capability to mimic i.e. imitate replicate and the like a variety of elevation grade changes and terrain conditions as may be encountered by the test vehicle i.e. the test vehicle small tracked robot as determined by testing and measuring a number of parameters from a baseline robot vehicle in a variety of actual operational e.g. real world conditions.

The dynamometer system generally provides an apparatus for environmental testing of specialized unmanned ground vehicles e.g. small tracked robots UGVs and the like . The dynamometer system and method may provide the capability of laboratory testing of small tracked UGVs that simulates real world field data. The dynamometer system and method may provide reliable and repeatable testing and prove out of the UGVs for a variety of operating environments in the laboratory environmental chambers.

The dynamometer portion of the system generally implements unmanned robot tracks and underbody chassis assembly as an endless belt moving ground test surface that is portable and may used in the laboratory environment and in the climatologically variable environmental chambers.

The process implemented via the present invention implements operating a baseline unmanned robot to obtain record the environmental temperature inclination and ground surface information through testing in the desired terrain and conditions. The recorded information data is implemented in connection with test unmanned ground vehicles to simulate the field conditions that were tested for dynamometer testing in a laboratory environment and in the environmental chambers. Such a process helps ensure repeatability in life cycle testing and prove out of the unmanned ground vehicle test robots. The dynamometer apparatus in particular the retention fixture are configured to ensure coupling of the robot tracks for the entire test sequence in the laboratory and in the environmental chambers.

Variable adjustable resistance load resistors are electrically coupled to the track motors in the underbody chassis assembly section of the dynamometer apparatus vehicle. The resistors are varied adjusted during the test cycle sequences to duplicate the field conditions in the laboratory and in the environmental chamber tests. Thus more tests can generally be conducted in less time for less cost. Such a process also generally provides more reliability and repeatability in the testing and prove out of the test vehicles. Such a system and method for tracked vehicle dynamometer testing may provide the opportunity to continuously improve the design development and reliability of the test vehicles.

The above features and other features and advantages of the present invention are readily apparent from the following detailed descriptions thereof when taken in connection with the accompanying drawings.

The following definitions and terminology are applied as understood by one skilled in the appropriate art.

The singular forms such as a an and the include plural references unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. For example reference to a material includes reference to one or more of such materials and an element includes reference to one or more of such elements.

As used herein substantial and about when used in reference to a quantity or amount of a material characteristic parameter and the like refer to an amount that is sufficient to provide an effect that the material or characteristic was intended to provide as understood by one skilled in the art. The amount of variation generally depends on the specific implementation. Similarly substantially free of or the like refers to the lack of an identified composition characteristic or property. Particularly assemblies that are identified as being substantially free of are either completely absent of the characteristic or the characteristic is present only in values which are small enough that no meaningful effect on the desired results is generated.

A plurality of items structural elements compositional elements materials subassemblies and the like may be presented in a common list or table for convenience. However these lists or tables should be construed as though each member of the list is individually identified as a separate and unique member. As such no individual member of such list should be considered a de facto equivalent of any other member of the same list solely based on the presentation in a common group so specifically described.

Concentrations values dimensions amounts and other quantitative data may be presented herein in a range format. One skilled in the art will understand that such range format is used for convenience and brevity and should be interpreted flexibly to include not only the numerical values explicitly recited as the limits of the range but also to include all the individual numerical values or sub ranges encompassed within that range as if each numerical value and sub range is explicitly recited. For example a size range of about 1 dimensional unit to about 100 dimensional units should be interpreted to include not only the explicitly recited limits but also to include individual sizes such as 2 dimensional units 3 dimensional units 10 dimensional units and the like and sub ranges such as 10 dimensional units to 50 dimensional units 20 dimensional units to 100 dimensional units and the like.

Like numbered elements generally refer to the same element however the like numbered elements may include a suffix L to designate the left side element and a suffix R to designate the right side element when left and right elements are mirrors of each other. Likewise the like numbered elements may include a suffix U to designate the upper top element and a suffix B to designate the bottom element when upper and bottom elements are implemented similarly. Thus an element designated with a compound suffix LB is the left bottom implementation of the element and so forth.

The description as follows is directed to a tracked vehicle treadmill chassis dynamometer and includes directional designations such as up down left L right R lateral transverse longitudinal front forward back backward rearward top bottom vertical and the like that are generally taken from the perspective of a small tracked unmanned ground vehicle e.g. robot operated by a user e.g. operator technician laboratory personnel and the like . See also directional reference indication as shown on and .

As is understood by one of skill in the art an absorbing dynamometer acts as a load that is driven by a prime mover such as an engine another electric motor a human or other animal wind or water turbine or another power source that is under test. An electric motor dynamometer sometimes referred to as a motor generator is a dynamometer that can generally measure the power torque and rotational speed of the prime mover. The electric motor dynamometer can be configured as a generator to absorb power under test measurement. The electric motor dynamometer operating as a generator can replace the load side during tests and provide a variety of torque values on the prime mover by adjustment of a variable resistance that is electrically coupled to the output of the generator. A chassis dynamometer is a dynamometer that can measure torque and power delivered by the power train of a vehicle directly from the drive wheel or wheels without removing the engine from the frame of the vehicle . A treadmill chassis dynamometer includes an endless belt or belts that provide a surface to mount the test vehicle and the endless belt is coupled to the generator such that the load is presented to the prime mover.

As is further understood by one of skill in the art to test the prime mover a dynamometer controller which is usually an electronic unit that has the capability of controlling the load on the dynamometer and can measure or sense the load and speed is generally implemented. Dynamometer controllers generally operate in one of two modes speed controlled operation or load controlled operation. For load controlled operation variable adjustable load resistors e.g. rheostats that can tolerate high amperages i.e. high current and that can also be configured adjusted through movement of the adjustable slip rings to different resistive values during the test sequence to accurately simulate the field data during the temperature and environmental life cycle testing in a laboratory are generally implemented.

With reference to the Figures the preferred embodiments of the present invention will now be described in detail. Generally the present invention provides an improved system and an improved method for tracked vehicle dynamometer testing.

Referring to an isometric view from the upper front right of a tracked vehicle chassis dynamometer test system of the present invention with a dynamometer vehicle  DYNO e.g. a first vehicle and a test vehicle  TEST e.g. a second vehicle mounted in laboratory testing positions is shown. The test system generally comprises a test fixture and the dynamometer vehicle  DYNO and the test vehicle  TEST as well as a vehicle that is implemented to determine baseline values e.g. parameters characteristics and the like e.g. a baseline vehicle  BL e.g. a third vehicle which is not shown .

Also included in the system are sensors for measuring various parameters e.g. characteristics data and the like data acquisition and or recording equipment input output connections and electrical coupling interfacing data analysis equipment including computers and appropriate computer software variable resistance load e.g. high current capacity resistors and the like as are known and understood by one of skill in the art. As such for clarity of illustration and description the immediately above noted elements are generally not shown herein.

The test system is generally implemented as an electromagnetic absorption dynamometer configured as a treadmill chassis dynamometer system. Data that is measured on the baseline third vehicle  BL during field testing includes vehicle motor current voltage and temperature. Data related to the test environment e.g. ground conditions inclinations atmospheric conditions etc. are also generally acquired for use in climatic chamber testing using the dynamometer test system .

The vehicles i.e. the dynamometer vehicle  DYNO the test vehicle  TEST and the baseline vehicle  BL are generally implemented as similar i.e. the same manufacturer model series variant etc. conventional vehicles with differences and modifications as discussed in detail below. The baseline vehicle  BL and the dynamometer second vehicle  DYNO are generally chosen selected to be as nearly identical as is practicable with regards to the parameters of interest to the user such that the laboratory test results on the test first vehicle  TEST match expectations of field performance as was determined from field tests i.e. real world test conditions and environment performed on the baseline vehicle  BL. That is the loads provided by the test dynamometer system via the robot  DYNO to the test robot vehicle  TEST replicate simulate duplicate etc. the loads presented in the field i.e. real world data as measured on the baseline robot vehicle  BL.

In one embodiment e.g. the embodiment shown on and described in connection therewith the vehicle is implemented as a small dual tracked unmanned ground robot vehicle having direct current battery powered electric motors internal to the vehicle body as the prime mover. The vehicle may be implemented as a remote controlled vehicle that is a robot vehicle that is operated via wireless radio signals from a user operated remote control unit that is separate from the robot vehicle as understood by one of skill in the art. As such for clarity of illustration and description the remote control element details related to the control of the vehicle are not included herein.

The test vehicle  TEST comprises a vehicle body e.g. vehicle body  TEST of the vehicle  TEST and vehicle body  DYNO of the vehicle  DYNO and left and right first and second tracks e.g. left and right tracks  TESTL and  TESTR of the vehicle  TEST and left and right first and second tracks  DYNOL and  DYNOR of the vehicle  DYNO .

The test fixture apparatus device rig etc. described in greater detail below in connection with comprises a base and a front retention bracket . The test fixture generally vertically mechanically couples the upper top vehicle  TEST and the bottom lower vehicle  DYNO together via direct adjacent contact of the left and right tracks  TESTL and  TESTR of the vehicle  TEST to the respective left and right first and second tracks  DYNOL and  DYNOR of the vehicle  DYNO. The test fixture generally elevates the vehicle  DYNO above the base such that the left and right first and second tracks  DYNOL and  DYNOR of the vehicle  DYNO move freely.

Referring to a left side elevation view of the dynamometer test system is shown. The dynamometer test system may include a jack panel interface block input output connector board etc. that is electrically coupled to the vehicle body  DYNO and generally provides electrical load sensor signal and the like interfacing between the sensors and the motors that are implemented in the dynamometer second vehicle  DYNO and the acquisition and electrical load e.g. variable resistance equipment not shown .

Referring to an isometric view from the upper front right of the dynamometer test system is shown. The dynamometer vehicle  DYNO is illustrated in place on the test rig for testing. The front retention bracket is shown as lowered to provide access for mounting the test vehicle  TEST into test position on to the dynamometer vehicle  DYNO. The test fixture further comprises a rear retention bracket . The rear retention bracket is illustrated raised into position e.g. to the vertical to secure the dynamometer vehicle  DYNO and the test vehicle  TEST as is illustrated for example on .

Referring to a front upper view and a rear upper view respectively of the dynamometer test system with the dynamometer vehicle  DYNO and the test vehicle  TEST mounted in test position. The retention fixture further comprises four axle bolts and four lock e.g. clamp latch anti rotation etc. bolts not illustrated on left and right first and second lashing retention straps e.g. belts etc. e.g. left retention strap L and right retention strap R . Each belt includes a keeper latch buckle tensioner that generally engages a hook receptacle d ring complementary interface member or the like on the respective left and right sides of the front retention bracket and the rear retention bracket over the test vehicle body  TEST to securely couple together the dynamometer vehicle  DYNO and the test vehicle  TEST mounted in test position.

While the retention elements are illustrated as straps other flexible retention devices e.g. chains cables and the like may alternatively be implemented. Likewise in lieu of the lock bolts any alternative appropriate latching mechanism may be implemented for latching the front retention bracket and the rear retention bracket at the upright substantially vertical position.

Referring to on an isometric view from the upper front left of the test fixture of the dynamometer test system is shown. is a top plan elevation view of the test retention fixture is a front view of the test fixture is a left side elevation view of the test fixture and is a right side elevation view of the test fixture .

For clarity of illustration the left and right first and second retention straps i.e. the left retention strap L and the right retention strap R along with the complementary interface members the axle bolts and the lock bolts are not shown on . The retention fixture comprises the base the front retention bracket the rear retention bracket left and right first and second platform support beams e.g. rails risers studs etc. e.g. left support beam L and right support beam R a front support plate platen shelf plane tray etc. and a rear support plate platen shelf plane tray etc. .

The platform support beams are positioned longitudinally and substantially parallel and fastened fixed mounted etc. on the top surface of the base . The front support plate and the rear support plate are fastened on the on the top surface of and across the platform support beams . The front support plate and the rear support plate are sized and shaped such that the dynamometer vehicle body  DYNO is supported substantially parallel to the base such that the dynamometer vehicle  DYNO is provided lateral support and stability and such that the tracks  DYNO of the vehicle  DYNO are positioned clear of i.e. above the base .

The platform support beams each include a lateral axle hole at the front end and at the rear end and each of the axle holes are configured to receive one of the bolts . The platform support beams each further include a lateral support beam lock hole at the front end and at the rear end and each of the beam lock holes are configured to receive one of the lock bolts .

The front retention bracket further comprises left and right first and second front arms e.g. left front arm L and right front arm R and a front first cross bar . The front arms each include a lateral axle bolt hole at the first end that receives one of the axle bolts a lateral arm lock hole that is configured to align with a respective support beam lock hole and receive one of the lock bolts when the front retention bracket is substantially vertical and lateral front retention notches e.g. left upper front retention notch LU and left bottom front retention notch LB in the left front arm L and right upper front retention notch RU and right bottom front retention notch RB in the right front arm R . The first cross bar extends laterally between the left front arm L and the right front arm R such that the left front arm L and the right front arm R straddle the front ends of the platform support beams .

The axle bolts that are installed laterally through the holes and to couple the front retention bracket to the platform support beams form a revolute joint such that the front retention bracket is rotatable between substantially vertical and substantially horizontal positions. The front edge of the front support plate and the rear edge of the front retention bracket may be substantially adjacent when the front retention bracket is rotated to the substantially vertical position. The second free ends of the front arms are tapered and angled i.e. sized and shaped such that interference with known or anticipated predetermined accessories e.g. system payloads such as manipulator or camera arms cameras sensors etc. that are typically mounted to the test vehicle  TEST is avoided.

The left bottom front retention notch LB and the right bottom front retention notch RB are positioned sized and shaped to accept e.g. interface with the front edge of the dynamometer vehicle body  DYNO. The left upper front retention notch LU and the right upper front retention notch RU are positioned sized and shaped to accept e.g. interface with the front edge of the test vehicle body  TEST.

The rear retention bracket further comprises left and right first and second rear arms e.g. left front arm L and right front arm R and a rear second cross bar . The rear arms each include a lateral bolt hole at the first end that receives one of the bolts a lateral arm lock hole that is configured to align with a respective support beam lock hole and receive one of the lock bolts when the rear retention bracket is substantially vertical and lateral front retention notches e.g. left upper rear retention notch LU and left bottom rear retention notch LB in the left rear arm L and right upper rear retention notch RU and right bottom rear retention notch RB in the right rear arm R . The second cross bar extends laterally between the left rear arm L and the right rear arm R such that the left rear arm L and the right rear arm R straddle the rear ends of the platform support beams .

The axle bolts that are installed laterally through the holes and to couple the rear retention bracket to the platform support beams form a revolute joint such that the rear retention bracket is pivotable rotatable between substantially vertical and substantially horizontal positions. The rear edge of the rear support plate and the front edge of the rear retention bracket may be substantially adjacent when the rear retention bracket is rotated to the substantially vertical position. The second free ends of the rear arms are tapered and angled i.e. sized and shaped such that interference with known or anticipated predetermined accessories e.g. system payloads such as manipulator or camera arms cameras sensors etc. that are typically mounted to the test vehicle  TEST is avoided.

The left bottom rear retention notch LB and the right bottom rear retention notch RB are positioned sized and shaped to accept e.g. interface with the rear edge of the dynamometer vehicle body  DYNO. The left upper rear retention notch LU and the right upper rear retention notch RU are positioned sized and shaped to accept e.g. interface with the rear edge of the test vehicle body  TEST.

Referring back to with the front retention bracket and the rear retention bracket pivoted rotated into the substantially vertical position and locked into position via installation of the lock bolts through the matingly aligned holes and and the straps lashed between the front retention bracket and the rear retention bracket via the retention members the retention fixture may grasp e.g. hold retain secure mount etc. the dynamometer vehicle  DYNO and the test vehicle  TEST in position for portable chassis dynamometer testing in a laboratory and or climatic test chamber. As such the fixture generally provides a stable secure structure for implementation of dynamometer testing the test vehicle  TEST via the dynamometer vehicle  DYNO.

Appropriate electrical apparatus and configuration for tracked robot system testing not shown includes variable load resistors that are electrically coupled to each of the motors of the dynamometer robot tracks  DYNO. The variable resistors are generally adjusted to provide the simulated terrain complete with the capability to mimic all elevation grade changes and terrain conditions i.e. load conditions desired by the user. Alternatively voltage may be applied provided to the motors of the dynamometer vehicle  DYNO to simulate a downhill e.g. free spinning braking stopping and the like operating condition e.g. an assist wherein the test vehicle  TEST experiences drag or braking in response to the applied voltage. As would be understood and appreciated by one of skill in the art dynamic control of the dynamometer vehicle  DYNO may be implemented to provide a variety of programmed test cycles as desired to meet the design criteria of a particular application.

Referring to a process flow diagram is shown. The flow diagram illustrates an embodiment of the process e.g. routine function technique steps method blocks operation procedure etc. that may be implemented in connection with the apparatus to determine and regenerate e.g. produce provide and the like vehicle operational conditions that simulate field e.g. real world typical environment etc. testing conditions in connection with the dynamometer system .

The method is generally conducted e.g. performed execute carried out etc. via the apparatus and related electrical apparatuses to emulate measured and recorded field data in a laboratory and or an environmental control chamber that uses the variable load resistance settings to conduct temperature and environmental cycle testing.

The process comprises three phases i.e. stages sections segments portions steps etc. a phase a phase and a phase wherein the phases and are generally serially linked i.e. performed conducted executed etc. in order of performance. That is at START ing the process the procedure enters the phase i.e. first phase phase 1 at the completion of the phase the procedure transitions to the phase i.e. second phase phase 2 at the completion of the phase the procedure transitions to the phase i.e. third phase phase 3 and at the completion of the phase the procedure transitions to an END. However after the phase and the phase have been performed the phase may be performed on any desired number of test vehicles  TEST.

The first phase e.g. the phase generally includes measuring field test data under various predetermined conditions on the baseline vehicle  BL. The phase may comprise sub steps e.g. sub steps and .

The sub step comprises installing sensors and data acquisition equipment on the baseline vehicle  BL. The sub step comprises performing baseline test runs and acquiring i.e. measuring field data from the baseline vehicle  BL. The measurements may comprise motor current voltage and temperature. The sub step comprises generating profile plots of the field data.

The second phase 2 e.g. the phase generally includes setting up the dynamometer system for performing measurements on the dynamometer vehicle  DYNO. The measurements may comprise motor current voltage and temperature similar to the measurements performed during the phase . The phase may comprise sub steps e.g. sub steps and .

The sub step comprises installing sensors and data acquisition and or measurement equipment on the dynamometer vehicle  DYNO and mounting the dynamometer vehicle  DYNO in the retention fixture . The sub step comprises performing test runs on the dynamometer test vehicle  DYNO and during the test runs adjusting the load electrical resistance such that the measurements acquired are similar to the profiles of the measurements performed during the phase i.e. the field data . The sub step comprises recording the resistance settings that produced the desired test conditions for implementation e.g. use adjusting resistance etc. during testing performed on the test vehicle  TEST.

The third phase e.g. the phase comprises measuring the performance of the test vehicle  TEST and recording the desired test data. Generally the dynamometer testing that is performed on the test vehicle  TEST is conducted in a climatic test chamber such that various environmental conditions may be implemented. In particular the phase includes i mounting the test vehicle  TEST on the test fixture and positioning the dynamometer system including the dynamometer vehicle  DYNO and the test vehicle  TEST mounted in test position in the climatic chamber ii for each desired test condition setting the load resistance at the appropriate setting as determined in phase and iii performing the desired test run and acquiring desired data. When all desired test runs are completed END ing the process .

As is apparent from the above detailed description the present invention may provide an improved system and an improved method for tracked vehicle dynamometer testing.

Various alterations and modifications will become apparent to those skilled in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of this invention and it is understood this invention is limited only by the following claims.

