---

title: Automatic detection of stereoscopic content in video/image data
abstract: A method includes calculating, through a processor of a computing device communicatively coupled to a memory, correlation between two portions of an image and/or a video frame on either side of a reference portion thereof. The method also includes determining, through the processor, whether content of the image and/or the video frame is stereoscopic or non-stereoscopic based on the determined correlation.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09092658&OS=09092658&RS=09092658
owner: NVIDIA Corporation
number: 09092658
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130425
---
This disclosure relates generally to multimedia content analysis and more particularly to a method a device and or a system of automatic detection of stereoscopic content in video image data.

Multimedia data such as video data and or image data may be delivered to a computing device to be rendered thereat. During the rendering content associated with the video data and or the image data may be rendered based on supplemental information indicating the type thereof e.g. stereoscopic three dimensional stereo 3D content . However in many existing content delivery systems it may not be possible to embed the supplemental information in a stream of the video data and or the image data.

Further it may not be easy for a user of the computing device to detect eye e.g. left eye right eye priority in the video data and or the image data without undue experimentation. While the supplemental information required can be stored in an external dedicated server data management thereof and communication of the supplemental information may be difficult.

Disclosed are a method a device and or a system of automatic detection of stereoscopic content in video image data.

In one aspect a method includes calculating through a processor of a computing device communicatively coupled to a memory correlation between two portions of an image and or a video frame on either side of a reference portion thereof. The method also includes determining through the processor whether content of the image and or the video frame is stereoscopic or non stereoscopic based on the determined correlation.

In another aspect a computing device includes a memory and a processor communicatively coupled to a memory. The processor is configured to execute instructions to correlate between two portions of an image and or a video frame on either side of a reference portion thereof. The processor is also configured to determine whether content of the image and or the video frame is stereoscopic or non stereoscopic based on the determined correlation.

In yet another aspect a non transitory medium readable through a computing device and including instructions embodied therein that are executable through the computing device is disclosed. The non transitory medium includes instructions to calculate through a processor of the computing device communicatively coupled to a memory correlation between two portions of an image and or a video frame on either side of a reference portion thereof. The non transitory medium also includes instructions to determine through the processor whether content of the image and or the video frame is stereoscopic or non stereoscopic based on the determined correlation.

The methods and systems disclosed herein may be implemented in any means for achieving various aspects and may be executed in a form of a machine readable medium embodying a set of instructions that when executed by a machine cause the machine to perform any of the operations disclosed herein. Other features will be apparent from the accompanying drawings and from the detailed description that follows.

Other features of the present embodiments will be apparent from the accompanying drawings and from the detailed description that follows.

Example embodiments as described below may be used to provide a method a system and or a device of automatic detection of stereoscopic content in video image data. Although the present embodiments have been described with reference to specific example embodiments it will be evident that various modifications and changes may be made to these embodiments without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the various embodiments.

It should be noted video content delivery system is not limited to the cloud gaming environment or video conferencing environment mentioned above. For example data source may also be a mere personal computer transmitting data wirelessly e.g. through Wi Fi to a tablet an example client device coupled to a television for display purposes through a High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI cable. Further content delivery system is not limited to data transmission through network . For example concepts discussed herein may also be applicable to processing associated with files locally stored on say client device . All example data streaming systems having the capability to incorporate concepts discussed herein therein are within the scope of the exemplary embodiments.

In typical solutions video frames images may be received at client device following which a decoder thereat decodes the video frames images. The video frames images may pass through conventional mono two dimensional 2D application delivery system framework s . During rendering at client device content of the video frames images may be displayed in stereoscopic stereo three dimensional 3D format based on metadata or supplemental information in the video image stream associated therewith the metadata indicating a type of stereo content and or required user input s to select the type of the content. For example stereo content may be available in different formats such as side by side e.g. reduced horizontal resolution of video image data to store the left and right eye images in each video frame image and top bottom e.g. reduced vertical resolution of the video image data to store the left and right eye images in each video frame image .

In typical content delivery scenarios the abovementioned metadata may not be embedded in the video stream image. Therefore the only way to procure the information may be through a user input e.g. user of client device another user . It may not be easy for a user to detect the stereo 3D content or type of the video image content without undue experimentation. In an alternate implementation the abovementioned metadata supplemental information may be stored in one or more external server s e.g. dedicated servers as property element s for each video image stream. Difficulty in data management and or unreliability in transmission of the metadata supplemental information to the rendering pipeline e.g. on client device may be some of the issues associated therewith.

It is obvious that an operating system may execute on client device . shows operating system as being stored in memory e.g. non volatile memory . In one or more embodiments client device may execute a multimedia application on processor multimedia application may be configured to render video image data as a stream on an interface thereon. shows multimedia application as being stored in memory to be executed on processor . also shows video data to be streamed through multimedia application as also being resident in memory e.g. volatile memory . In one or more embodiments multimedia application may utilize an Application Programming Interface API of a multimedia framework to be discussed with regard to in order to execute processing associated therewith.

In one or more embodiments output data associated with processing through processor may be input to a multimedia processing unit configured to perform encoding decoding associated with the data. In one or more embodiments the output of multimedia processing unit may be rendered on a display unit e.g. Liquid Crystal Display LCD display Cathode Ray Tube CRT monitor through a multimedia interface configured to convert data to an appropriate format required by display unit .

File reader may be configured to enable reading of video data obviously also applicable to image data further discussion involving video data should not be considered limiting . Parser e.g. Moving Picture Experts Group MPEG parser Audio Video Interleave AVI parser H.264 parser may parse video data into constituent parts thereof. Decoder may decode a compressed or an encoded version of video data and renderer may transmit the decoded data to a destination e.g. a rendering device . The rendering process may also include processes such as displaying multimedia on display unit playing an audio file on a soundcard writing the data to a file etc. It is obvious that the aforementioned engines or modules are merely shown for illustrative purposes and that variations therein are within the scope of the exemplary embodiments.

Further it is obvious that multimedia framework is merely shown for illustrative purposes and that exemplary embodiments are not limited to implementations involving multimedia framework . shows providing a capability to content delivery system to identify stereo 3D content even in the absence of the abovementioned metadata supplemental information according to one or more embodiments. In one or more embodiments the stereoscopic format detection may involve two operations that are performed independent of each other. In one or more embodiments a video sequence associated with video data may be processed at client device to determine a correlation between two portions e.g. portion and portion these portions may be stereo images stored as side by side images or top bottom images as will be discussed below around a reference portion O 0 0 e.g. center portion another portion of a video frame thereof. Here in one or more embodiments video frame including a left eye image and a right eye image with reference to a user such as user packed together may be from a photo video or a game source e.g. data source .

In one or more embodiments left eye image and right eye image may only have a slight offset therebetween in order to provide for a stereoscopic effect to the user e.g. user . This implies that the correlation between left eye image and right eye image may be optimal at a particular offset value around reference portion with respect to video frame . Thus in one or more embodiments at a particular offset say offset delimited by OF1 x y and OF2 x y relative to reference portion of video frame optimum correlation between portion and portion may be obtained. In one or more embodiments the offsets e.g. offset may be calculated for each row e.g. row of video frame based on correlating portion and portion . In one or more embodiments the calculated offsets may then be stored e.g. in memory for all rows of video frame . In one or more embodiments the average offset e.g. AVG may also be determined for the entire video frame .

In one or more embodiments the sample variance SV of the offsets around AVG may be determined as per the pseudo code below 

In one or more embodiments if SV is less than a threshold value derived as a factor of width of video frame FW which is a dimension perpendicular to IH then content of video frame may be identified as stereoscopic. It is obvious then that the variance of correlation of the offsets may be disparate in the case of video frame being a mono frame. Further it is obvious that the correlation variance analysis with respect to the top bottom format of video frame is similar to the analysis discussed above with respect to the side by side format thereof here offsets may be calculated for each column of video frame . The processes discussed above have been shown as correlation analysis in .

In one or more embodiments correlation analysis discussed above may also yield variation of direction and position of peak amplitudes of results thereof for example if maxima of peak amplitudes lie on one side of video frame then video frame may be of Left Right LR format else video frame may be of Right Left RL format . Thus in one or more embodiments directional distribution of peak amplitude values for each row e.g. row of video frame may be calculated and utilized for determining eye parity between portion and portion . For example it may be observed through analysis of stereo content that most streams have maximum amount of objects behind a virtual plane of zero depth and that only a small portion of objects protrude out with a depth. This observation may be utilized along with the direction of variation of peak amplitudes to determine eye parity for video frame .

In one or more embodiments the output of correlation analysis and or edge detection may be combined to determine whether the content of video frame is stereo or mono. shows the output of correlation analysis AND edge detection being utilized in a decision logic to determine the content of video frame . Decision logic may be implemented in hardware and or software. In one or more embodiments the output of correlation analysis and or decision logic may provide information for determining eye parity . In one or more embodiments the output of the determination of eye parity may provide information regarding the stereo mono content of video frame and or information regarding eye parity as an output of the entire process. As output includes the metadata supplemental information required output may be tagged to video frame and or stored in memory for further analysis and or subsequent transmission.

It should be noted that the aforementioned processes discussed with respect to the exemplary embodiments are not limited to execution thereof at client device . The processes may be executed at data source or even a server not shown but obvious separate from data source and client device . It is further obvious that data source and client device may be the same computing device in an alternate implementation. Also instructions associated with initiating the aforementioned processes may be provided as part of a driver component e.g. a set of instructions associated with processor and or operating system . Further the aforementioned driver component and or instructions related to the processes may be available along with an application executing on a computing device data source another server client device . The instructions related to the driver component and or the processors may also be available on a non transitory medium e.g. Compact Disc CD Digital Video Disc DVD Blu ray Disc hard disk to which related files can be stored downloaded readable through the computing device. Further the processes discussed above may not be limited to video frames the processes may be applied to images too. All reasonable variations are within the scope of the exemplary embodiments discussed herein.

Although the present embodiments have been described with reference to specific example embodiments it will be evident that various modifications and changes may be made to these embodiments without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the various embodiments. For example the various devices and modules described herein may be enabled and operated using hardware circuitry e.g. CMOS based logic circuitry firmware software or any combination of hardware firmware and software e.g. embodied in a machine readable medium . For example the various electrical structure and methods may be embodied using transistors logic gates and electrical circuits e.g. application specific integrated ASIC circuitry and or Digital Signal Processor DSP circuitry .

In addition it will be appreciated that the various operations processes and methods disclosed herein may be embodied in a machine readable medium and or a machine accessible medium compatible with a data processing system e.g. a computing device . Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

