---

title: Methods of preventing and treating diabetes by inhibiting serotonin synthesis
abstract: The present invention provides methods and therapeutic agents for lowering serum or plasma serotonin levels in a patient in order to prevent or treat diabetes. In preferred embodiments, the patient is known to have, or to be at risk for, diabetes and the agents are TPH1 inhibitors.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09150521&OS=09150521&RS=09150521
owner: The Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York
number: 09150521
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130131
---
This application claims priority from U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 594 170 filed Feb. 2 2012 the disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

The invention was made with Government support under NIH 2 RO1 DK 067936 awarded by the National Institutes of Health. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

The invention is in the field of the therapy of diabetes and provides methods for treating diabetes in mammals particularly in humans.

Diabetes mellitus non insulin dependent or Type II diabetes is a group of disorders characterized by high blood glucose levels hyperglycemia that generally involves an impaired insulin secretory response to glucose as well as insulin resistance. The mechanism of insulin action is impaired in diabetes leading to less glucose transport into muscle and fat. The elevated blood glucose levels that result can lead to a variety of serious health problems.

Serotonin 5 hydroxytryptamine 5 HT is a biogenic amine that functions both as a neurotransmitter in the mammalian central nervous system and as a hormone in the periphery where most of it is produced Gershon et al. 1990 Neuropsychopharmacology 3 385 395 . Serotonin is generated through an enzymatic cascade in which L tryptophan is converted into L 5 hydroxytryptophan by an enzyme called tryptophan hydroxylase TPH . This intermediate product is then converted to serotonin by an aromatic L amino acid decarboxylase. There are two TPH encoding genes TPH1 and TPH2 which are 71 identical in amino acid sequence and about 90 similar in their catalytic domains. While TPH1 controls serotonin synthesis in the periphery TPH2 is responsible for serotonin synthesis in the brain Walther et al. 2003 Science 299 76 . Given that serotonin cannot cross the blood brain barrier these two genes are therefore solely responsible for regulating the level of this molecule in the periphery and in the brain respectively.

TPH1 is expressed almost exclusively in cells of the duodenum and it is responsible for the synthesis of peripheral serotonin which represents 95 of total serotonin Gershon Tack 2007 Gastroenterology 132 397 414 . TPH1 expression in any tissues other than duodenum is at least 100 1000 fold lower. Thus TPH1 can be viewed as a duodenum specific gene and peripheral serotonin production as a duodenum specific process.

Besides its role as a neuromediator and because of its abundance in the general circulation serotonin has been implicated in a variety of developmental and physiological processes in peripheral tissues including heart development gastrointestinal movement liver regeneration and mammary gland development Lesurtel et al. 2006 Science 312 104 107 Matsuda et al. 2004 Dev. Cell 6 193 203 Nebigil et al. 2000 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 97 9508 9513 . To carry out its functions serotonin can bind to at least 14 receptors most of them being G protein coupled receptors GPCRs . One or several serotonin receptors are present in most cell types.

Mice genetically deficient for the TPH1 gene knockout mice have been reported. In one case the mice reportedly expressed normal amounts of serotonin in classical serotonergic brain regions but largely lacked serotonin in the periphery. In another the knockout mice exhibited abnormal cardiac activity which was attributed to a lack of peripheral serotonin C t et al. 2003 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 100 13525 13530 .

International Patent Application No. PCT US2009 038817 published as WO 2009 123978 the disclosure of which is incorporated herein in its entirety is directed to methods of diagnosing preventing and treating bone mass diseases using therapeutic agents for lowering or increasing serum serotonin levels. International Patent Application No. PCT US2009 064383 published as WO 2010 056992 the disclosure of which is incorporated herein in its entirety is also directed to methods of diagnosing preventing and treating bone mass diseases using therapeutic agents for lowering or increasing serum serotonin levels.

Other inhibitors of TPH1 are disclosed in International Patent Publications WO 09 123978 WO 10 056992 WO 08 073933 WO 09 002964 WO 09 002970 WO 09 009561 WO 09 014972 WO 09 029499 WO 09 042733 WO 09 048864 WO 10 065333 and WO 07 089335. Other disclosures of TPH1 inhibitors appear in U.S. Pat. No. 7 553 840 and U.S. Patent Application Publications Nos. US 2007 0191370 US 2008 0153852 US 2009 0005381 US 2009 0005382 US 2009 0029993 US 2009 0054308 US 2009 0062540 US 2009 0088447 and US 2009 0099206.

The present invention provides therapeutic agents that are inhibitors of tryptophan hydroxylase 1 TPH1 the enzyme responsible for the first step of serotonin synthesis in enterochromaffin cells of the duodenum for use in the treatment and or prevention of diabetes. Also provided are pharmaceutical compositions comprising the therapeutic agents for use in the treatment and or prevention of diabetes.

It has been discovered that serum or plasma serotonin in mammals is involved in the control of blood glucose levels. Thus in certain embodiments the present invention provides a method of lowering blood glucose levels and thus treating or preventing diabetes in a patient known or suspected to be in need of such treatment or prevention comprising administering to the patient known or suspected to be in need of such treatment or prevention a therapeutically effective amount of a TPH1 inhibitor. In certain embodiments the diabetes is Type II diabetes. In other embodiments the diabetes is Type I diabetes.

Other methods disclosed herein are directed to diagnosing a person at risk of developing diabetes by determining if the person s blood glucose level is abnormally high compared to normal individuals taking into account the age gender or other factors that affect blood glucose level e.g. whether the person is in the fasting or fed state . Such a person at risk may be treated with therapeutic agents that decrease serum or plasma serotonin to prevent diabetes from developing or to slow the development of diabetes. Those of skill in the art will understand that blood glucose levels may vary somewhat among individuals depending on certain factors and will be able to take those factors into account to determine whether a person has an abnormally high blood glucose level. Possible ranges which those skilled in the art may consider a person s blood glucose to be abnormally high may include blood glucose levels of greater than 90 mg dl greater than 100 mg dl greater than 110 mg dl greater than 120 mg dl greater than 130 mg dl greater than 140 mg dl or greater than 150 mg dl.

Certain embodiments of the methods disclosed herein are directed to diagnosing a person at risk of developing diabetes by determining if the person s blood level of HbA1c is abnormally high compared to normal individuals taking into account the age gender or other factors that affect HbA1c level. Such a person at risk may be treated with therapeutic agents that decrease serum or plasma serotonin to prevent diabetes from developing or to slow the development of diabetes. Those of skill in the art will understand that blood HbA1c levels may vary somewhat among individuals depending on certain factors and will be able to take those factors into account to determine whether a person has an abnormally high blood HbA1c level. Possible ranges which those skilled in the art may consider a person s blood HbA1c to be abnormally high may include above 48 mM or above 6.0 .

In one aspect the present invention provides a method of treating or preventing Type II diabetes in a patient known or suspected to be in need of such treatment or prevention comprising administering to the patient known or suspected to be in need of such treatment or prevention a therapeutically effective amount of a therapeutic agent that lowers the level of serum or plasma serotonin.

In one embodiment the present invention provides a method of treating or preventing Type II diabetes in a patient known or suspected to be in need of such treatment or prevention comprising administering to the patient known or suspected to be in need of such treatment or prevention a therapeutically effective amount of a TPH1 inhibitor. In preferred embodiments the therapeutic agent is a TPH1 inhibitor that does not cross the blood brain barrier. In other embodiments the therapeutic agent is a TPH1 inhibitor that does not significantly inhibit TPH2.

In certain embodiments the TPH1 inhibitor is selected from the following or from pharmaceutically acceptable salts and or solvates thereof 

Compounds encompassed by the formula immediately above include those wherein Aand or Ais optionally substituted cycloalkyl e.g. 6 membered and 5 membered . In some Aand or Ais optionally substituted aryl e.g. phenyl or naphthyl . In others Aand or Ais optionally substituted heterocycle e.g. 6 membered and 5 membered . Examples of 6 membered heterocycles include pyridine pyridazine pyrimidine pyrazine and triazine. Examples of 5 membered heterocycles include pyrrole imidazole triazole thiazole thiophene and furan. In some compounds Aand or Ais aromatic. In others Aand or Ais not aromatic.

Particular compounds include those wherein D is optionally substituted aryl e.g. phenyl or naphthyl . In others D is optionally substituted heterocycle e.g. 6 membered and 5 membered . Examples of 6 membered heterocycles include pyridine pyridazine pyrimidine pyrazine and triazine. Examples of 5 membered heterocycles include pyrrole imidazole triazole thiazole thiophene and furan. In some compounds D is aromatic. In others D is not aromatic. In some D is an optionally substituted bicyclic moiety e.g. indole iso indole pyrrolo pyridine or napthylene .

Particular compounds include those wherein E is optionally substituted aryl e.g. phenyl or naphthyl . In others E is optionally substituted heterocycle e.g. 6 membered and 5 membered . Examples of 6 membered heterocycles include pyridine pyridazine pyrimidine pyrazine and triazine. Examples of 5 membered heterocycles include pyrrole imidazole triazole thiazole thiophene and furan. In some compounds E is aromatic. In others E is not aromatic. In some E is an optionally substituted bicyclic moiety e.g. indole iso indole pyrrolo pyridine or napthylene .

In some compounds X is a bond or S. In others X is C R C R C RR C R C R or C C and for example Ris independently hydrogen or optionally substituted alkyl. In others X is O C RR O or OC RR and for example Ris hydrogen or optionally substituted alkyl and Ris hydrogen or optionally substituted alkyl. In some Ris hydrogen and Ris trifluoromethyl. In some compounds X is S O S O N R N R S O C RR S O or S O C RR and for example Ris hydrogen or optionally substituted alkyl Ris hydrogen or optionally substituted alkyl and Ris hydrogen or optionally substituted alkyl. In others X is N R N R C O N R C RR N R or N R C RR and for example Ris hydrogen or optionally substituted alkyl Ris hydrogen or optionally substituted alkyl and each Ris independently hydrogen or optionally substituted alkyl.

Some compounds are such that all of Z Z Z and Zare N. In others only three of Z Z Z and Zare N. In others only two of Z Z Z and Zare N. In others only one of Z Z Z and Zis N. In others none of Z Z Z and Zare N.

Some compounds are such that all of Z Z and Z are N or NH. In others only two of Z Z and Z are N or NH. In others only one of Z Z and Z is N or NH. In others none of Z Z and Z are N or NH.

Some compounds are such that all of Z Z Z and Z are N. In others only three of Z Z Z and Z are N. In others only two of Z Z Z and Z are N. In others only one of Z Z Z and Z is N. In others none of Z Z Z and Z are N.

Some compounds are such that all of Z Z Z and Z are N. In others only three of Z Z Z and Z are N. In others only two of Z Z Z and Z are N. In others only one of Z Z Z and Z is N. In others none of Z Z Z and Z are N.

In particular compounds above Ais aromatic. In others Ais not aromatic. In some Ais optionally substituted with one or more of halogen or lower alkyl.

In some compounds Ar is a structure comprising 1 4 optionally substituted linked cycloalkyl aryl or heterocycle rings. In some compounds Ar comprises 1 ring in some compounds Ar comprises 2 rings in some compounds Ar comprises 3 rings in some compounds Ar comprises 4 rings.

In some compounds A is fluoro substituted biphenyl X is N R is methyl X is C RR O Ris hydrogen and Ris substituted alkyl. In some of these compounds A is 3 fluorobiphenyl. In some of these compounds Ris halo substituted methyl. In some of these compounds D is substituted pyrimidinyl and E is phenyl. In some of these compounds D is 2 substituted pyrimidinyl.

In some compounds A is optionally substituted biphenyl X is C RR O Ris hydrogen Ris optionally substituted lower alkyl D is optionally substituted pyrimidinyl E is phenyl Xis N and R is lower alkyl. In some of these compounds A is 2 3 4 5 or 6 halo substituted biphenyl X is C RR O Ris hydrogen Ris halo substituted methyl or ethyl D is 2 substituted pyrimidinyl E is phenyl Xis N and R is methyl or ethyl. In some of these compounds A is 2 3 4 5 or 6 fluoro substituted biphenyl X is C RR O Ris hydrogen Ris fluoro substituted methyl D is 2 amino substituted pyrimidinyl E is phenyl Xis N and R is methyl.

In some compounds Ar is a structure comprising 1 4 optionally substituted linked cycloalkyl aryl or heterocycle rings. In some compounds Ar comprises 1 ring in some compounds Ar comprises 2 rings in some compounds Ar comprises 3 rings in some compounds Ar comprises 4 rings.

In some compounds Xis O n is 1 Ris hydrogen Ris hydrogen X is C RR O Ris hydrogen and Ris substituted alkyl.

In some compounds Xis O n is 1 Ris hydrogen Ris hydrogen X is C RR O Ris hydrogen and Ris substituted alkyl. In some of these embodiments A is fluoro substituted biphenyl and Ris hydrogen. In some of these embodiments A is 3 fluorobiphenyl. In some of these embodiments Ris halo substituted methyl. In some of these embodiments D is substituted pyrimidinyl and E is phenyl. In some of these embodiments D is 2 substituted pyrimidinyl.

In some compounds A is optionally substituted biphenyl X is C RR O Ris hydrogen Ris optionally substituted lower alkyl D is optionally substituted pyrimidinyl E is phenyl Xis O n is 1 Ris hydrogen or lower alkyl and Ris hydrogen or lower alkyl. In some of these compounds A is 2 3 4 5 or 6 halo substituted biphenyl X is C RR O Ris hydrogen Ris halo substituted methyl or ethyl D is 2 substituted pyrimidinyl E is phenyl Xis O n is 1 Ris hydrogen and Ris hydrogen. In some of these compounds A is 2 3 4 5 or 6 fluoro substituted biphenyl X is C RR O Ris hydrogen Ris fluoro substituted methyl D is 2 amino substituted pyrimidinyl E is phenyl Xis O n is 1 Ris hydrogen and Ris hydrogen.

In some compounds Xis O and n is 1. In certain embodiments the carbon having the HNRgroup is in the S configuration.

In some compounds Ar is a structure comprising 1 4 optionally substituted linked cycloalkyl aryl or heterocycle rings. In some compounds Ar comprises 1 ring in some compounds Ar comprises 2 rings in some compounds Ar comprises 3 rings in some compounds Ar comprises 4 rings.

In some compounds A is optionally substituted biphenyl X is C RR O Ris hydrogen Ris optionally substituted lower alkyl D is optionally substituted pyrimidinyl E is phenyl Xis CH or N Y is hydrogen or NH R is optionally substituted alkyl and Ris hydrogen or lower alkyl. In some of these compounds A is 2 3 4 5 or 6 halo substituted biphenyl X is C RR O Ris hydrogen Ris halo substituted methyl or ethyl D is 2 substituted pyrimidinyl E is phenyl Xis N Y is hydrogen R is optionally substituted lower alkyl and Ris hydrogen. In some of these compounds A is 2 3 4 5 or 6 fluoro substituted biphenyl X is C RR O Ris hydrogen Ris fluoro substituted methyl D is 2 amino substituted pyrimidinyl E is phenyl Xis N Y is hydrogen R is optionally substituted methyl or ethyl and Ris hydrogen.

The present invention provides pharmaceutical compositions comprising a therapeutically effective amount of an agent that lowers serum or plasma serotonin such as the TPH1 inhibitors disclosed herein and at least one pharmaceutically acceptable excipient. In certain embodiments the agent or TPH1 inhibitor may be in the form of a salt with a physiologically acceptable acid or base.

In certain embodiments the patient s level of serum or plasma serotonin is measured prior to administering a therapeutic agent that lowers the level of serum or plasma serotonin. In other embodiments the patient s level of serum or plasma serotonin is measured after administering the therapeutic agent that lowers the level of serum or plasma serotonin. In some embodiments the patient s level of serum or plasma serotonin is measured before and after administering the therapeutic agent that lowers the level of serum or plasma serotonin.

In certain embodiments the therapeutic agent that lowers the level of serum or plasma serotonin is repeatedly administered to the patient and the patient s level of serum or plasma serotonin is repeatedly measured until the patient s level of serum or plasma serotonin is reduced to a desired level e.g. by at least about 10 at least about 20 at least about 30 at least about 40 at least about 50 at least about 60 at least about 70 at least about 80 or at least about 90 compared to the level measured prior to the first administration of the therapeutic agent that lowers the level of serum or plasma serotonin.

In certain embodiments the patient has been identified as having a serum or plasma serotonin level that is more than 10 25 35 50 75 100 or 200 higher than the normal level of serum or plasma serotonin. Those of skill in the art will understand that serum or plasma serotonin levels may vary among individuals depending on certain factors and will be able to take those factors into account to determine whether a person has abnormally high serum or plasma serotonin levels. One possible range which those skilled in the art may consider to be normal serum or plasma serotonin levels is 101 283 ng ml nanograms per milliliter .

In certain embodiments the patient s level of serum or plasma serotonin is lowered by at least about 10 at least about 20 at least about 30 at least about 40 at least about 50 at least about 60 at least about 70 at least about 80 or at least about 90 compared to the level before administering the therapeutic agent that lowers the level of serum or plasma serotonin.

In certain embodiments the therapeutic agent that lowers the level of serum or plasma serotonin is administered in an amount of from about 1 mg day to about 2 g day.

The present invention also provides a method for identifying a patient having diabetes or at risk of developing diabetes and treating the patient comprising 

a determining the level of serum or plasma serotonin in a biological sample from the patient and in a biological sample from a normal subject 

b administering to the patient a therapeutically effective amount of a therapeutic agent disclosed herein if the level of serum or plasma serotonin in the sample from the patient is elevated by at least about 25 above the serum or plasma serotonin level in the sample from the normal subject 

In certain embodiments determining the level of serum or plasma serotonin of step a includes the formation of a complex between the serum or plasma serotonin from the biological sample and a reagent that specifically binds to serotonin.

In certain embodiments determining the level of serum or plasma serotonin of step a includes a process whereby the serum or plasma serotonin is transformed into a derivative of serotonin e.g. N acylserotonin.

In certain embodiments the administering to the patient a therapeutically effective amount of a therapeutic agent of step b results in the lowering of blood glucose levels in the patient.

The present invention provides a method of lowering blood glucose levels and thus treating or preventing diabetes in a patient known or suspected to be in need of such treatment or prevention comprising administering to the patient known or suspected to be in need of such treatment or prevention a therapeutically effective amount of an antagonist of the serotonin Htr2b receptor. In some embodiments the antagonist of the serotonin Htr2b receptor is a compound having the formula

The term substituted when used to describe a chemical structure or moiety refers to a derivative of that structure or moiety wherein one or more of its hydrogen atoms is substituted with an atom chemical moiety or functional group such as but not limited to alcohol aldehyde alkoxy alkanoyloxy alkoxycarbonyl alkenyl alkyl e.g. methyl ethyl propyl t butyl alkynyl alkylcarbonyloxy OC O alkyl amide C O NH alkyl or alkylNHC O alkyl amidinyl C NH NH alkyl or C NR NH amine primary secondary and tertiary such as alkylamino arylamino arylalkylamino aroyl aryl aryloxy azo carbamoyl NHC O O alkyl or OC O NH alkyl carbamyl e.g. CONH as well as CONH alkyl CONH aryl and CONH arylalkyl carbonyl carboxyl carboxylic acid carboxylic acid anhydride carboxylic acid chloride cyano ester epoxide ether e.g. methoxy ethoxy guanidino halo haloalkyl e.g. CCl CF C CF heteroalkyl hemiacetal imine primary and secondary isocyanate isothiocyanate ketone nitrile nitro oxygen i.e. to provide an oxo group phosphodiester sulfide sulfonamido e.g. SONH sulfone sulfonyl including alkylsulfonyl arylsulfonyl and arylalkylsulfonyl sulfoxide thiol e.g. sulfhydryl thioether and urea NHCONH alkyl .

The term alkenyl means a straight chain branched and or cyclic hydrocarbon having from 2 to 20 e.g. 2 to 10 or 2 to 6 carbon atoms and including at least one carbon carbon double bond. Representative alkenyl moieties include vinyl allyl 1 butenyl 2 butenyl isobutylenyl 1 pentenyl 2 pentenyl 3 methyl 1 butenyl 2 methyl 2 butenyl 2 3 dimethyl 2 butenyl 1 hexenyl 2 hexenyl 3 hexenyl 1 heptenyl 2 heptenyl 3 heptenyl 1 octenyl 2 octenyl 3 octenyl 1 nonenyl 2 nonenyl 3 nonenyl 1 decenyl 2 decenyl and 3 decenyl.

The term alkyl means a straight chain branched and or cyclic cycloalkyl hydrocarbon having from 1 to 20 e.g. 1 to 10 or 1 to 4 carbon atoms. Alkyl moieties having from 1 to 4 carbons are referred to as lower alkyl. Examples of alkyl groups include methyl ethyl propyl isopropyl n butyl t butyl isobutyl pentyl hexyl isohexyl heptyl 4 4 dimethylpentyl octyl 2 2 4 trimethylpentyl nonyl decyl undecyl and dodecyl. Cycloalkyl moieties may be monocyclic or multicyclic and examples include cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl cyclohexyl and adamantyl. Additional examples of alkyl moieties have linear branched and or cyclic portions e.g. 1 ethyl 4 methyl cyclohexyl . The term alkyl includes saturated hydrocarbons as well as alkenyl and alkynyl moieties.

The term alkoxy means an O alkyl group. Examples of alkoxy groups include OCH OCHCH O CH CH O CH CH O CH CH and O CH CH.

The term alkynyl means a straight chain branched or cyclic hydrocarbon having from 2 to 20 e.g. 2 to 20 or 2 to 6 carbon atoms and including at least one carbon carbon triple bond. Representative alkynyl moieties include acetylenyl propynyl 1 butynyl 2 butynyl 1 pentynyl 2 pentynyl 3 methyl 1 butynyl 4 pentynyl 1 hexynyl 2 hexynyl 5 hexynyl 1 heptynyl 2 heptynyl 6 heptynyl 1 octynyl 2 octynyl 7 octynyl 1 nonynyl 2 nonynyl 8 nonynyl 1 decynyl 2 decynyl and 9 decynyl.

The term aryl means an aromatic ring or an aromatic or partially aromatic ring system composed of carbon and hydrogen atoms. An aryl moiety may comprise multiple rings bound or fused together. Examples of aryl moieties include anthracenyl azulenyl biphenyl fluorenyl indan indenyl naphthyl phenanthrenyl phenyl 1 2 3 4 tetrahydro naphthalene and tolyl.

The term heteroalkyl refers to an alkyl moiety e.g. linear branched or cyclic in which at least one of its carbon atoms has been replaced with a heteroatom e.g. N O or S .

The term heteroaryl means an aryl moiety wherein at least one of its carbon atoms has been replaced with a heteroatom e.g. N O or S . Examples include acridinyl benzimidazolyl benzofuranyl benzoisothiazolyl benzoisoxazolyl benzoquinazolinyl benzothiazolyl benzoxazolyl furyl imidazolyl indolyl isothiazolyl isoxazolyl oxadiazolyl oxazolyl phthalazinyl pyrazinyl pyrazolyl pyridazinyl pyridyl pyrimidinyl pyrimidyl pyrrolyl quinazolinyl quinolinyl tetrazolyl thiazolyl and triazinyl.

The term heterocycle refers to an aromatic partially aromatic or non aromatic monocyclic or polycyclic ring or ring system comprised of carbon hydrogen and at least one heteroatom e.g. N O or S . A heterocycle may comprise multiple i.e. two or more rings fused or bound together. Heterocycles include heteroaryls. Examples include benzo 1 3 dioxolyl 2 3 dihydro benzo 1 4 dioxinyl cinnolinyl furanyl hydantoinyl morpholinyl oxetanyl oxiranyl piperazinyl piperidinyl pyrrolidinonyl pyrrolidinyl tetrahydrofuranyl tetrahydropyranyl tetrahydropyridinyl tetrahydropyrimidinyl tetrahydrothiophenyl tetrahydrothiopyranyl and valerolactamyl.

The term heterocycloalkyl or heterocycle alkyl refers to a heterocycle moiety bound to an alkyl moiety.

The term heterocycloalkylalkyl or heterocycloalkyl alkyl refers to a heterocycloalkyl moiety bound to an alkyl moiety.

 Prevention of or preventing diabetes means actively intervening as described herein prior to the overt onset of diabetes to prevent the development of diabetes or to minimize the extent of the diabetes or slow the course of development of the diabetes.

 Treatment of or treating diabetes means actively intervening as described herein after the onset of diabetes to slow down ameliorate symptoms of minimize the extent of or reverse the course of the diabetes in a patient who is known to have is at risk of or suspected to have diabetes.

Unless otherwise indicated a therapeutically effective amount of a therapeutic agent is an amount that provides a therapeutic benefit in the treatment or management of a disease or condition such as diabetes delays or minimizes one or more symptoms associated with the disease or condition or enhances the therapeutic efficacy of another therapeutic agent against the disease or condition. A therapeutic agent is said to be administered in a therapeutically effective amount if the amount administered results in a desired change in the physiology of a recipient mammal e.g. decreasing blood glucose levels in a mammal having or at risk of developing diabetes compared to pre treatment levels. That is the therapy results in treatment i.e. modulates the recipient mammal s physiology to more closely resemble that of corresponding non diseased state.

A patient is a mammal preferably a human but can also be a companion animal such as a dog or cat or farm animals such as horses cattle pigs or sheep.

In some embodiments a patient in need of prevention or treatment for diabetes may include a patient known or suspected of having or being at risk of developing diabetes. Such a patient in need of treatment could be e.g. a person known to have elevated blood glucose levels. Elevated blood glucose levels may include blood levels of greater than 100 mg dl when blood glucose levels are measured according to standard methods e.g. under fasting conditions .

In some embodiments a patient at risk of developing diabetes could include the elderly and the obese. Other persons in need of treatment or prevention by the methods of the present invention may include persons who are known to be in need of therapy to decrease serum or plasma serotonin levels in order to treat or prevent diabetes. In some embodiments such persons might include persons who have been identified as having a serum or plasma serotonin level that is about 25 or more above that of serum or plasma serotonin levels in normal subjects.

In some embodiments a patient at risk of developing diabetes could include a patient who has been diagnosed as having genetic factors that predispose the patient toward the development of diabetes.

In one embodiment a patient in need of treatment or prevention for diabetes by the methods of the present invention does not include a patient being treated with a TPH1 inhibitor where the patient is being treated with the TPH1 inhibitor only for a purpose other than to treat diabetes. Thus a patient in need of treatment or prevention for diabetes by the methods of the present invention does not include a patient being treated with a TPH1 inhibitor only for the purpose of treating chemotherapy induced emesis carcinoid syndrome or gastrointestinal disorders such as irritable bowel syndrome.

A patient in need of treatment or prevention for diabetes by the methods of the present invention does not include a patient being treated with a TPH1 inhibitor only for the purpose of treating gastrointestinal diseases and certain other disorders. Examples of specific diseases and disorders include abdominal pain e.g. associated with medullary carcinoma of the thyroid anxiety carcinoid syndrome celiac disease constipation e.g. constipation having an iatrogenic cause and idiopathic constipation Crohn s disease depression diarrhea e.g. bile acid diarrhea enterotoxin induced secretory diarrhea diarrhea having an iatrogenic cause idiopathic diarrhea e.g. idiopathic secretory diarrhea and traveler s diarrhea emesis functional abdominal pain functional anorectal disorders functional bloating functional dyspepsia functional gallbladder disorders irritable bowel syndrome IBS including IBD d IBS c and IBS a lactose intolerance MEN types I and II nausea Ogilvie s syndrome Pancreatic Cholera Syndrome pancreatic insufficiency pheochromacytoma scleroderma somatization disorder sphincter of Oddi disorders ulcerative colitis and Zollinger Ellison Syndrome. A patient in need of treatment or prevention for diabetes by the methods of the present invention does not include a patient being treated with a TPH1 inhibitor only for the purpose of treating these diseases and disorders.

A patient in need of treatment or prevention for diabetes by the methods of the present invention also does not include a patient being treated with a TPH1 inhibitor only for the purpose of treating the following diseases and disorders acute and chronic hypertension chronic obstructive pulmonary disease COPD pulmonary embolism e.g. bronchoconstriction and pulmonary hypertension following pulmonary embolism pulmonary hypertension e.g. pulmonary hypertension associated with portal hypertension and radiation pneumonitis including that giving rise to or contributing to pulmonary hypertension . Others include abdominal migraine adult respiratory distress syndrome ARDS carcinoid crisis CREST syndrome calcinosis Raynaud s phenomenon esophageal dysfunction sclerodactyl telangiectasia serotonin syndrome and subarachnoid hemorrhage.

A TPH1 inhibitor is a substance that reduces the amount of 5 hydroxytryptophan produced from tryptophan by TPH1 in a suitable assay as compared to the amount of 5 hydroxytryptophan produced from tryptophan by TPH1 in the assay in the absence of the substance. Preferably the reduction in the amount of 5 hydroxytryptophan produced is at least about 10 at least about 15 at least about 20 at least about 40 at least about 60 at least about 80 or at least about 90 . Examples of assays for determining the level of TPH1 inhibition by a substance are described in U.S. Patent Application Publication US 2009 0029993. In some embodiments the TPH1 inhibitor is a substance that reduces the amount of 5 hydroxytryptophan produced from tryptophan by TPH1 by a mechanism that involves binding of the substance to TPH1.

 Gut derived serotonin GDS refers to serotonin produced by TPH1 in the duodenum and is the major source for serotonin in the bloodstream i.e. for plasma and serum serotonin.

An antagonist of the serotonin Htr2b receptor as used herein refers to a substance which reduces the action or effect of signaling through the serotonin Htr2b receptor. Preferably such reduction of the action or effect of the serotonin Htr2b receptor occurs by a mechanism that involves binding of the substance to the serotonin Htr2b receptor.

Adaptation to food deprivation is a regulated survival function that requires continuous mobilization of energy from various sources. The data described herein show that gut derived serotonin GDS synthesis is enhanced by fasting and that this hormone promotes lipolysis by signaling in adipocytes through the Htr2b receptor to activate the lipolytic enzyme hormone sensitive lipase HSL . Additionally GDS promotes gluconeogenesis in the liver also by signaling through Htr2b to increase the activity of gluconeogenic enzymes fructose 1 6 bisphosphatase FBPase and glucose 6 phosphatase G6Pase . Hence GDS opposes deleterious consequences of food deprivation through two complementary mechanisms that can raise blood glucose levels. Thus inhibition of GDS synthesis lowers blood glucose levels and improves insulin resistance and glucose intolerance caused by a high fat diet. Small molecule inhibitors of GDS synthesis such as TPH1 inhibitors therefore should be of use to treat Type II diabetes.

The results presented herein reveal that GDS is a hormone whose synthesis is induced by fasting and that opposes deleterious consequences of food deprivation. To do so GDS favors glucose production by acting synergistically in adipocytes to promote release of glycerol a substrate of gluconeogenesis and in hepatocytes to actively promote gluconeogenesis . An important feature of this regulation is that pharmacological evidence indicates that it could be manipulated advantageously to fight Type II diabetes.

The results disclosed herein show that elevated serum or plasma serotonin increases blood glucose levels leading to diabetes. Thus certain embodiments of the invention are directed to methods for diagnosing and treating persons at risk of developing diabetes and to methods for treating or preventing diabetes by administering therapeutic agents that decrease the level of serum or plasma serotonin and thus decrease blood glucose levels.

One embodiment of the invention is directed to a method for determining if a patient is at risk of developing diabetes by measuring the patient s level of serum or plasma serotonin and then administering a therapeutic agent disclosed herein that is a TPH1 inhibitor to the patient if the patient s level of serum or plasma serotonin is elevated so as to indicate that the patient is at risk of developing diabetes. In one embodiment if the patient s level of serum or plasma serotonin is known to be significantly higher e.g. more than about 25 higher more than about 50 higher more than about 75 higher more than about 100 higher than the level in a normal subject then the patient is at risk of developing diabetes and one or more TPH1 inhibitors that reduce serotonin synthesis and thus serum or plasma serotonin levels is administered to reduce and preferably normalize serum or plasma serotonin levels thereby preventing diabetes from developing or minimizing the extent or the detrimental effects of diabetes should diabetes develop. Patient monitoring will determine if an abnormal serum or plasma serotonin level is chronic. If it is chronic then the patient may need to continue treatment over a prolonged period e.g. for one month six months one year two years three years or many years to normalize serum or plasma serotonin levels and or maintain normal levels of serum or plasma serotonin.

When a patient s level of serum or plasma serotonin is compared to the level of serum or plasma serotonin in a normal subject it should be understood that normal subject refers to a person who is matched to the patient in those characteristics that would be expected to affect serum or plasma serotonin levels e.g. gender age general health medications being taken etc.

The present invention provides a method of preventing or treating diabetes in a patient known or suspected to be in need of such prevention or treatment comprising administering to the patient a therapeutically effective amount of a therapeutic agent that decreases serum or plasma serotonin levels. In certain embodiments the method comprises administering to the patient therapeutically effective amounts of two or more therapeutic agents disclosed herein that decrease serum or plasma serotonin levels.

TPH1 inhibitors that may be used in certain of the methods of the present invention include the following including any racemic mixtures and individual enantiomers pharmaceutically acceptable salts or solvates thereof 

Other TPH1 inhibitors that may be used in the methods of the present invention include the following including any racemic mixtures and individual enantiomers pharmaceutically acceptable salts or solvates thereof 

In certain embodiments the TPH1 inhibitors disclosed herein reduce serum or plasma serotonin to a level that is at least about 10 less than the level before treatment with the TPH1 inhibitor. In certain embodiments the TPH1 inhibitor reduces serum or plasma serotonin to a level that is about 10 less about 20 less about 30 less about 40 less about 50 less about 60 less about 70 less about 80 less or about 90 less than the level before treatment with the TPH1 inhibitor.

In certain embodiments the methods described herein result in a decrease in blood glucose levels of at least about 5 at least about 10 at least about 15 at least about 20 at least about 25 at least about 30 at least about 35 at least about 40 at least about 45 at least about 50 at least about 55 or at least about 60 . In certain embodiments the methods described herein result in a decrease in blood glucose levels of at least about 5 mg dl at least about 10 mg dl at least about 15 mg dl at least about 20 mg dl at least about 25 mg dl at least about 30 mg dl at least about 35 mg dl at least about 40 mg dl at least about 45 mg dl at least about 50 mg dl at least about 55 mg dl or at least about 60 mg dl. In certain embodiments the methods described herein result in a decrease in blood glucose levels of 5 50 10 40 15 35 or 20 30 . In certain embodiments the methods described herein result in a decrease in blood glucose levels of from 5 50 mg dl 10 40 mg dl 15 35 mg dl or 20 30 mg dl. In certain embodiments the methods described herein result in a decrease in blood glucose levels of 5 10 10 20 20 30 30 40 or 40 50 . In certain embodiments the methods described herein result in a decrease in blood glucose levels of from 5 10 mg dl 10 20 mg dl 20 30 mg dl 30 40 mg dl or 40 50 mg dl.

Synthesis of the compounds described herein can be carried out by methods similar to those disclosed in U.S. Patent Application Publication US 2007 0191370 U.S. Patent Application Publication US 2008 0153852 U.S. Patent Application Publication US 2009 0005381 and U.S. Patent Application Publication US 2009 0029993. Moieties such as A X D and E can be prepared and linked according to the methods described in those patent applications. By choosing suitable starting materials for the remaining portion of the structures disclosed herein the remaining portion can be incorporated with the A X D or A X D E portion in the final structure and thus the compounds disclosed herein can be prepared.

One skilled in the art would be guided by other publications. For instance one skilled in the art could consult the Examples in International Patent Publication WO 2010 056992 and could for example choose intermediates such as the following from Scheme 1 of Example 9

Synthesis of specific compounds disclosed herein as well as the compounds within the generic formulas disclosed herein can also be carried out by methods similar to those disclosed in International Patent Publication WO 2007 089335 and International Patent Publication WO 2008 073933. Moieties such as A X D and E can be prepared and linked according to the methods described in WO 2007 089335 in particular the methods disclosed at pages 35 41. Further methods that can be turned to for guidance are shown on pages 14 17 of WO 2008 073933. By choosing suitable starting materials for the remaining portion of the structures disclosed herein e.g. the X 2 oxoacetate or X 2 oxoacetic acid moiety in certain of the generic formulas described above the remaining portion can be incorporated with the A X D or A X D E portion in the final structure and thus the compounds of the present invention can be prepared.

Certain compounds disclosed herein can be prepared according to the methods disclosed in International Patent Publication WO 2009 123978 or International Patent Publication WO 2010 056992 incorporated herein by reference in their entireties and specifically for the purpose of their disclosures of the synthesis of the compounds disclosed herein.

The present invention also encompasses the use of certain derivatives of the TPH1 inhibitors disclosed herein. For example prodrugs of the TPH1 inhibitors could be produced by esterifying the carboxylic acid functions of the TPH1 inhibitors with a lower alcohol e.g. methanol ethanol propanol isopropanol butanol etc. The use of prodrugs of the TPH1 inhibitors that are not esters is also contemplated. For example pharmaceutically acceptable carbonates thiocarbonates N acyl derivatives N acyloxyalkyl derivatives quaternary derivatives of tertiary amines N Mannich bases Schiff bases amino acid conjugates phosphate esters metal salts and sulfonate esters of the TPH1 inhibitors are also contemplated. In some embodiments the prodrugs will contain a biohydrolyzable moiety e.g. a biohydrolyzable amide biohydrolyzable carbamate biohydrolyzable carbonate biohydrolyzable ester biohydrolyzable phosphate or biohydrolyzable ureide analog . Guidance for the preparation of prodrugs of the TPH1 inhibitors disclosed herein can be found in publications such as Bundgaard A. Ed. Elsevier 1985 Krosgaard Larsen and H. Bundgaard Ed. 1991 Chapter 5 pages 113 191 and Bundgaard H. Advanced Drug Delivery Review 1992 8 pages 1 38.

In certain embodiments the TPH1 inhibitor inhibits TPH1 without significantly affecting the level of brain derived serotonin. Methods of obtaining such inhibitors include 1 screening for compounds that inhibit TPH1 to a much greater extent than TPH2 and 2 screening for compounds that while they inhibit both TPH1 and TPH2 cannot cross the blood brain barrier and thus are effectively specific for TPH1 when administered to the patient outside the central nervous system. Of course compounds that both inhibit TPH1 to a much greater extent than TPH2 and cannot cross the blood brain barrier are also suitable. Preferably compounds that inhibit TPH1 to a much greater extent than TPH2 have an ICfor TPH2 that is at least about 10 fold greater than their ICfor TPH1.

Unless otherwise indicated one or more adjectives immediately preceding a series of nouns is to be construed as applying to each of the nouns. For example the phrase optionally substituted alky aryl or heteroaryl has the same meaning as optionally substituted alky optionally substituted aryl or optionally substituted heteroaryl. 

A chemical moiety that forms part of a larger compound may be described herein using a name commonly accorded it when it exists as a single molecule or a name commonly accorded its radical. For example the terms pyridine and pyridyl are accorded the same meaning when used to describe a moiety attached to other chemical moieties. Thus the two phrases XOH wherein X is pyridyl and XOH wherein X is pyridine are accorded the same meaning and encompass the compounds pyridin 2 ol pyridin 3 ol and pyridin 4 ol.

If the stereochemistry of a structure or a portion of a structure is not indicated with for example bold or dashed lines or wedges the structure or the portion of the structure is to be interpreted as encompassing all stereoisomers of it unless the chemical name associated with the structure indicates otherwise. Similarly names of compounds having one or more chiral centers that do not specify the stereochemistry of those centers encompass pure stereoisomers and mixtures thereof. Moreover any atom shown in a drawing with unsatisfied valences is assumed to be attached to enough hydrogen atoms to satisfy the valences. When the stereochemistry of a structure or a portion of a structure is indicated with for example a bold or dashed line the use of that structure in the methods describe herein encompasses the use of the indicated stereochemistry substantially free of any of the non indicated structure. For example such use includes the use of the indicated structure where the indicated structure is present in an enantiomeric excess of 95 96 97 98 99 or 99.5 

Notwithstanding the above it is understood that the methods of the invention may encompass the use of pure R and S enantiomers of the compounds disclosed herein as well as racemic mixtures. Thus the disclose of the use of a compound without indication of any particular stereochemistry should be considered a disclosure of the use of that compound in the form of all racemic mixtures e.g. a mixture of about 50 R and 50 S enantiomers as well as a disclosure of the use of essentially pure enantiomers i.e. about 100 R or about 100 S enantiomers .

In certain embodiments of the invention a therapeutically effective amount of one or more of the TPH1 inhibitors described herein is administered in combination with other compounds or medications that are known to prevent or treat diabetes to a subject who has or is at risk of developing diabetes in order to treat or prevent diabetes. Classes of such compounds or medications include insulin biguanides meglitinides sulfonylureas thiazolidinediones alpha glucosidase inhibitors dipeptidyl peptidase inhibitors and ergot alkaloids. Particular compounds or medications include metformin GLUCOPHAGE GLUCOPHAGE XR GLUMETZA RIOMET FORTAMET repaglinide PRANDIN nateglinide STARLIX Chlorpropamide DIABINESE Glimepiride AMARYL glipizide GLUCOTROL glyburide DIABETA MICRONASE GLYNASE Tolazamide TOLINASE Tolbutamide ORINASE pioglitazone ACTOS rosiglitazone AVANDIA acarbose PRECOS miglitol GLYSET sitagliptide JANUVIA saxagliptin ONGLYZA and bromocriptine CYCLOSET .

In certain embodiments the TPH1 inhibitor is administered to a patient in need of treatment or prevention of diabetes in combination with an inhibitor of hormone sensitive lipase HSL . For example the TPH1 inhibitor may be administered with one or more of the following HSL inhibitors 

wherein Ris hydrogen or a chemical moiety that can be cleaved in vivo to release a hydroxyl group and includes for example aliphatic or aromatic acyl to form an ester bond and the like. Such aliphatic or aromatic groups can include a substituted or unsubstituted saturated or unsaturated aliphatic group a substituted or unsubstituted saturated or unsaturated alicyclic group a substituted or unsubstituted aromatic group a substituted or unsubstituted heteroaromatic group or a substituted or unsubstituted heterocyclic group a carbalkoxy a carbaryloxy SOH and SOR P O OH or P O OR 

wherein Ris a saturated or unsaturated aliphatic group substituted or unsubstituted aliphatic group substituted or unsubstituted saturated or unsaturated alicyclic group substituted or unsubstituted aromatic group substituted or unsubstituted heteroaromatic group substituted or unsubstituted heterocyclic group glucuronide or glucuronide ester P O OH and P O OR 

wherein Ris hydrogen or a hydroxyl protecting group as described in Protective Groups in Organic Synthesis by Therodora W. Greene Peter G. M. Wuts 1999 3edition pp 17 200 SOH and SORwhere Ris a saturated or unsaturated aliphatic group a substituted or unsubstituted saturated or unsaturated alicyclic group.

Ris selected from aryl or heteroaryl which may optionally be substituted with one or more substituents selected from hydroxy sulfanyl halogen amino sulfo C alkyl C alkenyl aryl heteroaryl C heterocyclyl and C cycloalkyl wherein each of hydroxy sulfanyl amino sulfo C alkyl C alkenyl aryl heteroaryl C heterocyclyl and C cycloalkyl is optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from hydroxy sulfanyl oxo halogen amino sulfo C alkyl C alkenyl aryl heteroaryl C heterocyclyl and C cycloalkyl wherein each of hydroxy sulfanyl amino sulfo C alkyl C alkenyl aryl heteroaryl C heterocyclyl and C cycloalkyl is optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from hydroxy sulfanyl oxo halogen amino C alkyl perhalomethyl and perhalomethoxy 

Ris selected from the group consisting of hydrogen OH Calkyl aryl heteroaryl OCheteroaryl O aryl O heteroaryl OCalkylenylaryl OCalkylenylheteroaryl and N R R 

R R R R and Rare each independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen Calkyl C O Calkyl C O C O Calkyl C O NRR and C O Chaloalkyl and

In certain embodiments the TPH1 inhibitor may be administered with one or more of the HSL inhibitors disclosed in International Patent Publication WO 2006 074957 International Patent Publication WO 2005 073199 International Patent Publication WO 2004 111031 International Patent Publication WO 2004 111004 International Patent Publication WO 2004 035550 International Patent Publication WO 2003 051841 International Patent Publication WO 2003 051842 or International Patent Publication WO 2001 066531.

In some embodiments the efficacy of therapy to prevent or treat diabetes by administering TPH1 inhibitors is monitored by measuring blood glucose levels before and over time after treatment to determine the efficacy of the therapy.

The amount of therapeutic agents such as TPH1 inhibitors disclosed herein to be administered to a patient depends on many factors as discussed herein. However in humans for example the amount may range from about 1 mg day to about 2 g day preferably from about 15 mg day to about 500 mg day or from about 20 mg day to about 250 mg day or from about 40 mg day to about 100 mg day. Other preferred dosages include about 2 mg day about 5 mg day about 10 mg day about 15 mg day about 20 mg day about 25 mg day about 30 mg day about 40 mg day about 50 mg day about 60 mg day about 70 mg day about 80 mg day about 90 mg day about 100 mg day about 125 mg day about 150 mg day about 175 mg day about 200 mg day about 250 mg day about 300 mg day about 350 mg day about 400 mg day about 500 mg day about 600 mg day about 700 mg day about 800 mg day and about 900 mg day.

Other dose ranges that may be used include from about 50 mg day to about 15 g day from about 50 mg day to about 10 g day from about 50 mg day to about 5 g day from about 50 mg day to about 1 g day from about 50 mg day to about 900 mg day from about 50 mg day to about 800 mg day from about 50 mg day to about 700 mg day from about 50 mg day to about 600 mg day from about 50 mg day to about 500 mg day from about 50 mg day to about 400 mg day from about 50 mg day to about 300 mg day or from about 50 mg day to about 200 mg day.

Other dose ranges that may be used include from about 100 mg day to about 15 g day from about 100 mg day to about 10 g day from about 100 mg day to about 5 g day from about 100 mg day to about 1 g day from about 100 mg day to about 900 mg day from about 100 mg day to about 800 mg day from about 100 mg day to about 700 mg day from about 100 mg day to about 600 mg day from about 100 mg day to about 500 mg day from about 100 mg day to about 400 mg day from about 100 mg day to about 300 mg day or from about 100 mg day to about 200 mg day.

Other dose ranges that may be used include from about 200 mg day to about 15 g day from about 200 mg day to about 10 g day from about 200 mg day to about 5 g day from about 200 mg day to about 1 g day from about 200 mg day to about 900 mg day from about 200 mg day to about 800 mg day from about 200 mg day to about 700 mg day from about 200 mg day to about 600 mg day from about 200 mg day to about 500 mg day from about 200 mg day to about 400 mg day or from about 200 mg day to about 300 mg day.

Other dose ranges that may be used include from about 300 mg day to about 15 g day from about 300 mg day to about 10 g day from about 300 mg day to about 5 g day from about 300 mg day to about 1 g day from about 300 mg day to about 900 mg day from about 300 mg day to about 800 mg day from about 300 mg day to about 700 mg day from about 300 mg day to about 600 mg day from about 300 mg day to about 500 mg day or from about 300 mg day to about 400 mg day.

Other dose ranges that may be used include from about 400 mg day to about 15 g day from about 400 mg day to about 10 g day from about 400 mg day to about 5 g day from about 400 mg day to about 1 g day from about 400 mg day to about 900 mg day from about 400 mg day to about 800 mg day from about 400 mg day to about 700 mg day from about 400 mg day to about 600 mg day or from about 400 mg day to about 500 mg day.

Other dose ranges that may be used include from about 500 mg day to about 15 g day from about 500 mg day to about 10 g day from about 500 mg day to about 5 g day from about 500 mg day to about 4 g day from about 500 mg day to about 3 g day from about 500 mg day to about 2 g day from about 500 mg day to about 1 g day from about 500 mg day to about 900 mg day from about 500 mg day to about 800 mg day from about 500 mg day to about 700 mg day or from about 500 mg day to about 600 mg day.

Other dose ranges that may be used include from about 600 mg day to about 15 g day from about 600 mg day to about 10 g day from about 600 mg day to about 5 g day from about 600 mg day to about 4 g day from about 600 mg day to about 3 g day from about 600 mg day to about 2 g day from about 600 mg day to about 1 g day from about 600 mg day to about 900 mg day from about 600 mg day to about 800 mg day or from about 600 mg day to about 700 mg day.

Other dose ranges that may be used include from about 700 mg day to about 15 g day from about 700 mg day to about 10 g day from about 700 mg day to about 5 g day from about 700 mg day to about 4 g day from about 700 mg day to about 3 g day from about 700 mg day to about 2 g day from about 700 mg day to about 1 g day from about 700 mg day to about 900 mg day or from about 700 mg day to about 800 mg day.

Other dose ranges that may be used include from about 800 mg day to about 15 g day from about 800 mg day to about 10 g day from about 800 mg day to about 5 g day from about 800 mg day to about 4 g day from about 800 mg day to about 3 g day from about 800 mg day to about 2 g day from about 800 mg day to about 1 g day or from about 800 mg day to about 900 mg day.

Other dose ranges that may be used include from about 900 mg day to about 15 g day from about 900 mg day to about 10 g day from about 900 mg day to about 5 g day from about 900 mg day to about 4 g day from about 900 mg day to about 3 g day from about 900 mg day to about 2 g day or from about 900 mg day to about 1 g day.

Other dose ranges that may be used include from about 1 g day to about 15 g day from about 1 g day to about 10 g day from about 1 g day to about 5 g day from about 1 g day to about 4 g day from about 1 g day to about 3 g day or from about 1 g day to about 2 g day.

Other dosages that may be used include from about 1 g day about 2 g day about 3 g day about 4 g day about 5 g day about 6 g day about 7 g day about 8 g day about 9 g day about 10 g day about 11 g day about 12 g day about 13 g day about 14 g day or about 15 g day.

The amount of therapeutic agent disclosed herein to be administered to a patient may range from about 5 mg kg day to about 500 mg kg day from about 5 mg kg day to about 400 mg kg day from about 5 mg kg day to about 300 mg kg day from about 5 mg kg day to about 250 mg kg day from about 5 mg kg day to about 200 mg kg day from about 5 mg kg day to about 150 mg kg day from about 5 mg kg day to about 100 mg kg day from about 5 mg kg day to about 75 mg kg day from about 5 mg kg day to about 50 mg kg day from about 5 mg kg day to about 40 mg kg day from about 5 mg kg day to about 35 mg kg day from about 5 mg kg day to about 30 mg kg day from about 5 mg kg day to about 25 mg kg day from about 5 mg kg day to about 24 mg kg day from about 5 mg kg day to about 23 mg kg day from about 5 mg kg day to about 22 mg kg day from about 5 mg kg day to about 21 mg kg day from about 5 mg kg day to about 20 mg kg day from about 5 mg kg day to about 19 mg kg day from about 5 mg kg day to about 18 mg kg day from about 5 mg kg day to about 17 mg kg day from about 5 mg kg day to about 16 mg kg day from about 5 mg kg day to about 15 mg kg day from about 5 mg kg day to about 14 mg kg day from about 5 mg kg day to about 13 mg kg day from about 5 mg kg day to about 12 mg kg day from about 5 mg kg day to about 11 mg kg day or from about 5 mg kg day to about 10 mg kg day.

Other dose ranges that may be used include from about 10 mg kg day to about 500 mg kg day from about 10 mg kg day to about 400 mg kg day from about 10 mg kg day to about 300 mg kg day from about 10 mg kg day to about 250 mg kg day from about 10 mg kg day to about 200 mg kg day from about 10 mg kg day to about 150 mg kg day from about 10 mg kg day to about 100 mg kg day from about 10 mg kg day to about 75 mg kg day from about 10 mg kg day to about 50 mg kg day from about 10 mg kg day to about 45 mg kg day from about 10 mg kg day to about 40 mg kg day from about 10 mg kg day to about 35 mg kg day from about 10 mg kg day to about 34 mg kg day from about 10 mg kg day to about 33 mg kg day from about 10 mg kg day to about 32 mg kg day from about 10 mg kg day to about 31 mg kg day from about 10 mg kg day to about 30 mg kg day from about 10 mg kg day to about 29 mg kg day from about 10 mg kg day to about 28 mg kg day from about 10 mg kg day to about 27 mg kg day from about 10 mg kg day to about 26 mg kg day from about 10 mg kg day to about 25 mg kg day from about 10 mg kg day to about 24 mg kg day from about 10 mg kg day to about 23 mg kg day from about 10 mg kg day to about 22 mg kg day from about 10 mg kg day to about 21 mg kg day from about 10 mg kg day to about 20 mg kg day from about 10 mg kg day to about 19 mg kg day from about 10 mg kg day to about 18 mg kg day from about 10 mg kg day to about 17 mg kg day from about 10 mg kg day to about 16 mg kg day or from about 10 mg kg day to about 15 mg kg day.

Other dose ranges that may be used include from about 15 mg kg day to about 500 mg kg day from about 15 mg kg day to about 400 mg kg day from about 15 mg kg day to about 300 mg kg day from about 15 mg kg day to about 250 mg kg day from about 15 mg kg day to about 200 mg kg day from about 15 mg kg day to about 150 mg kg day from about 15 mg kg day to about 100 mg kg day from about 15 mg kg day to about 75 mg kg day from about 15 mg kg day to about 50 mg kg day from about 15 mg kg day to about 40 mg kg day from about 15 mg kg day to about 30 mg kg day from about 15 mg kg day to about 25 mg kg day or from about 15 mg kg day to about 20 mg kg day.

Other dose ranges that may be used include from about 20 mg kg day to about 500 mg kg day from about 20 mg kg day to about 400 mg kg day from about 20 mg kg day to about 300 mg kg day from about 20 mg kg day to about 250 mg kg day from about 20 mg kg day to about 200 mg kg day from about 20 mg kg day to about 150 mg kg day from about 20 mg kg day to about 100 mg kg day from about 20 mg kg day to about 75 mg kg day from about 20 mg kg day to about 50 mg kg day from about 20 mg kg day to about 40 mg kg day from about 20 mg kg day to about 30 mg kg day or from about 20 mg kg day to about 25 mg kg day.

Other dose ranges that may be used include from about 25 mg kg day to about 500 mg kg day from about 25 mg kg day to about 400 mg kg day from about 25 mg kg day to about 300 mg kg day from about 25 mg kg day to about 250 mg kg day from about 25 mg kg day to about 200 mg kg day from about 25 mg kg day to about 150 mg kg day from about 25 mg kg day to about 100 mg kg day from about 25 mg kg day to about 75 mg kg day from about 25 mg kg day to about 50 mg kg day from about 25 mg kg day to about 40 mg kg day or from about 25 mg kg day to about 30 mg kg day.

Other dose ranges that may be used include from about 30 mg kg day to about 500 mg kg day from about 30 mg kg day to about 400 mg kg day from about 30 mg kg day to about 300 mg kg day from about 30 mg kg day to about 250 mg kg day from about 30 mg kg day to about 200 mg kg day from about 30 mg kg day to about 150 mg kg day from about 30 mg kg day to about 100 mg kg day from about 30 mg kg day to about 75 mg kg day from about 30 mg kg day to about 50 mg kg day or from about 30 mg kg day to about 40 mg kg day.

Other dose ranges that may be used include from about 40 mg kg day to about 500 mg kg day from about 40 mg kg day to about 400 mg kg day from about 40 mg kg day to about 300 mg kg day from about 40 mg kg day to about 250 mg kg day from about 40 mg kg day to about 200 mg kg day from about 40 mg kg day to about 150 mg kg day from about 40 mg kg day to about 100 mg kg day from about 40 mg kg day to about 75 mg kg day from about 40 mg kg day to about 60 mg kg day or from about 40 mg kg day to about 50 mg kg day.

Other dose ranges that may be used include from about 50 mg kg day to about 500 mg kg day from about 50 mg kg day to about 400 mg kg day from about 50 mg kg day to about 300 mg kg day from about 50 mg kg day to about 250 mg kg day from about 50 mg kg day to about 200 mg kg day from about 50 mg kg day to about 175 mg kg day from about 50 mg kg day to about 150 mg kg day from about 50 mg kg day to about 125 mg kg day from about 50 mg kg day to about 100 mg kg day from about 50 mg kg day to about 75 mg kg day or from about 50 mg kg day to about 60 mg kg day.

Other dose ranges that may be used include from about 60 mg kg day to about 500 mg kg day from about 60 mg kg day to about 400 mg kg day from about 60 mg kg day to about 300 mg kg day from about 60 mg kg day to about 250 mg kg day from about 60 mg kg day to about 200 mg kg day from about 60 mg kg day to about 175 mg kg day from about 60 mg kg day to about 150 mg kg day from about 60 mg kg day to about 125 mg kg day from about 60 mg kg day to about 100 mg kg day or from about 60 mg kg day to about 75 mg kg day.

Other dose ranges that may be used include from about 70 mg kg day to about 500 mg kg day from about 70 mg kg day to about 400 mg kg day from about 70 mg kg day to about 300 mg kg day from about 70 mg kg day to about 250 mg kg day from about 70 mg kg day to about 200 mg kg day from about 70 mg kg day to about 175 mg kg day from about 70 mg kg day to about 150 mg kg day from about 70 mg kg day to about 125 mg kg day or from about 70 mg kg day to about 100 mg kg day.

Other dose ranges that may be used include from about 80 mg kg day to about 500 mg kg day from about 80 mg kg day to about 400 mg kg day from about 80 mg kg day to about 300 mg kg day from about 80 mg kg day to about 250 mg kg day from about 80 mg kg day to about 200 mg kg day from about 80 mg kg day to about 175 mg kg day from about 80 mg kg day to about 150 mg kg day from about 80 mg kg day to about 125 mg kg day or from about 80 mg kg day to about 100 mg kg day.

Other dose ranges that may be used include from about 90 mg kg day to about 500 mg kg day from about 90 mg kg day to about 400 mg kg day from about 90 mg kg day to about 300 mg kg day from about 90 mg kg day to about 250 mg kg day from about 90 mg kg day to about 200 mg kg day from about 90 mg kg day to about 175 mg kg day from about 90 mg kg day to about 150 mg kg day from about 90 mg kg day to about 125 mg kg day or from about 90 mg kg day to about 100 mg kg day.

Other dose ranges that may be used include from about 100 mg kg day to about 500 mg kg day from about 100 mg kg day to about 400 mg kg day from about 100 mg kg day to about 300 mg kg day from about 100 mg kg day to about 250 mg kg day from about 100 mg kg day to about 200 mg kg day from about 100 mg kg day to about 175 mg kg day from about 100 mg kg day to about 150 mg kg day or from about 100 mg kg day to about 125 mg kg day.

Other dosages that may be used include about 5 mg kg day about 6 mg kg day about 7 mg kg day about 8 mg kg day about 9 mg kg day about 10 mg kg day about 11 mg kg day about 12 mg kg day about 13 mg kg day about 14 mg kg day about 15 mg kg day about 16 mg kg day about 17 mg kg day about 18 mg kg day about 19 mg kg day about 20 mg kg day about 21 mg kg day about 22 mg kg day about 23 mg kg day about 24 mg kg day about 25 mg kg day about 26 mg kg day about 27 mg kg day about 28 mg kg day about 29 mg kg day about 30 mg kg day about 31 mg kg day about 32 mg kg day about 33 mg kg day about 34 mg kg day about 35 mg kg day about 36 mg kg day about 37 mg kg day about 38 mg kg day about 39 mg kg day about 40 mg kg day about 45 mg kg day about 50 mg kg day about 60 mg kg day about 70 mg kg day about 80 mg kg day about 90 mg kg day about 100 mg kg day about 125 mg kg day about 150 mg kg day about 175 mg kg day about 200 mg kg day about 250 mg kg day or about 350 mg kg day.

The amounts and dosages of therapeutic agents disclosed above may be administered in the form of a once per day pharmaceutical composition. Thus e.g. the disclosure of 50 mg day is to be taken as including the disclosure of a pharmaceutical composition comprising a therapeutic agent as disclosed herein where the pharmaceutical composition comprises 50 mg of the therapeutic agent.

Routine experimentation will determine the appropriate dosage for each patient and each therapeutic agent by monitoring the therapeutic agent s effect on serum or plasma serotonin levels which can be frequently and easily monitored. The therapeutic agent can be administered once or multiple times per day. Serum or plasma serotonin levels can be monitored before and during therapy to determine the appropriate amount of therapeutic agent to administer to lower serum or plasma serotonin levels or bring serum or plasma serotonin levels to normal and to maintain normal levels over extended periods of time. The frequency of administration may vary from a single dose per day to multiple doses per day. Preferred routes of administration include oral intravenous and intraperitoneal but other forms of administration may be chosen as well.

In certain embodiments the therapeutic agents of the invention act selectively on peripheral serotonin or are administered in an amount that decreases serum or plasma serotonin without increasing or decreasing brain derived serotonin.

Monitoring the therapeutic efficacy of TPH1 inhibitors is straightforward as one can administer the TPH1 inhibitors in an amount and for a duration that reduces serum or plasma serotonin levels and over time decreases blood glucose levels. Serum or plasma serotonin levels and blood glucose levels can be easily measured. Monitoring serum or plasma serotonin is simple and can be done frequently during the course of therapy to establish the appropriate dose for each patient. Any method known in the art for assaying serum or plasma serotonin can be used. Measuring blood glucose levels may also be done by methods known in the art.

In certain embodiments the methods of the present invention comprise the step of identifying a patient in need of therapy for diabetes. Thus the present invention provides a method comprising 

 b administering to the patient a therapeutically effective amount of a therapeutic agent that decreases serum or plasma serotonin levels in order to prevent or treat diabetes in the patient identified in step a .

In certain embodiments identifying in step a above may be done by measuring the patient s level of blood serum or plasma serotonin e.g. by forming a detectable complex of blood serum or plasma serotonin and a reagent that binds to blood serum or plasma serotonin in order to determine the patient s level of blood serum or plasma serotonin where an elevated level of blood serum or plasma serotonin identifies the patient as being in need of therapy for diabetes. In certain embodiments the reagent is an antibody or antibody fragment that binds to serotonin. In certain embodiments the antibody or antibody fragment that binds to serotonin is labeled e.g. radioactively antigenically fluorescently with peroxidase etc. and measuring the patient s level of blood serum or plasma serotonin includes the step of detecting a physical transformation in the label e.g. radioactive decay of the label or in a substance acted upon by the label oxidation of a substrate by a peroxidase label .

In certain embodiments identifying in step a above includes transforming serotonin from a bodily sample from the patient into a derivative of serotonin e.g. N acylserotonin. In certain embodiments identifying in step a above includes subjecting serotonin or a serotonin derivative from a bodily sample from the patient to chromatography where the serotonin is separated from the components of the blood with which it is normally found and interacts with the stationary phase used in the chromatographic process.

In certain embodiments the patient s level of blood serum or plasma serotonin is determined to be elevated in comparison to a standard level of blood serum or plasma serotonin that has previously been determined to be a normal level. In other embodiments the patient s level of blood serum or plasma serotonin is determined to be elevated in comparison to a level of blood serum or plasma serotonin measured in a person who is known not to be in need of therapy for diabetes. In other embodiments the patient s level of blood serum or plasma serotonin is determined to be elevated in comparison to a level of blood serum or plasma serotonin measured in the patient at a time when the patient was known not to be in need of therapy for diabetes.

In certain embodiments a patient in need of therapy for diabetes is a patient with an elevated blood glucose level identifying in step a above may be done by measuring the patient s blood glucose level e.g. by forming a detectable complex of glucose obtained from the blood of the patient and a reagent that binds to glucose in order to determine the patient s blood glucose level where an elevated blood glucose level identifies the patient as being in need of therapy for diabetes. In certain embodiments the reagent is labeled e.g. radioactively antigenically fluorescently with peroxidase etc. and measuring the patient s blood glucose level includes the step of detecting a physical transformation in the label e.g. radioactive decay of the label or in a substance acted upon by the label oxidation of a substrate by a peroxidase label to transform the substrate into a different substance .

In certain embodiments identifying in step a above includes transforming glucose from a bodily sample from the patient into a derivative of glucose e.g. by contacting glucose from the patient s blood with glucose oxidase thereby oxidizing the glucose. In certain embodiments identifying in step a above includes subjecting glucose or a glucose derivative from a bodily sample from the patient to chromatography where the glucose is separated from the components of the blood with which it is normally found and interacts with the stationary phase used in the chromatographic process.

In certain embodiments the patient s level of blood glucose is determined to be elevated in comparison to a standard level of blood glucose that has previously been determined to be a normal level. In other embodiments the patient s level of blood glucose is determined to be elevated in comparison to a level of blood glucose measured in a person who is known not to be in need of therapy for diabetes. In other embodiments the patient s level of blood glucose is determined to be elevated in comparison to a level of blood glucose measured in the patient at a time when the patient was known not to be in need of therapy for diabetes.

The present invention encompasses a TPH1 inhibitor for use in the prevention or treatment of diabetes in a patient in need of such prevention or treatment. The patient is preferably a mammal e.g. a human. The TPH1 inhibitor may be a therapeutic agent selected from therapeutic agents 1 189 disclosed herein or the therapeutic agents listed in Table 1. In certain embodiments the diabetes is Type II diabetes. In other embodiments the diabetes is Type I diabetes.

The present invention encompasses the use a TPH1 inhibitor for the manufacture of a medicament for preventing or treating diabetes. In certain embodiments the present invention encompasses the use of a therapeutic agent selected from therapeutic agents 1 189 disclosed herein or the therapeutic agents listed in Table 1 for the manufacture of a medicament for preventing or treating diabetes. In certain embodiments the diabetes is Type II diabetes. In other embodiments the diabetes is Type I diabetes.

Therapeutic agents such as the TPH1 inhibitors described herein may be formulated into pharmaceutical compositions. The pharmaceutical compositions may be solids or liquids. The therapeutic agents may be present in the pharmaceutical compositions in the form of salts of pharmaceutically acceptable acids or in the form of bases. The therapeutic agents may be present in amorphous form or in crystalline forms including hydrates and solvates. Preferably the pharmaceutical compositions comprise a therapeutically effective amount of a TPH1 inhibitor.

Pharmaceutically acceptable derivatives of any of the TPH1 inhibitors described herein are within the scope of the invention. A pharmaceutically acceptable derivative of a TPH1 inhibitor means any non toxic derivative of a TPH1 inhibitor described herein that upon administration to a patient exhibits the same or similar activity with respect to reducing blood serum or plasma serotonin levels as the TPH1 inhibitor described herein.

Pharmaceutically acceptable salts of the therapeutic agents described herein for use in treating or preventing diabetes include those salts derived from pharmaceutically acceptable inorganic and organic acids and bases. Examples of suitable acid salts include acetate adipate alginate aspartate benzoate benzenesulfonate bisulfate butyrate citrate camphorate camphorsulfonate cyclopentanepropionate digluconate dodecylsulfate ethanesulfonate formate fumarate glucoheptanoate glycerophosphate glycolate hemisulfate heptanoate hexanoate hydrochloride hydrobromide hydroiodide 2 hydroxyethanesulfonate lactate maleate malonate methanesulfonate 2 naphthalenesulfonate nicotinate nitrate oxalate palmoate pectinate persulfate 3 phenylpropionate phosphate picrate pivalate propionate salicylate succinate sulfate tartrate thiocyanate tosylate and undecanoate salts. Other acids such as oxalic while not in themselves pharmaceutically acceptable may be employed in the preparation of salts useful as intermediates in obtaining the therapeutic agents of the invention and their pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salts.

Salts derived from appropriate bases include alkali metal e.g. sodium and potassium alkaline earth metal e.g. magnesium ammonium and N Calkyl salts. The present invention also envisions the quaternization of any basic nitrogen containing groups of the therapeutic agents disclosed herein. Water or oil soluble or dispersible products may be obtained by such quaternization.

The therapeutic agents disclosed herein are also meant to include all stereochemical forms of the therapeutic agents i.e. the R and S configurations for each asymmetric center . Therefore the use of single enantiomers racemic mixtures and diastereomers of the therapeutic agents is within the scope of the invention. Also within the scope of the invention is the use of steric isomers and positional isomers of the therapeutic agents. The therapeutic agents of the present invention are also meant to include compounds which differ only in the presence of one or more isotopically enriched atoms. For example therapeutic agents in which one or more hydrogens are replaced by deuterium or tritium or the replacement of one or more carbons by C or C enriched carbon are within the scope of this invention.

In a particular embodiment the therapeutic agents of the present invention are administered in a pharmaceutical composition that includes a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier adjuvant or vehicle. The term pharmaceutically acceptable carrier adjuvant or vehicle refers to a non toxic carrier adjuvant or vehicle that does not destroy or significantly diminish the pharmacological activity of the therapeutic agent with which it is formulated. Pharmaceutically acceptable carriers adjuvants or vehicles that may be used in the pharmaceutical compositions of this invention encompass any of the standard pharmaceutically accepted solid carriers as well as liquid carriers such as a phosphate buffered saline solution water as well as emulsions such as an oil water emulsion or a triglyceride emulsion. An example of an acceptable triglyceride emulsion useful in the intravenous and intraperitoneal administration of the compounds is the triglyceride emulsion commercially known as INTRALIPID . Solid carriers may include excipients such as starch milk sugar certain types of clay stearic acid talc gums glycols or other known excipients. Carriers may also include flavor and color additives or other ingredients.

The pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention are preferably administered orally. However the pharmaceutical compositions may be administered parenterally by inhalation spray topically rectally nasally buccally vaginally or via an implanted reservoir. Preferably the pharmaceutical compositions are administered orally intraperitoneally or intravenously. Sterile injectable forms of the pharmaceutical compositions may be aqueous or oleaginous suspensions. These suspensions may be formulated according to techniques known in the art using suitable dispersing or wetting agents and suspending agents. The sterile injectable preparation may also be a sterile injectable solution or suspension in a non toxic parenterally acceptable diluent or solvent for example as a solution in 1 3 butanediol. Among the acceptable vehicles and solvents that may be employed are water Ringer s solution and isotonic sodium chloride solutions. In addition sterile fixed oils are conventionally employed as a solvent or suspending medium.

For this purpose any bland fixed oil may be employed including synthetic mono or di glycerides. Fatty acids such as oleic acid and its glyceride derivatives are useful in the preparation of injectables as are natural pharmaceutically acceptable oils such as olive oil or castor oil especially in their polyoxyethylated versions. These oil solutions or suspensions may also contain a long chain alcohol diluent or dispersant such as carboxymethyl cellulose or similar dispersing agents that are commonly used in the formulation of pharmaceutically acceptable dosage forms including emulsions and suspensions. Other commonly used surfactants such as Tweens Spans and other emulsifying agents or bioavailability enhancers which are commonly used in the manufacture of pharmaceutically acceptable solid liquid or other dosage forms may also be used for the purposes of formulation.

The pharmaceutical compositions of this invention may be orally administered in any orally acceptable dosage form including but not limited to solid forms such as capsules and tablets. In the case of tablets for oral use carriers commonly used include microcrystalline cellulose lactose and corn starch. Lubricating agents such as magnesium stearate are also typically added. When aqueous suspensions are required for oral use the active ingredient may be combined with emulsifying and suspending agents. If desired certain sweetening flavoring or coloring agents may also be added.

The pharmaceutical compositions of this invention may also be administered by nasal aerosol or inhalation. Such pharmaceutical compositions are prepared according to techniques well known in the art of pharmaceutical formulation and may be prepared as solutions in saline employing benzyl alcohol or other suitable preservatives absorption promoters to enhance bioavailability fluorocarbons and or other conventional solubilizing or dispersing agents.

Should topical administration be desired it can be accomplished using any method commonly known to those skilled in the art and includes but is not limited to incorporation of the pharmaceutical composition into creams ointments or transdermal patches.

The pharmaceutical compositions may contain derivatives of the TPH1 inhibitors. For example the TPH1 inhibitors of the present invention can be derivatized by the formation of a reversible linkage with one or more suitable groups to yield pro drugs i.e. chemical derivatives that after absorption by the host are converted into the parent compound. Liberation of the parent compound may be by chemical hydrolysis or enzymatic attack. A derivative or pro drug can have enhanced permeability for the target organ. In the case of TPH1 inhibitors the target organ is the duodenum where 95 of peripheral serotonin is made. The prodrug has an enhanced permeability according to the present invention if after administration of the pro drug or derivative thereof to a living organism a higher amount of the compound reaches the target organ resulting in a higher level of effective therapeutic agent as compared to administration of the base compound without derivatization.

The amount of the therapeutic agents of the present invention that may be combined with the carrier materials to produce a pharmaceutical composition in a single dosage form may vary depending upon the patient being treated and the particular mode of administration. It should be understood that a specific dosage and treatment regimen for any particular patient will depend upon a variety of factors including the activity of the specific therapeutic agent employed the age body weight general health sex diet time of administration rate of excretion drug combination and the judgment of the treating physician as well as the severity of the particular condition being treated. Despite their variety accounting for these factors in order to select an appropriate dosage or treatment regimen is routinely done in the art and thus would require no more than routine experimentation.

The dosage of TPH1 inhibitor administered may also depend on whether the TPH1 inhibitor is being administered for the prevention or for the treatment of diabetes. For prevention preferred dose ranges include from about 5 mg kg day to about 250 mg kg day from about 5 mg kg day to about 100 mg kg day or from about 5 mg kg day to about 30 mg kg day with about 10 mg kg day being especially preferred.

For treatment preferred dose ranges include from about 10 mg kg day to about 250 mg kg day from about 10 mg kg day to about 50 mg kg day or from about 10 mg kg day to about 30 mg kg day with about 25 mg kg day being especially preferred.

Additional drugs which are normally administered to treat diabetes may also be administered with the therapeutic agents of this invention. Those additional drugs may be administered separately from the therapeutic agents that are used to lower blood serum or plasma serotonin levels as part of a multiple drug dosage regimen. Alternatively those additional drugs may be part of a single dosage form mixed together or otherwise combined with the therapeutic agents that are used to lower blood serum or plasma serotonin levels in a single pharmaceutical composition. If administered as part of a multiple drug dosage regime the additional drugs and the therapeutic agents used to lower blood serum or plasma serotonin levels may be administered simultaneously sequentially or within a selected specified period of time from one another. The amount of both the therapeutic agent that is used to lower blood serum or plasma serotonin levels and the additional drug in those compositions which comprise an additional drug that may be combined with the carrier materials to produce a single dosage form will vary depending upon the patient treated and the particular mode of administration as well as on the nature of the therapeutic agent that is used to lower blood serum or plasma serotonin levels and the nature of the additional drug.

In the present specification the invention has been described with reference to specific embodiments thereof. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereto without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

Mice were housed under 12 12 light dark cycle and chow and water were provided ad libitum. All animals were maintained according to NIH guidelines. The Htr2bflox flox Tph1flox flox and Villin cre mice have been described previously 1 . Alb cre and aP2 cre mice were obtained from the Jackson Laboratory. For glucose tolerance tests mice were fasted overnight before i.p. injection of 2 g kg body weight BW d glucose in phosphate buffered saline PBS or 1 g kg BW when mice were fed high fat diet. For pyruvate tolerance tests mice were fasted overnight injected i.p. with 2 g kg BW sodium pyruvate in PBS. Glycerol tolerance test 4 g kg BW was performed after 4 h fasting. For insulin tolerance tests mice were injected with 0.75 U kg of insulin after 4 h fasting. Glucose was measured by tail vein bleeds at the indicated intervals using an ACCU CHECK glucometer. Measurement of free fatty acids FFA and glycerol were performed in plasma using a serum triglycerides determination kit TR0100 Sigma and a NEFA HR 2 kit WAKO Diagnostics . Plasma concentration of serotonin and glucagon were determined by Glucagon ELISA Alpco 48 GLUHU E01 and Serotonin Research ELISA IBL America IB89540 . Hyperinsulinemic euglycemic clamp was performed in the University of Massachusetts Mouse Phenotyping Center University of Massachusetts Medical School. LP533401 was purchased from Dalton Pharma Services Toronto Ontario Canada dissolved in polyethylene glycol 400 and supplemented with 2.5 glucose and administered daily at the dose of 100 mg kg by gavage.

Histological analyses were performed on paraffin embedded epididymal fat. 5 m thick sections were stained with hematoxylin eosin and analyzed using a 20 objective. Quantification of the size of individual adipocytes was performed using ImageJ.

fructose 1 6 bisphosphatase FBPase and glucose 6 phosphatase G6Pase enzymatic activities assays were performed as described previously 2 3 . All reagents were obtained from Sigma.

In vitro lipolysis assay was performed as described 4 . Briefly epididymal fat pads were isolated and washed several times in Hank s Balanced Salt Solution HBSS Sigma . Tissue pieces 25 mg were incubated in Dulbecco s Modified Eagle s Medium DMEM medium Invitrogen containing 2 fatty acid free bovine serum albumin Sigma at 37 C. for 1 h. After this preincubation the fat explants were transferred into identical fresh medium containing serotonin Sigma or 10 M forskolin as a positive control and incubated further for the indicated time points at 37 C. Afterwards aliquots of medium were taken for measurements of FFAs and glycerol using available kits NEFA HR 2 WAKO Diagnostics serum triglycerides determination kit TR0100 Sigma and tissue was lysed with RIPA buffer for subsequent Western blot analysis or in TRIZOL Invitrogen for gene expression analysis.

Production of glucose was assessed in primary freshly isolated attached hepatocytes. Briefly cells were platted on 12 well plate format 200 000 cells per well . After isolation the cells were allowed to attach and recover for 6 h in Williams E medium containing 10 fetal calf serum. Then they were washed and starved for 1 h in Dulbecco s Modified Eagle s DMEM without glucose and phenol red but with 2 mM L glutamate and 0.5 BSA D5030 Sigma . Then the cells were switched to the same medium or the same medium containing 10 mM glycerol and stimulated with the indicated substances for 6 h. Glucose concentration was determined in the medium using Amplex Red Glucose Glucose Oxidase Assay Kit Invitrogen A22189 . Glucose production from glycerol was determined by subtracting glucose produced by the cells incubated without glycerol from this incubated with glycerol.

Western blotting was performed according to standard procedures. Frozen tissues or cells were homogenized and lysed with RIPA buffer. Membranes were blocked and then incubated overnight with primary antibody in TBST 5 BSA followed by incubation with appropriate HRP conjugated secondary antibody. Signals were visualized with ECL. The following primary antibodies were used antiphospho HSL s563 4139 antiphospho HSL s565 4137 antiphospho HSL s660 4126 and anti perilipin 3470 all from Cell Signaling anti HSL ab45422 anti ATGL ab85348 and anti glycerol kinase ab70029 all from Abcam anti actin A5441 and anti tubulin T6199 all from Sigma anti G6Pase Aviva Systems Biology ARP44224 P050 anti FBPase Abgent AP7385c antiphospho perilipin s522 Vala Sciences 4856 .

Total RNA was isolated using TRIZOL reagent with manufacturer s protocol Invitrogen and 2 g of total RNA was used to synthesize complementary DNA using random primers and M MLV reverse transcriptase Invitrogen . For quantitative PCR FastStart SYBR Green Master Roche was used in an MX3000P Real Time System thermocycler Stratagene . Primers sequence available upon request. qPCR values were normalized against actin or GAPDH expression. Primer sequences are available upon request.

Data are always shown as mean values s.e.m. Analyses of significant differences between means were performed using two tailed Student s t tests in case of comparison of 2 groups or analysis of variance followed by Tukey s post hoc test in case of multiple groups. n number of independent cultures or animals used. In all cases P

Tph1 expression and even more plasma serotonin levels were both significantly increased in mice fasted for only 2 h and remained so during a 48 h fasting period and B . This elevation of circulating serotonin levels occurred before the elevation of glucagon a hormone involved in the adaptation to fasting in vertebrates 7 . Fasting triggers mobilization of triglycerides in the form of glycerol and free fatty acids FFAs through lipolysis 8 9 . Thus the potential role of GDS in this process was determined through the study of mice lacking Tph1 only in the gut Tph1gut mice .

Unlike Tph1fl fl control littermates Tph1gut mice did not show a significant increase in circulating levels of FFAs and glycerol following a 4 h fasting period. While glycerol circulating levels did not increase even when fasting was prolonged up to 48 h FFAs levels did increase in Tph1gut mice during this extended fasting but not to the same extent as in Tph1fl fl mice and D . As a consequence of this failure to induce appropriate lipolysis Tph1gut mice fasted for 48 h displayed heavier fat pads larger adipocytes and lost significantly less weight than Tph1fl fl mice and . These results indicate that serotonin is a physiological regulator of lipolysis.

Whether serotonin could affect lipolysis in fed mice a situation in which this process is normally blocked 8 9 was also tested. This was done by implanting subcutaneously serotonin releasing pellets in WT mice. These pellets increased circulating levels of serotonin approximately two fold . This resulted in a significant increase in circulating levels of glycerol and FFAs and I . Lipolysis was further enhanced if WT mice implanted with these pellets were fasted for 4 h. Hence GDS is sufficient to induce lipolysis in fed or fasted mice.

To determine whether GDS promotes lipolysis by acting directly on adipocytes epididymal fat pads were treated with increasing amounts of serotonin. This treatment significantly increased release of both glycerol and FFAs and K . Of note there was no evidence of white fat into brown fat transformation in Tph1 gut mice 10 . In view of these results the identity of the signaling pathway used by GDS in adipocytes was investigated. Among the fourteen known serotonin receptors 1 Htr2b was by far the most highly expressed in mouse adipocytes . Furthermore its expression in white adipose tissue increased upon fasting . Hence mice lacking Htr2b in adipocytes only were generated Htr2bfat mice and their response to fasting was analyzed.

Fasting failed to increase glycerol circulating levels in Htr2bfat as it did in Htr2bfl fl mice . The increase in FFAs circulating levels observed upon fasting in Htr2bfat mice was also significantly weaker than in Htr2bfl fl mice . Consequently Htr2bfat mice had bigger fat pads larger adipocytes and lost less weight during a 48 h fasting than Htr2bfl fl littermates and . Moreover in cell culture serotonin failed to enhance release of glycerol and FFAs from Htr2b deficient fat pad explants. This was not due to the poor quality of explants because isoproterenol used as a positive control favored equally well FFAs and glycerol release from these explants and H .

To begin deciphering serotonin s molecular mode of action in adipocytes the expression accumulation and phosphorylation of key lipolytic enzymes 11 14 were analyzed. There was no alteration of gene expression in Tph1 gut and Htr2bfat mice and or in the accumulation of many enzymes involved in lipolysis. In contrast serotonin favored in an Htr2b dependent manner phosphorylation of hormone sensitive lipase HSL on serine residues 563 and 660 . Those phosphorylation events enhance HSL activity 15 16 . Taken together these experiments indicate that serotonin promotes lipolysis by signaling in adipocytes through Htr2b to increase phosphorylation and activity of HSL.

Glycerol can be converted to glucose by the liver during fasting 7 . Hence results presented above raised the prospect that GDS may promote gluconeogenesis simply through its ability to increase glycerol circulating levels or independently of its role on lipolysis. These possibilities were tested by measuring glucose production following glycerol injection 17 . In the conditions of this experiment glycerol did not increase circulating glucose levels in Tph1 gut mice to the same extent as in Tph1fl fl mice FIG. A . The same was true for pyruvate the initial substrate in liver gluconeogenesis . Conversely in WT mice implanted with serotonin pellets glycerol increased blood glucose levels to a higher level than in controls . These experiments indicated that serotonin is a physiological regulator of liver gluconeogenesis and that this function is not a mere consequence of its action on lipolysis. To further test if serotonin can induce gluconeogenesis from endogenous substrates Tph1gut mice were subjected to hyperinsulinemic euglycemic clamp. Hepatic glucose production was markedly reduced in Tph1gut mice . Consistent with the notion that serotonin adapts the organism to food deprivation glycogen synthesis rate was also increased in Tph1gut mice . That whole body glycolysis rate was unchanged ruled out that the observed effect on gluconeogenesis might be secondary to alterations of this process .

In cell culture serotonin stimulated conversion of glycerol to glucose in hepatocytes to the same extent as glucagon a positive control did . Since Htr2b was the most abundant serotonin receptor in the liver and its expression in this organ also increased upon fasting and whether Htr2b was mediating serotonin regulation of hepatic gluconeogenesis was tested. Glycerol and pyruvate did not increase circulating glucose levels in Htr2bliver mice to the same extent as in Htr2bfl fl littermate controls H and serotonin could not induce glucose production from glycerol when added to Htr2b hepatocytes . These data indicate that serotonin stimulates gluconeogenesis by signaling through Htr2b present in hepatocytes. That glycogen content was increased in livers of fasted Htr2bliver mice indicated that the regulation of glycogen synthesis by serotonin previously noted 18 occurs through Htr2b. Generation of ketone bodies in Htr2bliver was normal indicating that serotonin signaling does not affect this aspect of adaptation to fasting . Next the expression of key genes involved in gluconeogenesis from glycerol FBPase G6Pase glycerol kinase and aquaporin 9 7 was analyzed but no significant change in Htr2bliver mice was observed. In contrast when measured through classical bioassays 19 20 the enzymatic activity of the two rate limiting enzymes for this process FBPase and G6Pase were decreased 20 and 25 respectively in Htr2bliver mice and K . These results suggested that serotonin favors gluconeogenesis in part by enhancing activity of these enzymes.

FFAs promote insulin resistance 21 22 . Accordingly insulin sensitivity measured by insulin tolerance test and glucose infusion rates during hyperinsulinemic euglycemic clamp was significantly improved in Tph1gut and in Htr2bfat mice compared to controls and . The ability of serotonin to promote liver gluconeogenesis also influenced glucose homeostasis since both Tph1gut and Htr2bliver mice were significantly more tolerant to a glucose load than control littermates and . On the other hand GDS does not influence glucose stimulated insulin secretion at basal conditions 23 . These results implied that decreasing GDS synthesis should attenuate the severity of Type II diabetes.

Tph1gut mice were fed a high fat diet inducing obesity and Type II diabetes . Circulating glycerol and FFA levels were reduced in Tph1gut mice compared to control animals and D . Moreover gluconeogenesis was partially normalized in Tph1gut mice fed a high fat diet . These mice were also significantly more insulin sensitive and glucose tolerant than Tph1fl fl mice fed the same diet F .

A small molecule inhibitor of TPH1 and thus GDS synthesis LP533401 that does not cross efficiently the blood brain barrier 24 was tested for its effect on glucose intolerance. In WT mice fed a high fat diet LP533401 100 mg kg day resulted in an 80 reduction of circulating serotonin levels a decrease in glycerol and a normalization of FFAs circulating levels H and . Consequently insulin sensitivity was normalized while gluconeogenesis and glucose tolerance were significantly improved in LP533401 treated mice fed a high fat diet J and . When given to WT mice fed a normal diet LP533401 decreased glycerol and FFA levels decreased gluconeogenesis rate and improved glucose and insulin tolerance to the extent shown by Tph1gut mice and . LP533401 did not affect body weight gain .

