---

title: Processor TAP support for remote services
abstract: An apparatus can include a circuit board; a processor chip mounted to the circuit board that includes a Test Access Port (TAP); a controller mounted to the circuit board that includes a port operatively coupled to the Test Access Port (TAP) of the processor chip; and a network interface operatively coupled to the controller. Various other apparatuses, systems, methods, etc., are also disclosed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09274174&OS=09274174&RS=09274174
owner: Lenovo (Singapore) Pte. Ltd.
number: 09274174
owner_city: Singapore
owner_country: SG
publication_date: 20130829
---
Subject matter disclosed herein generally relates to technologies and techniques for support services.

Information handling devices include various components where one or more of the components may experience faults. Various technologies and techniques described herein may for example provide for monitoring fault detection or other support services.

An apparatus can include a circuit board a processor chip mounted to the circuit board that includes a Test Access Port TAP a controller mounted to the circuit board that includes a port operatively coupled to the Test Access Port TAP of the processor chip and a network interface operatively coupled to the controller. Various other apparatuses systems methods etc. are also disclosed.

The following description includes the best mode presently contemplated for practicing the described implementations. This description is not to be taken in a limiting sense but rather is made merely for the purpose of describing general principles of the implementations. The scope of the described implementations should be ascertained with reference to the issued claims.

The board differs from that of a board of a conventional computing device. For example a conventional computing device e.g. a phone a tablet a notebook computer a desktop computer etc. may include a conventional processor chip where the TAP architecture of that processor chip is a vestigial structure. To clarify when one considers the evolutionary process of a processor chip its TAP architecture may only serve a purpose e.g. testing prior to installation of the processor chip into a computing device e.g. installation of the processor chip onto a board such as a motherboard and once in the computing device the TAP architecture of the processor chip may serve no purpose e.g. no function . Accordingly the TAP architecture of a processor chip installed in a computing device may be referred to as a vestigial structure.

As an example a chip e.g. an integrated circuit chip can include a TAP architecture for purposes of testing the chip prior to installation of the chip into a computing device. Such testing traditionally involves use of a so called bed of nails tester. A traditional bed of nails tester is an electronic test fixture that has numerous pins inserted into holes that are aligned using tooling pins to make contact with test points on a chip and are also connected to a measuring unit by wires. A traditional bed of nails tester can include an array of small spring loaded pogo pins where each pogo pin makes contact with one node e.g. ball or pin of the chip under test. By pressing the chip under test down against the array reliable contact can be made with hundreds or even thousands of individual test points of the chip under test. The hold down force may be provided manually or by means of a vacuum thus pulling the chip under test downwards onto the array e.g. bed of nails . As an example another type of array may include silicon test nails e.g. a silicon test nail bed of nails tester .

In the example of the board is configured for use of the TAP architecture of the processor chip by the controller which may be operatively coupled to the interface for example for purposes of communication via a network. In such an example the board as installed in a computing device may be subject to remote analysis based at least in part on the TAP architecture. As an example the board may be a motherboard of a server e.g. in a server farm where the interface allows a server management service implemented by one or more other computing devices to communicate with the controller which may be a baseboard management controller BMC . In such an example the communication may be out of band in that it does not rely on a conventional operating system environment e.g. WINDOWS OS APPLE OS ANDROID OS etc. but rather on a real time operating system RTOS environment established by the controller .

As an example of a RTOS consider the NUCLEUS RTOS marketed by Mentor Graphics Wilsonville Oreg. which may also be referred to as an embedded OS. As an example the NUCLEUS RTOS which includes a real time kernel may be scaled down to a memory footprint as small as 13 KB for both code and data. As an example the NUCLEUS RTOS can operate in conjunction with a so called EDGE Suite of tools e.g. for simulation and testing profiling and JTAG related operations an integrated development environment IDE a compiler and a debugger.

As an example a RTOS may operate using a reduced instruction set computing architecture e.g. RISC architecture and firmware e.g. a RTOS RISC OS . As an example a controller may include an embedded RTOS.

As an example a RTOS may include code for a real time kernel storage and networking and connectivity as well as for example optionally one or more of a user interface USB connectivity a database graphics and multimedia.

In the example of where the controller provides for real time functionality e.g. via a RTOS as an example information concerning the processor of the processor chip may be gathered in real time. For sake of comparison an operating system such as the WINDOW 8 OS e.g. a full OS does not provide processor information in real time but rather with delay e.g. latency for example due in part to reliance application programming interface API calls e.g. a code heavy interface disposed between a user and a processor . As an example consider the various processor related WINAPI calls which may return values with latency of the order of milliseconds.

As an example the TAP architecture of the processor chip of the board may provide for a boundary scan method. For example the Joint Test Action Group JTAG developed a specification for boundary scan testing that was standardized in 1990 as the IEEE Std. 1149.1 1990. In 1994 a supplement that contains a description of the Boundary Scan Description Language BSDL was added that describes the boundary scan logic content of IEEE Standard 1149.1 compliant devices.

As shown in the example of the TAP of the processor chip can include a test clock interface TCK that provides for clock input for the TAP a test data in TDI interface that provides for transfers of serial test data into the processor chip a test data out interface TDO that provides for transfers of serial test data out of the processor chip a test mode select interface TMS that provides for a signal that may be used by one or more debugging tools and optionally a test reset interface TRST that provides for resetting the TAP logic .

Given the TAP of the TAP architecture a method such as a boundary scan method may be performed for example to test one or more interconnects e.g. optionally including one or more clusters of logic memories etc. . In the example of the boundary scan cells include individual cells for example where each of the individual cells is connected to a respective pin e.g. or ball of the processor chip e.g. noting that tri state or other pins may be associated with more than one cell . As an example each cell may optionally be individually programmed via the TAP architecture to drive a signal onto a pin to perform an individual trace with respect to the processor chip . As an example such a trace may be performed with respect to one or more components operably coupled to the processor chip e.g. one or more components mounted on a board to which the processor chip may also be mounted . In such an example the cell at the destination of the trace may be read for example to verify whether the trace properly connects the pin of the processor chip to another component e.g. a pin of the other component . In such an example if the trace is shorted to another signal or if the trace is open the correct signal value may not show up at the destination pin indicating a fault. For example consider the processor chip as including a pin operatively coupled to a pin of a fan controller that controls a fan to cool the processor where if a trace for the pin of the processor chip results in an incorrect signal one may conclude that an issue may exist with the fan controller e.g. a fault .

As another example a boundary scan method may include capturing the state of one or more pins at an instant in time with respect to time etc. For example the processor chip may include over one hundred pins where each pin has at least one associated boundary scan cell. A boundary scan method may capture values e.g. states for all of the pins at an instant in time which in turn may be analyzed to assess operation of the processor of the processor chip and or one or more components operatively coupled to the processor . As an example an analysis may be for one or more purposes such as for example debugging monitoring etc.

As an example the controller may call for a boundary scan using the TAP architecture of the processor chip . In such an example the controller may be instructed via one or more commands received via the interface for example via one or more networks where the one or more commands originate from a remote location e.g. a location remote from the board . As an example the controller may include logic that calls for a boundary scan for example based on a trigger where the trigger may be a time trigger an event trigger or other type of trigger. For example the controller may include a program that executes in a RTOS environment established by the controller to call for a boundary scan of the processor chip responsive to a trigger an analysis of a prior boundary scan etc.

As an example a boundary scan result may be provided in the form of a file a package etc. For example the controller may receive raw boundary scan values e.g. register values from the TAP architecture of the processor chip and format or otherwise package these values for storage transmission etc. e.g. according to a file specification a transmission protocol etc. .

As an example the controller may transmit a boundary scan result to the interface which may be operatively coupled to a network that transmits the boundary scan result to another device. As an example the controller may analyze a boundary scan result and determine based at least in part on the analysis whether to transmit the boundary scan result or information based thereon to the interface .

As an example the controller may include one or more addresses e.g. network addresses organized in a look up table . In such an example the controller may receive a boundary scan result from the TAP architecture of the processor chip and communicate the boundary scan result or information based thereon to at least one of the one or more addresses. For example a boundary scan result may indicate that an issue exists with the processor chip and or one or more components operatively coupled thereto. In such an example the controller may include logic to assess the issue as being of a certain type of issue. In turn the controller may associated that type of issue with at least one address for transmission of information to that address via the interface . As an example consider a power related issue associated with a lithium ion power cell e.g. power cell circuitry operatively coupled to the processor chip . In such an example the controller may include an address for power related issues where upon detection of the power related issue the controller transmits an issue notice to that address e.g. via the interface . As an example the address may be associated with a facilities manager of a server facility responsible for handling power related issues. As an example other types of issues may include temperature related issues memory related issues network related issues demand related issues software related issues e.g. including firmware related issues graphics related issues etc.

As an example the controller may call for transmitting values to at least some of the boundary scan cells of the processor chip for example to force data into the processor chip to set up a test e.g. test state or test condition s . In such an example relevant states may then be fed back to the controller for example for analysis and or for transmission of information based at least in part thereon by the controller . Such an approach may provide for analyzing various components of a computing device that includes the board for example without a need for manipulation of physical probes e.g. by hand .

As an example the controller may include a set of boundary scan test vectors stored in memory of the controller e.g. or otherwise accessible by the controller for example which may be accessed to perform particular tests. As an example the controller may receive via the interface one or more boundary scan test vectors for example to allow the controller to perform one or more associated tests. For example a manager at a remote location may wish to assess the board by having a particular test performed. In such an example the manager may use a computing device operatively coupled to a network to transmit a boundary scan test vector to the interface of the board and subsequent transmission to the controller . In turn the controller can transmit the received boundary scan test vector to the processor chip via the TAP and for example receive a boundary scan result e.g. or results responsive to the test via the TAP .

In such an example GPIO refers to a general purpose input output ball or pin for example which may be programmed e.g. provided a value . The foregoing the boundary scan result example shows six lines that reference two balls e.g. GPIO50 and GPIO51 of a chip each of which has three components in a boundary scan register BSR a control configuring the ball as input output what drive level pullups pulldowns etc. one type of output signal and one type of input signal. The foregoing example is merely provided to illustrate types of information that may be included in a boundary scan result.

In the example of the board is also configured for so called in band and out of band communication via a network and or via a network which may differ from the network include the network or be the network .

As shown in the example of the processor chip includes a processor e.g. including one or more cores that may execute an operating system for example to establish an operating system environment. In the example of the processor chip is operatively coupled to a memory controller host MCH and an input output controller housing ICH which may be for example components of a platform controller host PCH . The MCH is operatively coupled to system memory and the ICH is operatively coupled to a network interface controller NIC . As an example the components illustrated as a vertical stack may be considered host components that support the establishment of an operating system environment using the processor for example to execute applications e.g. and for in band communications .

In the example of the controller includes a RTOS and various interfaces. As an example the controller may include dedicated network support for example via an optional NIC . As an example the NIC and or the NIC may provide for out of band B communication with the controller e.g. via the network and or the network . As an example a controller may include an IP address for example that may differ from an IP address associated with host components on a board. In the example of the controller may also include interfaces to access components such as for example DRAM flash e.g. optionally SPI flash etc. The controller may include interfaces for communication with one or more of the MCH and the ICH for example via a PCI express interface PCI E a USB interface a low pin count interface LPC etc. The controller may include an interface configured in compliance with a SMB specification e.g. a SMBus specification . Such an interface may be configured for communications control data acquisition etc. with one or more components on a motherboard e.g. power related components temperature sensors fan sensors voltage sensors mechanical switches clock chips etc. .

As an example the controller may be optionally compliant with an Intelligent Platform Management Interface IPMI standard. The IPMI may be described for example as a message based hardware level interface specification. In a system an IPMI subsystem may operate independently of an OS e.g. host OS for example via out of band communication. The IPMI may be suitable for use by a system administrator for example to perform out of band management of a system e.g. monitoring operation etc. .

In the example of an OS environment may be established using for example a WINDOW OS e.g. a full OS an APPLE OS an ANDROID OS or other OS capable of establishing an environment for execution of applications e.g. word processing drawing email etc. . As an example the controller may establish an RTOS such as for example the NUCLEUS RTOS a RISC OS an embedded OS etc.

As an example the controller may be an ARC controller that can function as a baseboard management controller BMC e.g. an ARC4 processor with an I cache a D cache SRAM ROM etc. . As an example a BMC may include an expansion bus for example for an external flash PROM external SRAM and external SDRAM. A BMC may be part of a management microcontroller system MMS which for example operates using firmware stored in ROM e.g. optionally configurable via EEPROM strapping etc. .

As an example the controller may be an ARM controller that includes an ARM architecture for example consider a controller with an ARM926 32 bit RISC processor. As an example a controller with an ARM architecture may optionally include a Jazelle technology ARM Limited Cambridge UK enhanced 32 bit RISC processor with flexible size instruction and data caches tightly coupled memory TCM interfaces and a memory management unit MMU . In such an example separate instruction and data AMBA AHB interfaces suitable for multi layer AHB based systems may be provided. The Jazelle DBX Direct Bytecode eXecution technology for example may provide for execution of bytecode directly in the ARM architecture as a third execution state and instruction set alongside an existing mode.

As an example the controller may be configured to perform tasks associated with one or more sensors e.g. scanning monitoring etc. for example as part of an Intelligent Platform Management Interface IPMI management scheme. As an example a sensor may be or include hardware sensor e.g. for temperature etc. and or a software sensor e.g. for states events etc. . As an example a controller e.g. a BMC may provide for out of band management of a computing device e.g. an information handling system for example via a network interface.

As an example a controller may be configured to implement one or more server related services. For example a system may include a server management mode SMM interface managed by a BMC. In such an example the BMC may prioritize transfers occurring through the SMM interface. In such an example the BMC may act as a bridge between server management software SMS and IPMI management bus IPMB interfaces. Such interface registers e.g. two 1 byte wide registers may provide a mechanism for communications between the BMC and one or more host components.

As an example the NIC of the system of may be a LAN subsystem PCI bus network adapter configured to monitor network traffic for example at a so called Media Independent Interface. Upon detecting a particular packet frame e.g. in a magic packet a NIC may assert a wake up signal for example that powers up a device e.g. an information handling device such as a computer . While a magic packet is mentioned wake capabilities may occur for example responsive to receipt of a PCI Express WAKE signal a ping etc. For example reception of a network wake up packet e.g. magic or other detection of a link change of state etc. may result in waking. While LAN is mentioned as an example a signal e.g. a command a packet or other information may be received via cellular circuitry infra red circuitry or other type of communication circuitry.

As an example a NIC may include various features for example a network adapter may include a Gigabit Ethernet controller a RJ 45 LAN connector a CSMA CD protocol engine a LAN connect interface between a PCH and a LAN controller PCI bus power management ACPI technology support LAN wake capabilities ACPI technology support LAN subsystem software etc.

As an example a network adapter may be chip based with compact low power components with Gigabit Ethernet Media Access Control MAC and Physical Layer PHY port. Such a network adapter may use the PCI Express PCIe architecture for example for implementation as a LAN on a motherboard LOM configuration or for example embedded as part of a switch add on card a network appliance etc. e.g. consider a NIC based controller for a NIC of a motherboard .

As an example the board may include components such as those marketed by Intel Corporation Santa Clara Calif. . As an example one or more components may support the Intel Active Management Technology AMT as a hardware based technology for remotely managing and securing computing systems in out of band operational modes. Intel AMT is a set of remote management and security features designed into hardware that can for example allow a system administrator with AMT security privileges to access system information and perform specific remote operations on a system that includes the hardware. As an example such remote operations may include remote power up down e.g. via wake on LAN remote redirected boot e.g. via integrated device electronics redirect or IDE R console redirection e.g. via serial over LAN and other remote management and security features.

As an example a network adapter may include one or more features of an Intel Ethernet controller for example as described in a document entitled Intel 82583V GbE Controller Rev. 2.5 June 2012 which is incorporated by reference herein.

As an example a controller may store configuration information in protected memory see e.g. the DRAM the flash etc. . As an example the information may include the name s of appropriate whitelist management servers e.g. for a company etc. .

As an example the controller may be operable in part by using instructions stored in memory such as the DRAM and or the flash . As an example such instructions may provide for implementation of one or more methods that include monitoring assessing etc. operation of the processor chip by the controller at least in part by transmitting and or receiving signals via the TAP of the processor chip .

As an example the controller may implement one or more methods based at least in part on information received via an out of band communication path. For example a command may be received via the out of band communication path of the system that calls for monitoring assessing etc. the system by the controller based at least in part on transmitting and or receiving signals via the TAP of the processor chip . As an example the controller may initiate out of band or other communication based at least in part on transmitting and or receiving signals via the TAP of the processor chip . For example where a fault has been detected via a boundary scan method using boundary scan cells of the processor chip the controller may transmit a fault notice via the out of band path or optionally via the in band path of the system . For example where communication may be via an email application that executes in an OS environment of the system the controller may optionally invoke that email application to send an email e.g. a fault notice email etc. .

As an example the system may be part of a server. For example consider a RD630 ThinkServer system marketed by Lenovo US Inc. of Morrisville N.C. Such a system may include for example multiple sockets for processors see e.g. . As an example a processor may be an Intel processor e.g. XEON E5 2600 series XEON E3 1200v3 series e.g. Haswell architecture etc. . As an example a server may include an Intel chipset for example such as one or more of the Intel C6XX series chipset. As an example a server may include RAID hardware e.g. adapters . As an example a server may include hypervisor instructions for establishing a hypervisor environment for example to support virtual OS environments etc.

As shown in the example of the system includes a host a controller and an interface . In the example of the interface may direct communications to the host e.g. in band and or to the controller e.g. out of band . Also shown in the host includes a processor chip e.g. with one or more processors with a TAP for a TAP architecture of the processor chip and the controller includes an interface that may be for example directly or indirectly coupled to the TAP .

As an example a controller may be mounted on a board e.g. a motherboard as a separate chip e.g. a separate ARC chip ARM chip etc. or may be embedded in a chipset mounted on a board e.g. an embedded ARC chip an embedded ARM chip etc. . As an example a controller may be a BMC and may be mounted directly or indirectly on a motherboard e.g. indirectly as part of a chipset directly as a chip etc. . For example the controller of may itself be mounted on the board e.g. as a separate component or may be mounted on a chipset mounted on the board see also e.g. the controller of . In either configuration such a controller may be operatively coupled to a TAP of a processor chip that includes a TAP architecture for example where the processor chip and the controller are mounted to the same board.

As an example the controller may include an ARC processor e.g. an ARC based controller or an ARM processor e.g. an ARM based controller . As an example one or more technologies e.g. such as those of the Intel AMT and or other may be implemented using the controller .

In the example of the interface e.g. a network interface may be configured to identify out of band OOB network traffic e.g. traffic targeted to a controller etc. and route it to the controller . As an example controller destined traffic may be identified by one or more dedicated IANA registered port numbers.

In the example of a cellular network connector may be included alternatively or additionally to the interface . As an example a cellular network connector may include a connection to the interface . As an example an out of band process may optionally be initiated via a communication received via a cellular network connector. For example a cellular network connector may sniff packets for particular identifying information e.g. consider a 3G 4G etc. cellular network sniffer .

As an example an apparatus can include a circuit board a processor chip mounted to the circuit board that includes a Test Access Port TAP a controller mounted to the circuit board that includes a port e.g. interface operatively coupled to the Test Access Port TAP of the processor chip and a network interface operatively coupled to the controller. As an example a port of a controller may be operatively coupled to a TAP of a processor chip via wires. As an example a processor chip can include at least one processor.

As an example where a board e.g. a circuit board may include multiple processor chips each with a respective TAP a controller may be configured to selectively transmit and or receive information from one or more of the TAPs e.g. via multiple lines multiplexer circuitry etc. see e.g. . As an example a controller may be configured to selectively monitor test halt etc. one or more processors for example via respective TAPs. As an example where a processor chip includes a processor with multiple cores a controller may optionally individually monitor test halt etc. each of the multiple cores. As an example where a processor chip includes on board memory a controller may optionally monitor test halt use of etc. such on board memory e.g. optionally on a selective basis .

As an example a TAP can include a Test Data Input TDI connector a Test Data Output TDO connector a Test Clock TCK connector and a Test Mode Select TMS connector. As an example a TAP architecture can include a TAP state machine e.g. TAP logic . In such an example a controller may selectively use the TAP state machine for example to monitor test halt etc. one or more operations associated with a chip that includes the TAP state machine.

As an example a controller may access memory that stores instructions for a real time operating system RTOS . For example such memory may store application instructions for execution on a RTOS environment established by the controller using the RTOS where for example the application instructions can call for transmission of signals by the controller to the Test Access Port TAP of a processor chip e.g. from a port or interface of the controller to the TAP of the processor chip .

As an example a controller may be or include a baseboard management controller BMC . As an example a network interface may be operatively coupled to a controller configured for out of band communication.

As an example an apparatus may include two or more processor chips where each processor chip includes its own Test Access Port TAP and where a port e.g. or interface of a controller may be selectively operatively couplable to the Test Access Port TAP of each of the processor chips.

As an example an apparatus can include a host chip where for example a controller is embedded on the host chip. As an example a host chip may be a memory controller hub or host chip MCH an I O controller hub or host chip ICH a platform controller hub or host chip PCH etc. As an example a controller may be separate from a host chip for example consider an Aspeed AST1XXX or 2XXX series controller marketed by Aspeed Technology Inc. Hsinchu T W . In such an example wires may operatively couple the controller to a TAP of a processor chip associated with or part of the host chip e.g. for a processor that may establish an OS host environment for hosting of applications .

As an example a method may include halting operation of a processor of a processor chip based at least in part on analyzing one or more signals from a TAP of a processor chip.

As an example a method may include communicating an operational status indicator based at least in part on an operational status determined by analysis of at least one signal from a TAP of a processor chip e.g. as received by a controller . In such an example communication may be via a network interface operatively coupled to a circuit board on which the processor chip and a controller reside.

As an example a method can include receiving a communication from a network interface operatively coupled to a circuit board and transmitting at least one signal based at least in part on the communication from a controller mounted on the circuit board to a TAP of a processor chip mounted on the circuit board. In such an example the communication received via the network interface may be an out of band communication communicated during execution of an operating system environment established at least in part by a processor of the processor chip.

As an example a method can include transmitting at least one signal from a port e.g. an interface on a controller on a circuit board to a TAP on a processor chip for example where such a transmission includes transmitting a signal to perform a boundary scan of the processor chip e.g. using a TAP architecture of the processor chip .

As an example the transmission block of the method may transmit an issue notice to a responsible party for example based on an address for that party. As an example such a notice may be transmitted via one or more networks e.g. wired and or wireless . As an example a notice may be transmitted to an email address or other address e.g. an Internet address .

As an example the system can include wires that electrically connect e.g. directly or indirectly the port of the controller e.g. a controller chip and the Test Access Port TAP of the processor chip . As an example the system may be a server system see e.g. . For example the board may be part of a server system e.g. a motherboard of a server . As an example the processor chip may include multiple cores e.g. for handling information etc. . As an example the system may be an information handling system.

As an example the controller may be a baseboard management controller BMC that may include interfaces that can interface with components of a server system. For example the controller may interface directly or indirectly with a RAID adapter equipment operatively coupled via a RAID adapter etc. As an example the controller may process information via the TAP and via one or more other interfaces see e.g. the interfaces of the controller of . As an example a loop e.g. optionally a feedback loop may be established for coordinated monitoring control management etc. of one or more functions of a system e.g. consider a server system . In such an example a loop may include input and or output via a network interface e.g. optionally via an out of band path .

In the server installation includes server racks with servers installed therein. As an example at least one of the server racks may include a server that includes the system e.g. at least a board such as the board .

In the method includes a monitor block for monitoring one or more processor chips via TAP a detection block for detecting at least one issue based at least in part on the monitoring and a remedial action block for calling for and or taking remedial action for example in an effort to resolve a detected issue.

As an example the server installation may include a management system that is configured to monitor servers via communication with baseboard management controllers in each of the servers where each of the baseboard management controllers includes a port for communication with a TAP of a processor chip. In such an example the management system can monitor operations of each of the servers via communication with their respective baseboard management controllers e.g. optionally out of band communication . For example such a management system may call for monitoring by performing period boundary scans via TAP architecture of each of the processor chips. As an example where an issue is detected based on such monitoring the management system may call for remedial action in an effort to resolve the detected issue. For example remedial action may include calling for a test via a TAP of a processor chip calling for another type of test calling for a repair person to physically inspect and service a server having the detected issue etc. In the example of a repair person is shown with equipment which may be for example test equipment for testing a server a replacement component for a server etc.

As an example a detected issue may be amenable to resolution remotely. For example where an issue is related to BIOS a remote BIOS update may be performed for example using an out of band communication path. While BIOS is mentioned as an example issues with other types of firmware software etc. may be amenable to remote resolution.

As an example a system such as the system may provide for detection of one or more critical hardware failure modes. For example via TAP based controller interaction a method may provide for one or more of detection in depth debugging and optionally image reloading or other remedial action. Such an approach may optionally be supplemented with a dump for example should a failure occur e.g. consider analysis of generated system dump files that may capture a system state after a failure has occurred .

As an example via a TAP of a processor chip a controller may be configured to monitor critical system memory or other resources that if accessed in a certain manner may lead to a system crash. When such an access occurs the controller may halt the system just before the crash which may thereby allow for more detailed capture of a failure event.

As an example a controller may be used in conjunction with a remote debug station such that a developer can step through code and debug a failure with a system e.g. optionally operating in a customer s unique environment .

As shown in the example of the server can include a riser card assembly one or more hot swap power supplies one or more PCI express card a first set of DIMMs an optical drive a right side rack handle a hard disk drive area a diagnostic module a VGA DB connector a USB port a left side rack handle a front panel board a backplane for hard disk drives system fans a second set of DIMMs heat sinks e.g. with processors beneath a circuit board e.g. or system board a circuit board battery one or more other PCI express cards and another riser card assembly .

As to the circuit board it may be suitable for use as the circuit board of the server . As shown in the example of the circuit board can include a front panel connector an internal USB connector a diagnostic module connector a front VGA connector a SATA connector a platform controller hub PCH a circuit board battery an internal USB Type A port a controller another internal USB Type A port a TPM Trusted Platform Module connector a controller connector module a riser card assembly slot another riser card assembly slot a power supply connector another power supply connector a backplane power connector another backplane power connector memory slots and system fan connectors and and processor sockets and where each of the processor sockets and may seat a respective processor chip e.g. with one or more processors or processing cores . For example shows a perspective view of the processor socket and a processor chip noting that the processor socket may seat a processor chip . As an example each of the processor chips and may include a TAP architecture and a TAP where each of the processor sockets and can mount to the circuit board for example to operatively couple a respective processor chip seated thereon e.g. and to circuits of the circuit board . In such an example each of the processor sockets and can include connectors that connect to a TAP of a respective processor chip seated thereon. Accordingly each of the processor sockets and may include a TAP connector for example that can expose a TAP of a respective processor chip.

As to the controller connector module of the circuit board it may provide for remote keyboard video and mouse KVM access and control through the LAN or Internet in conjunction with the controller which may be a baseboard management controller BMC . As an example the controller connector module may provide for location independent remote access to one or more circuits of the circuit board for example to respond to incidents to undertake maintenance etc.

As an example the controller connector module may include features such as an embedded web server a soft keyboard via KVM remote KVM virtual media redirection a dedicated NIC security e.g. SSL SSH KVM encryption authentication using LDAP or RADIUS email alert etc.

In the example circuit board includes wires and that operatively couple the controller to a TAP associated with the processor socket and to a TAP associated with the processor socket e.g. via one or more ports of the controller . In such an example the controller which may be a baseboard management controller BMC may transmit information to a TAP receive information from a TAP etc. As an example the controller connector module may include a network interface operatively coupled to the controller e.g. a controller chip for remote monitoring of the server at least in part via communication between a port of the controller and a Test Access Port TAP of a processor chip e.g. or TAPs of multiple processor chips . As an example the controller may be accessible via an out of band OOB communication path and or via an in band communication path. As an example the controller connector module may provide for out of band communication with the controller for example for communicating commands information etc. which may optionally include commands information etc. associated with a TAP architecture e.g. for interaction with a processor chip via a TAP .

As an example a processor socket may include a connector that may be operatively coupled to a TAP of a processor chip that may be seated in the processor socket. In such an example the processor socket may include contacts that can contact a TAP of a processor chip and conductors e.g. strips wires etc. that provide for electrical conduction between the contacts and the connector. As an example conductors may be provided e.g. a cable strips wires etc. to bridge an interface of a controller and a connector of a processor socket for purposes of utilizing a TAP architecture of a processor chip seated in the processor socket. As an example the circuit board may be a motherboard for a server. As an example a motherboard may include conductors e.g. strips wires etc. that provide for direct or indirect electrical connection between an interface of a controller and a TAP of a processor chip for example where the processor chip may be operatively coupled to the motherboard via a processor socket and where the processor socket may include circuitry that can operatively couple to the TAP of the processor chip.

As an example the management unit may include test modules e.g. instructions stored in a computer readable medium that are executable by a management service of the management unit to call for performing a test or tests on a system. In such an example a test may call for transmission and or receipt of information by a controller e.g. a baseboard management controller with respect to a TAP of a processor chip of a system to be tested. As an example the management unit may communicate with a system or systems using out of band communication.

As an example a system can include a circuit board at least one memory chip mounted to the circuit board a processor chip mounted to the circuit board where the processor chip includes a Test Access Port TAP a controller mounted to the circuit board where the controller includes a port operatively coupled to the Test Access Port TAP and a network interface operatively coupled to the controller for remote monitoring of the system at least in part via communication between the port of the controller and the Test Access Port TAP of the processor chip. In such an example the system can include wires that electrically connect the port of the controller and the Test Access Port TAP of the processor chip. As an example a system may be a server. As an example a system may include a processor chip that includes a processor that includes at least one core.

As an example a system may include a hypervisor for example executable to manage one or more operating systems. With respect to a hypervisor a hypervisor may be or include features of the XEN hypervisor XENSOURCE LLC LTD Palo Alto Calif. . In a XEN system the XEN hypervisor is typically the lowest and most privileged layer. Above this layer one or more guest operating systems can be supported which the hypervisor schedules across the one or more physical CPUs. In XEN terminology the first guest operating system is referred to as domain 0 dom0 . In a conventional XEN system the dom0 OS is booted automatically when the hypervisor boots and given special management privileges and direct access to all physical hardware by default.

As described herein various acts steps etc. can be implemented as instructions stored in one or more computer readable storage media. For example one or more computer readable storage media can include computer executable e.g. processor executable instructions to instruct a device. A computer readable medium may be a computer readable medium that is not a carrier wave.

The term circuit or circuitry is used in the summary description and or claims. As is well known in the art the term circuitry includes all levels of available integration e.g. from discrete logic circuits to the highest level of circuit integration such as VLSI and includes programmable logic components programmed to perform the functions of an embodiment as well as general purpose or special purpose processors programmed with instructions to perform those functions.

While various examples circuits or circuitry have been discussed depicts a block diagram of an illustrative computer system . The system may be a desktop computer system such as one of the ThinkCentre or ThinkPad series of personal computers sold by Lenovo US Inc. of Morrisville N.C. or a workstation computer such as the ThinkStation which are sold by Lenovo US Inc. of Morrisville N.C. however as apparent from the description herein a satellite a base a server or other machine may include other features or only some of the features of the system .

As shown in the system includes a so called chipset . A chipset refers to a group of integrated circuits or chips that are designed to work together. Chipsets are usually marketed as a single product e.g. consider chipsets marketed under the brands Intel AMD etc. .

In the example of the chipset has a particular architecture which may vary to some extent depending on brand or manufacturer. The architecture of the chipset includes a core and memory control group and an I O controller hub that exchange information e.g. data signals commands etc. via for example a direct management interface or direct media interface DMI or a link controller . In the example of the DMI is a chip to chip interface sometimes referred to as being a link between a northbridge and a southbridge .

The core and memory control group include one or more processors e.g. single core or multi core and a memory controller hub that exchange information via a front side bus FSB . As described herein various components of the core and memory control group may be integrated onto a single processor die for example to make a chip that supplants the conventional northbridge style architecture.

The memory controller hub interfaces with memory . For example the memory controller hub may provide support for DDR SDRAM memory e.g. DDR DDR2 DDR3 etc. . In general the memory is a type of random access memory RAM . It is often referred to as system memory .

The memory controller hub further includes a low voltage differential signaling interface LVDS . The LVDS may be a so called LVDS Display Interface LDI for support of a display device e.g. a CRT a flat panel a projector etc. . A block includes some examples of technologies that may be supported via the LVDS interface e.g. serial digital video HDMI DVI display port . The memory controller hub also includes one or more PCI express interfaces PCI E for example for support of discrete graphics . Discrete graphics using a PCI E interface has become an alternative approach to an accelerated graphics port AGP . For example the memory controller hub may include a 16 lane 16 PCI E port for an external PCI E based graphics card. A system may include AGP or PCI E for support of graphics.

The I O hub controller includes a variety of interfaces. The example of includes a SATA interface one or more PCI E interfaces optionally one or more legacy PCI interfaces one or more USB interfaces a LAN interface more generally a network interface a general purpose I O interface GPIO a low pin count LPC interface a power management interface a clock generator interface an audio interface e.g. for speakers a total cost of operation TCO interface a system management bus interface e.g. a multi master serial computer bus interface and a serial peripheral flash memory controller interface SPI Flash which in the example of includes BIOS and boot code . With respect to network connections the I O hub controller may include integrated gigabit Ethernet controller lines multiplexed with a PCI E interface port. Other network features may operate independent of a PCI E interface.

The interfaces of the I O hub controller provide for communication with various devices networks etc. For example the SATA interface provides for reading writing or reading and writing information on one or more drives such as HDDs SDDs or a combination thereof. The I O hub controller may also include an advanced host controller interface AHCI to support one or more drives . The PCI E interface allows for wireless connections to devices networks etc. The USB interface provides for input devices such as keyboards KB mice and various other devices e.g. cameras phones storage media players etc. .

In the example of the LPC interface provides for use of one or more ASICs a trusted platform module TPM a super I O a firmware hub BIOS support as well as various types of memory such as ROM Flash and non volatile RAM NVRAM . With respect to the TPM this module may be in the form of a chip that can be used to authenticate software and hardware devices. For example a TPM may be capable of performing platform authentication and may be used to verify that a system or component seeking access is the expected system or component.

The system upon power on may be configured to execute boot code for the BIOS as stored within the SPI Flash and thereafter processes data under the control of one or more operating systems and application software e.g. stored in system memory .

As an example the system may include circuitry for communication via a cellular network a satellite network or other network. As an example the system may include battery management circuitry for example smart battery circuitry suitable for managing one or more lithium ion batteries.

Although various examples of methods devices systems etc. have been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described. Rather the specific features and acts are disclosed as examples of forms of implementing the claimed methods devices systems etc.

