---

title: Laser ablation electrospray ionization (LAESI) for atmospheric pressure, in vivo, and imaging mass spectrometry
abstract: The field of the invention is atmospheric pressure mass spectrometry (MS), and more specifically a process and apparatus which combine infrared laser ablation with electrospray ionization (ESI).
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08809774&OS=08809774&RS=08809774
owner: The George Washington University
number: 08809774
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130312
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 271 435 filed on Oct. 12 2011 which is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 176 324 filed on Jul. 18 2008 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 067 730 which claims priority to U.S. provisional application Ser. No. 60 951 186 filed on Jul. 20 2007 each of the foregoing applications are hereby incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.

Portions of this invention were made with United States government support under Grant Nos. 0415521 and 0719232 awarded by the National Science Foundation and Grant No. DEFG02 01ER15129 awarded by the Department of Energy. The government has certain rights in the invention.

The field of the invention is atmospheric pressure mass spectrometry MS and more specifically a process and apparatus which combine infrared laser ablation with electrospray ionization ESI .

Mass spectrometry MS plays a major role in chemical biological and geological research. Proteomic glycomic lipidomic and metabolomic studies would be impossible without modern mass spectrometry. Owing to their high sensitivity and exceptional specificity mass spectrometric methods also appear to be ideal tools for in vivo analysis in the life sciences. In many of these applications however the samples must be preserved in their native environment with preferably no or minimal interference from the analysis. For most of the traditional ion sources applied in the biomedical field such as matrix assisted laser desorption ionization MALDI or electrospray ionization ESI these limitations present serious obstacles. For example MALDI with ultraviolet laser excitation requires the introduction of an external often denaturing matrix whereas ESI calls for liquid samples with moderate ionic conductivity. As living organisms are typically disrupted by such preparations there is a great interest in developing direct sampling and ambient ionization sources for in vivo studies.

Rapid advances in recent years have provided a growing number of ambient ion sources. For example atmospheric pressure infrared MALDI AP IR MALDI capable of producing ions from small and moderate size molecules up to 3 000 Da shows promise for metabolic imaging. Small molecules have been analyzed by other methods including direct analysis in real time DART desorption electrospray ionization DESI desorption atmospheric pressure chemical ionization DAPCI and matrix assisted laser desorption electrospray ionization MALDESI . Medium to large biomolecules have also been detected by DESI and on dehydrated samples by electrospray laser desorption ionization ELDI . Imaging capabilities were demonstrated for DESI on a rat brain tissue section with about 400 m lateral resolution. Due to the need for sample pretreatment sensitivity to surface properties DESI DART DAPCI and AP IR MALDI and external matrix ELDI and MALDESI in vivo capabilities are very limited for these techniques.

An awkward feature of mass spectrometry MS is the requirement of a vacuum system. Analysis under ambient conditions would simplify and expand the utility of mass spectrometry.

Takats et al. report a method of desorption electrospray ionization DESI whereby an aqueous spray of electrosprayed charged droplets and ions of solvent are directed at an analyte which has been deposited on an insulating surface. The microdroplets from the aqueous spray produce ions from the surface whereby the desorbed ions are directed into a mass spectrometer for analysis. A broad spectrum of analytes was examined including amino acids drugs peptides proteins and chemical warfare agents.

Cody et al. report a method they called DART wherein helium or nitrogen gas is sent through a multi chambered tube wherein the gas is i subjected to an electrical potential ii ions are removed from the gas stream iii the gas flow is heated and then iv the gas is directed at a mass spectrometer ion collection opening. They report that subjecting hundreds of different chemicals to this technique provided a very sensitive method for detecting chemicals including chemical warfare agents and their signatures pharmaceuticals metabolites peptides oligosaccharides synthetic organics and organometallics drugs explosives and toxic chemicals. Further they report that these chemicals were detected on a wide variety of substrates including concrete asphalt skin currency airline boarding passes business cards fruit vegetables spices beverages bodily fluids plastics plant leaves glassware and clothing.

Shiea et al. report the development of a method called electrospray assisted laser desorption ionization ELDI . They report that DESI MS is limited in that it cannot analyze complex mixtures and there is very little control over the size and definition of the surface area affected by the ESI plume for the desorption of the analyte. They also acknowledge the problem that direct laser desorption is limited to low molecular weight compounds and that lasers desorb more neutrals than ions. Accordingly they report a combination of ESI and ultraviolet laser desorption LD wherein i a sample is irradiated with a pulsed nitrogen laser beam to generate laser desorbed material ii this material is then ionized by subjecting it to an electro spray plume and iii the ions sent to a mass spectrometer. This technique is reported to provide sensitivity towards protein detection without sample prep or the use of a matrix. However their experimental setup shows a stainless steel sample plate upon which aqueous solution of protein was spread and the sample dried. The method was ultimately presented for the analysis of solid samples.

Atmospheric pressure laser desorption techniques such as atmospheric pressure matrix assisted laser desorption ionization AP MALDI or electrospray assisted laser desorption ionization ELDI usually require the pretreatment of the sample with a suitable matrix.

Further it has been difficult previously to study the spatial distribution of chemicals at atmospheric pressure using MS.

Lastly other matrixless methods do not achieve ESI like ionization. Thus with other matrixless methods e.g. DIOS large molecules cannot be detected as multiply charged species.

The following documents may provide additional context where necessary for fuller understanding of the claimed invention and are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety for references purposes and for determining the level of ordinary skill in the art U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 949 741 and 7 112 785 by Cody et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 965 884 by Laiko et al. publication on DESI Mass Spectrometry Sampling Under Ambient Conditions with Desorption Electrospray Ionization Z. Takats J. M. Wiseman B. Gologan and R. G. Cooks Science 2004 306 471 473 publication on ELDI Direct Protein Detection from Biological Media through Electrospray Assisted Laser Desorption Ionization Mass Spectrometry M. Z. Huang H. J. Hsu J. Y. Lee J. Jeng J. Shiea J. Proteome Res. 2006 5 1107 1116 and publication on DART Versatile New Ion Source for the Analysis of Materials in Open Air under Ambient Conditions R. B. Cody J. A. Laramee and D. Durst Anal. Chem. 2005 77 2297 2302.

Mass spectrometric analysis of biomolecules under ambient conditions promises to enable the in vivo investigation of diverse biochemical changes in organisms with high specificity. Here we report on a novel combination of infrared laser ablation with electrospray ionization LAESI as an ambient ion source for mass spectrometry. As a result of the interactions between the ablation plume and the spray LAESI accomplishes electrospray like ionization. Without any sample preparation or pretreatment this technique was capable of detecting a variety of molecular classes and size ranges up to 66 kDa with a detection limit of about 100 fmol sample about 0.1 fmol ablated spot and quantitation capability with a four decade dynamic range. We demonstrated the utility of LAESI in a broad variety of applications ranging from plant biology to clinical analysis. Proteins lipids and metabolites were identified and the pharmacokinetics of antihistamine excretion was followed via the direct analysis of bodily fluids urine blood and serum . We also performed in vivo spatial profiling on leaf stem and root of metabolites in a French marigold Tagetes patula seedling.

In one preferred embodiment a process and apparatus which combine infrared laser ablation with electrospray ionization ESI . This allows a sample to be directly analyzed 1 without special preparation and 2 under ambient conditions. The samples which can be analyzed using this process include pharmaceuticals dyes explosives narcotics polymers tissue samples and biomolecules as large as albumin BSA 66 kDa .

In general terms the invention starts with using a focused IR laser beam to irradiate a sample thus ablating a plume of ions and particulates. This plume is then intercepted with charged electrospray droplets. From the interaction of the laser ablation plume and the electrospray droplets gas phase ions are produced that are detected by a mass spectrometer is performed at atmospheric pressure.

Another preferred embodiment provides an ambient ionization process which comprises i irradiating a sample with an infrared laser to ablate the sample ii intercepting this ablation plume with an electrospray to form gas phase ions and iii analyzing the produced ions using mass spectrometry. In this embodiment the ample is optionally directly analyzed without any chemical preparation and under ambient conditions and or the sample is optionally selected from the group consisting of pharmaceuticals metabolites dyes explosives narcotics polymers tissue samples and large biomolecules chemical warfare agents and their signatures peptides oligosaccharides proteins synthetic organics drugs explosives and toxic chemicals.

In another preferred embodiment a LAESI MS device is provided comprising i a pulsed infrared laser for emitting energy at a sample ii an electrospray apparatus for producing a spray of charged droplets and iii a mass spectrometer having an ion transfer inlet for capturing the produced ions. In this embodiment the sample is optionally directly analyzed without special preparation and under ambient conditions and or the sample is selected from the group consisting of pharmaceuticals metabolites dyes explosives narcotics polymers tissue samples and biomolecules as large as albumin BSA 66 kDA chemical warfare agents and their signatures peptides oligosaccharides proteins synthetic organics drugs explosives and toxic chemicals.

A preferred embodiment provides a method of directly detecting the components of a sample comprising subjecting a sample to infrared LAESI mass spectrometry wherein the sample is selected from the group consisting of pharmaceuticals dyes explosives narcotics polymers tissue samples and biomolecules and wherein the LAESI MS is performed using a LAESI MS device directly on a sample wherein the sample does not require conventional MS pretreatment and is performed at atmospheric pressure.

Referring now to the figures whereas atmospheric pressure laser desorption techniques such as atmospheric pressure matrix assisted laser desorption ionization AP MALDI or electrospray assisted laser desorption ionization ELDI usually require the pretreatment of the sample with a suitable matrix the present method which does not involve pretreatment of samples at all. As shown herein the samples can successfully be analyzed directly or can be presented on surfaces such as glass paper or plastic or substrates described supra etc. This offers convenience and yields high throughput during the analysis.

The LAESI provided herein allows one to study the spatial distribution of chemicals. In an example a French marigold plant in vivo from the leaf through the stem to the root was able to be chemically profiled.

The LAESI provided herein achieves ESI like ionization. Thus large molecules can be detected as multiply charged species. This is shown for the case of bovine serum albumin which was directly ionized from glass substrate.

Also provided herein is the use of combined infrared laser ablation and electrospray ionization ESI as a novel ion source for mass spectrometry under ambient conditions. Demonstrated herein is the use of LAESI for the direct analysis of a variety of samples from diverse surfaces for small organic molecules e.g. organic dyes drug molecules explosives narcotics and other chemicals of interest as described herein previously. Furthermore the utility of the method for the direct analysis of synthetic polymers and biomolecules from biological matrixes including tissues was shown. In vivo analysis of plant tissue was demonstrated. We confirmed that our technique enabled one to obtain intact molecular ions of proteins as large as 66 kDa Bovine serum albumin directly from biological samples without the need of sample preparation or other chemical pretreatment. One of the most significant applications of this ion source is in molecular imaging at atmospheric pressure.

Immediate uses are in biomedical analysis including in vivo studies clinical analysis chemical and biochemical imaging drug discovery and other pharmaceutical applications environmental monitoring forensic analysis and homeland security.

The current version of LAESI achieves ionization from samples with a considerable absorption at about 3 m wavelength. Thus samples with significant water content are best suited for the technology. This limitation however can be mitigated by using lasers of different wavelengths and or sprays of different composition.

Laser ablation electrospray ionization. The electrospray system was identical to the one described in our previous study. Briefly 50 methanol solution containing 0.1 v v acetic was fed through a tapered tip metal emitter 100 m i.d. and 320 m o.d. New Objective Woburn Mass. using a low noise syringe pump Physio 22 Harvard Apparatus Holliston Mass. . Stable high voltage was directly applied to the emitter by a regulated power supply PS350 Stanford Research Systems Inc. Sunnyvale Calif. . A flat polished stainless steel plate counter electrode 38.1 mm 38.1 mm 0.6 mm with a 6.0 mm diameter opening in the center was placed perpendicular to the axis of the emitter at a distance of 10 mm from the tip. This counter electrode was used to monitor the spray current with a digital oscilloscope WaveSurfer 452 LeCroy Chestnut Ridge N.Y. . The temporal behavior of the spray current was analyzed to determine the established spraying mode. The flow rate and the spray voltage were adjusted to establish the cone jet regime. The electrohydrodynamic behavior of the Taylor cone and the plume of ablated particulates were followed by a fast digital camera QICAM QImaging Burnaby BC Canada equipped with a long distance microscope KC Infinity Photo Optical Co. Boulder Colo. . The cone and the generated droplets were back illuminated with a about 10 ns flash source based on fluorescence from a laser dye solution Coumarin 540A Exciton Dayton Ohio excited by a nitrogen laser VSL 337 Newport Corp. Irvine Calif. .

The samples were mounted on microscope slides positioned 10 to 30 mm below the spray axis and 3 to 5 mm ahead of the emitter tip and ablated at a 90 degree incidence angle using an Er YAG laser Bioscope Bioptic Lasersysteme AG Berlin Germany at a wavelength of 2940 nm. The Q switched laser source with a pulse length of 60 MPa recoil stress buildup in the target.

The material expelled by the recoil stress in the laser ablation plume was intercepted by the electrospray plume operating in cone jet mode and the generated ions were mass analyzed with a mass spectrometer JMST100LC AccuTOF JEOL Ltd. Peabody Mass. . The data acquisition rate was set to 1 s spectrum. The sampling cone of the mass spectrometer was in line with the spray axis. The ion optics settings were optimized for the analyte of interest and were left unchanged during consecutive experiments. The LAESI system was shielded by a Faraday cage and a plastic enclosure to minimize the interference of electromagnetic fields and air currents respectively. The enclosure also provided protection from the health hazards of the fine particulates generated in the laser ablation process.

To expose fresh areas during data acquisition some of the samples were raster scanned by moving them in the X Z plane in front of the laser beam using an X Y Z translation stage. Unless otherwise mentioned the presented mass spectra were averaged over 5 seconds 25 laser shots . In general single laser shots also gave sufficient signal to noise ratio in the mass spectra. The LAESI experiments were followed by microscope inspection and imaging of the ablation spots on the targets.

French marigold plant. French marigold seeds were obtained from Fischer Scientific. Seedlings were grown in artificial medium in a germination chamber model S79054 Fischer Scientific . Two seedlings were removed at 2 and 4 weeks of age and were subjected to LAESI analysis without any chemical pretreatment. The roots of the plants were kept moist to avoid wilting during the studies. Following the experiment the plants were transplanted into soil and their growth was monitored for up to an additional four weeks to confirm viability.

Laser ablation of water rich targets in the mid infrared region 2.94 m has been utilized in medical laser surgery and analytical AP IR MALDI applications. In these experiments laser energy is coupled into the target through the strong absorption band due to the OH vibrations. Ablation experiments on water liver and skin revealed two partially overlapping phases. During the first about 1 s a dense plume develops as a consequence of surface evaporation and more importantly phase explosion in the target. This plume contains ions neutrals and some particulate matter and exhibits a shock front at the plume air interface. Its expansion is slowed by the pressure of the background gas air thus it eventually comes to a halt and collapses back onto the target. The second phase is induced by the recoil pressure in the target and results in the ejection of mostly particulate matter. Depending on the laser fluence and target properties this phase lasts for up to about 300 s. Ultraviolet UV laser desorption studies on strongly absorbing targets in vacuum environment indicated that the degree of ionization in the plume was between 10and 10. Laser ablation in the IR is likely to produce even lower ion yields due to the lower photon energies typically lower absorption coefficients and the copious ejection of neutral particulates. As a consequence the sensitivity in mass spectrometric applications suffers and the ion composition in the plume can be markedly different from the makeup of the target.

These problems can be alleviated by utilizing the neutral molecular species in the plume through post ionization strategies. For example at atmospheric pressure applying a radioactive y emitter e.g. a Ni foil or chemical ionization through a corona discharge improved the ion yields for low mass molecules. In a recent breakthrough the ELDI method combined UV laser ablation with ESI. Significantly ELDI did not exhibit discrimination against high mass analytes up to about 20 kDa.

Encouraged by the success of ELDI on pretreated and or dehydrated samples we sought to develop a new ionization technique for the analysis of untreated water rich biological samples under ambient conditions. Similarly to AP IR MALDI in LAESI mid IR laser ablation was used to produce a plume directly from the target. To post ionize the neutrals and the particulate matter this plume was intercepted under right angle by an electrospray operating in the cone jet regime. shows the schematics of the experimental arrangement. We chose the cone jet spraying regime because of its exceptional ion yield and elevated duty cycle compared to other e.g. burst or pulsating modes of ESI operation. The sampling orifice of the mass spectrometer was in line with the spray axis. With the spray operating laser ablation of targets absorbing in the mid IR resulted in abundant ion signal over a wide range of m z values. With no solution pumped through the electrified or floating emitter no ions were detected during the experiments. Conversely with the spray present but without laser ablation no ion signal was observed. Thus a DESI like scenario or one involving chemical ionization through corona discharge at the emitter did not play role in the ionization process. As we demonstrate after the discussion of concrete applications LAESI also bears major differences from ELDI in both the range of its utility and probably in the details of ion production.

The figures of merit for LAESI were encouraging. The detection limit for reserpine and Verapamil analytes were about 100 fmol sample about 0.1 fmol ablated spot . Very importantly quantitation showed linear response over four orders of magnitude with correlation coefficients of R 0.999 for both analytes. No ion suppression effect was observed. We successfully tested the use of LAESI on a variety of samples including pharmaceuticals small dye molecules peptides explosives synthetic polymers animal and plant tissues etc. in both positive and negative ion modes. Here we only present some of the examples most relevant in life sciences.

Fexofenadine molecular formula CHNO is the active ingredient of various medications e.g. Allegra and Telfast for the treatment of histamine related allergic reactions. This second generation antihistamine does not readily enter the brain from the blood and it therefore causes less drowsiness than other remedies. To understand the pharmacokinetics of the active ingredient absorption distribution metabolism and excretion ADME studies are needed. For example radiotracer investigations shown that fexofenadine was very poorly metabolized only about 5 of the total oral dose and the preferential route of excretion was through feces and urine 80 and 11 respectively . This and other traditional methods e.g. liquid chromatography with MS however are time consuming and require a great deal of sample preparation. As in the clinical stage of drug development it is common to encounter the need for the analysis of 1 000 to 10 000 samples high throughput analysis is important. We tested whether LAESI was capable of rapidly detecting fexofenadine directly from urine without chemical pretreatment or separation.

A Telfast caplet with 120 mg of fexofenadine FEX was orally administered to a healthy volunteer. Urine samples were collected before and several times after ingestion. For all cases a 5 L aliquot of the untreated sample was uniformly spread on a microscope slide and directly analyzed by LAESI MS. A comparison made between the LAESI mass spectra showed that new spectral features appeared after drug administration. shows the mass spectrum acquired two hours after ingestion. The peaks highlighted by red ovals correspond to the protonated form and the fragments of fexofenadine. Exact mass measurements indicated the presence of an ion with m z 502.2991 that corresponded to the elemental composition CHNOH with a 7.5 ppm mass accuracy. The measured about 35 intensity at M 1 see red inset is consistent with the isotope abundances of this elemental composition. The mass spectra showed the presence of numerous other metabolites not related to the drug. For example protonated ions of creatinine the breakdown product of phosphocreatine were very abundant. In future studies the other numerous metabolites present can be identified through e.g. tandem MS for broader metabolomics applications.

For reference the caplet itself was also analyzed by LAESI see black inset in . A small portion of the caplet core was dissolved in 50 methanol containing 0.1 acetic acid and reserpine RES was added for exact mass measurements. The black inset in shows that both the fexofenadine and the reserpine underwent in source collision activated dissociation. In the black inset of the resulting fragments are labeled as F F Fand F respectively. A comparison of the urine and caplet spectra reveled that the other two new species observed in the urine sample were fragments of fexofenadine Fand F .

Due to the excellent quantitation capabilities of LAESI the kinetics of fexofenadine excretion was easily followed. As no sample preparation is needed the analysis time is limited by sample presentation spotting on the target plate and spectrum acquisition that for individual samples take about 5 s and about 0.05 s respectively. For high throughput applications the sample presentation time can be significantly reduced by sample holder arrays e.g. 384 well plates and robotic plate manipulation.

Due to the complexity of the sample the chemical analysis of whole blood is a challenging task generally aided by separation techniques. Exceptions are the DESI and ELDI methods that have been shown to detect various molecules from moderately treated whole blood samples. In this example we demonstrate that LAESI can detect metabolites and proteins directly from untreated whole blood samples.

Approximately 5 L of whole blood was spread on a microscope slide and was directly analyzed by LAESI. In the mass spectra see several singly and multiply charged metabolites were detected in the low m z 1000 Da region a series of multiply charged ions were observed. Their deconvolution identified them as the and chains of human hemoglobin with neutral masses of 15 127 Da and 15 868 Da respectively see the inset in . A protein with a neutral mass of 10 335 Da was also detected possibly corresponding to the circulating form of guanylin in human blood.

Lyophilized human serum deficient in immunoglobulins was reconstituted in deionized water and was subjected to LAESI MS. The averaged spectrum is shown in . Several metabolites were detected and identified in the lower m z region including carnitine phosphocholine PC tetradecenoylcarnitine C14 carnitine and glycerophosphocholines GPC . Based on molecular mass measurements alone the structural isomers of GPCs cannot be distinguished. Using tandem mass spectrometry however many of these isomers and the additional species present in the spectrum can be identified. Similarly to the previous example multiply charged ion distributions were also observed. By the deconvolution of the ions observed in the higher m z region see inset we identified human serum albumin HSA with a neutral mass of 66 556 Da. These examples indicate that LAESI achieves ESI like ionization without sample preparation and extends the m z range of the AP IR MALDI technique.

Post ionization of the laser ablation plume provides LAESI with superior ionization efficiency over AP MALDI approaches. For example we observed a about 10 10fold enhancement in ion abundances compared to those reported for AP IR MALDI. Higher sensitivity is most beneficial for in vivo studies that usually aim at the detection of low concentration species with minimal or no damage to the organism. As an example we utilized LAESI for the in vivo profiling of metabolites in petite French marigold seedlings. The home grown plants were placed on a microscope slide and single laser shot analysis was performed on the leaf stem and root of the plant to minimize the tissue damage.

The acquired mass spectra see revealed various metabolites at high abundances. We identified some of these compounds in a two step process. Due to the similarity of some metabolites for a diversity of plants we first performed a search for the measured masses in the metabolomic database for available at http www.arabidopsis.org . Then the isotopic distributions of each ionic species were determined to support our findings and also to separate some isobaric species. The list of compounds was further extended by performing LAESI experiments in which the mass spectra were averaged over about 5 to 10 consecutive laser shots see . Several additional compounds were detected most likely due to the better signal to noise ratio provided by signal averaging.

By comparing the mass spectra obtained on the leaf stem and root we found that certain metabolites were specific to the organs of the plant. The assigned compounds with the location of their occurrence and some of the related metabolic pathways are listed in Table 1. Consistent with the noncovalent hexose clusters in both the leaf and the stem had a high glucose and pigment content. However different types of flavonoids were found in the leaf and the stem. The root primarily contained low mass metabolites e.g. saturated and unsaturated plant oils. These oils were also present in the other two organs of the plant. However the root appeared to be rich in the saturated oils.

Compounds 9 and 11 were detected at surprisingly high abundances. For the latter however the database search gave no results. In source CID experiments proved that 11 had relatively high stability therefore the possibility of a noncovalent cluster was excluded. Exact mass measurements gave m z 763.1671 with about 40 Misotopic distribution which corresponded to a CHONa elemental composition within 4 ppm mass accuracy. Although multiple structural isomers could correspond to the same chemical formula based on previous reports in the literature on a flavonoid of identical mass we assigned the compound as the sodiated form of kaempferol 3 O 2 3 di p coumaroyl glucoside. Tandem MS results on extracts from the stem indicated the presence of several structural features consistent with this assignment. The presence of other kaempferol derivatives in the plant can also be viewed as corroborative evidence.

After the analysis microscope examination of the stem and the leaf revealed circular ablation marks of about 350 m in diameter see the insets in . This localized superficial damage had no influence on the life cycle of the seedling. We must emphasize however that due to the ablation by the laser LAESI is a destructive method thus the size of the sampled area currently 350 400 m needs to be considered as a limiting factor for in vivo experiments. Improvements can be achieved by reducing the size of the ablated areas or applying lower laser irradiances. As the current focusing lens has no correction for spherical aberration significantly tighter focusing and much less damage can be achieved by using aspherical optics.

In the LAESI experiments surprisingly large target to spray distances 10 to 30 mm provided the strongest signal. We also noticed that short distances e.g. about 5 mm led to the destabilization of the electrospray resulting in a significant deterioration of the ion counts.

Following the laser pulse often material ejection was observed in the form of small particulates. The optimum distance of the ablation spot to the spray axis was established as about 25 mm but appreciable ion abundances were still measured at 30 mm and beyond. As the area of the laser spot did not change noticeably within about 20 mm of the focal distance the variations in LAESI signal were not related to differences in laser irradiance.

These observations in combination with fast imaging results on IR laser ablation can provide some insight into the mechanism of LAESI. At similar laser fluences water and soft tissues first undergo non equilibrium vaporization in the form of surface evaporation and to a much larger degree phase explosion. After about 1 s the expansion stops at a few millimeters from the surface and the plume collapses. Due to the recoil stress in the condensed phase secondary material ejection follows in the form of particulates that can last up to several hundred microseconds. These particulates travel to larger distances than the initial plume. They are slowed and eventually stopped at tens of millimeters from the target by the drag force exerted on them by the resting background gas. The difference between the stopping distance of the primary plume and the recoil induced particle ejection can explain the difference between the optimum sampling distance for AP IR MALDI about 2 mm and LAESI about 25 mm .

To confirm the interaction of the laser ablated particulates with the electro spray droplets in LAESI fast imaging of the anticipated interaction region was carried out with about 10 ns exposure time. Upon infrared laser ablation of methanol solution target positioned 10 mm below and about 1 mm ahead of the emitter tip a fine cloud consisting of particulates with sizes below 1 to 3 m was produced and it was traveling vertically from the bottom to the top in . These particulates were intercepted by the electrospray plume that evolved horizontally from left to right at the sampling height. In the pulsating mode see the top panel of the ES plume is clearly visible as it expands from the end of the filament in a conical pattern. The laser ablated particles are somewhat larger and enter from the bottom.

The image in the bottom panel shows the ES source operating in the cone jet regime and producing much smaller droplets that are not resolved in the image. Here the larger laser ablated particles are clearly visible and are shown to travel through the region of the ES plume. Comparing the LAESI signal for pulsating and cone jet ES regimes indicated that ion production was more efficient in the latter. These images suggest that the mechanism of ion formation in LAESI involves the fusion of laser ablated particulates with charged ES droplets. The combined droplets are thus seeded with the analytes from the target retain their charge and continue their trajectory toward the mass spectrometer. Many of the ions produced from these droplets are derived from the analytes in the ablation target and exhibit the characteristics of ES ionization e.g. multiply charged ions for peptides and proteins see .

According to the fused droplet hypothesis introduced for ELDI a similar process is responsible for ion production in that method. In ELDI however a UV laser is used to perform desorption as opposed to ablation from the target with minimal surface damage. The presence of desorption in ELDI is also supported by the requirement for the relatively close proximity of the sample to the spray plume 3 mm for sufficient ionization. In LAESI significantly larger amount of material is removed by the laser pulse. Analysis of ELDI and LAESI samples for the degree of laser damage after analysis could further clarify this distinction. Further differences stem from the operation of the ESI source. In ELDI there is no control over the spraying regime whereas in LAESI the spray is operated in cone jet mode.

Mid infrared LAESI is a novel ambient mass spectrometric ion source for biological and medical samples and organisms with high water content. Beyond the benefits demonstrated in the Results section it offers further yet untested possibilities. Unlike imaging with UV MALDI it does not require the introduction of an external matrix thus the intricacies associated with the application of the matrix coating are avoided and no matrix effects are expected. By increasing the pulse energy of the ablating laser it can be used to remove surface material and perform analysis at larger depths. Alternating between material removal and analysis can yield depth profile information. With improved focusing of the laser beam using aspherical or ultimately near field optics these manipulations can be made more precise and result in better spatial resolution. Reducing the size of the interrogated spot can open new possibilities with the eventual goal of subcellular analysis. These efforts have to be balanced by the sacrifices made in sensitivity due to the smaller amount of material available for analysis. Due to the efficiency of post ionization in LAESI however the attainable minimum spot size is expected to be smaller than in for example AP IR MALDI.

An inherent limitation of LAESI is its dependence on the water content of the sample. Thus tissues with lower mid IR absorbances e.g. dry skin bone nail and tooth require significantly higher laser fluences to ablate. This effect is exaggerated by the higher tensile strength of these tissues that suppresses the recoil induced particle ejection. Furthermore variations of water content and or tensile strength in a sample can also lead to changes in LAESI ion yield and influence imaging results.

Based on our understanding of the LAESI mechanism additional improvements in ion yield can be expected from enhancing the interaction between the laser ablation and the electrospray plumes. For example tubular confinement of the ablation plume can make it more directed and increase its overlap with the electrospray. Adjusting the laser wavelength to other CH or NH absorption bands can introduce additional channels for laser energy deposition thereby enabling the analysis of biological samples with low water content. The current and anticipated unique capabilities of LAESI promise to benefit the life sciences in metabolomic screening and imaging applications including the possibility of in vivo studies.

Referring to schematics illustrate LAESI using reflection geometry and LAESI using transmission geometry with components labeled. The components are provided in TABLE 2 below and are indicated by reference number.

It will be clear to a person of ordinary skill in the art that the above embodiments may be altered or that insubstantial changes may be made without departing from the scope of the invention. Accordingly the scope of the invention is determined by the scope of the following claims and their equitable equivalents.

