---

title: Simultaneous transmit and receive
abstract: A simultaneous transmit and receive (STR) technology is described. The eNB is configured with a downlink centric measurement threshold and an uplink centric measurement threshold which increase overall capacity in the wireless cellular network. A signal measurement command is transmitted from the eNB to the UE instructing the UE to take a signal quality measurement. The signal quality measurement is received from the UE at the eNB. It is determined whether the signal quality measurement is greater than the downlink centric measurement threshold and whether the signal quality measurement is greater than the uplink centric measurement threshold. The downlink centric measurement threshold, the uplink centric measurement threshold, and the DL/UL ratio are configured to increase capacity in the wireless cellular network through selective use of STR.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09590772&OS=09590772&RS=09590772
owner: INTEL CORPORATION
number: 09590772
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130627
---
The present application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 667 325 filed Jul. 2 2012 the entire specification of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety for all purposes.

Capacity in wireless communication networks is generally limited by the radio spectrum available. The capacity of a wireless communication network therefore depends on efficient use of the available radio spectrum. Since the radio spectrum allocated to a wireless cellular network is often fixed and because network operators generally desire increase capacity there are efforts to make more efficient use of the allocated radio spectrum.

In a wireless cellular network the allocated radio spectrum is often divided for example by time frequency and or space. For instance the allocated radio spectrum may be divided into a subset of frequency channels. The frequency channels are usually spaced far enough apart so that they do not overlap and generate cross channel interference. In this regard each of these channels may be used independently of one another since they use a separate frequency range. In a wireless cellular network some channels may be dedicated to downlink communication and other channels may be dedicated to uplink communication.

Radio spectrum may also be divided by time and or space. An uplink channel for instance may be divided into distinct time slots. Each user equipment UE in the wireless cellular network may be assigned a time slot in which the UE is granted the right to transmit data on the uplink channel. In this sense the radio spectrum is said to be time divided. Radio spectrum may also be divided by space by reusing for example frequencies in disparate locations. For instance a plurality of cells in the wireless cellular network may cover non overlapping areas such that a given frequency may be reused across the plurality of cells without experiencing interference on the given frequency.

A technology is described that reduces interference between user equipments UEs in a wireless cellular network using simultaneous transmission and reception STR . In particular an uplink UL centric measurement threshold and a downlink DL centric measurement threshold are configured based on a DL UL ratio of a base station BS e.g. an Evolved Node B eNB in the wireless cellular network. While the term base station or eNB is used throughout the application it is not intended to be limiting. As used herein the term base station can refer to any transceiver in a cellular type communication system that is configured to communicate with one or more mobile stations or user equipment. Likewise while the term user equipment UE is used throughout the application it is not intended to be limiting. As used herein the term user equipment can refer to any transceiver in a cellular type communication system that is configured to communicate with one or more base stations or primarily intended to be used by subscribers of a cellular type communication system. This can include communication systems configured to operate based on standards such as the Institute of Electronic and Electrical Engineers IEEE 802.16e 2005 and 802.16m 2011 and Third Generation Partnership Project 3GPP Long Term Evolution Release 8 9 10 and 11. Other cellular systems that are configured to allow a single transceiver base station or enhanced node B to communicate with multiple mobile communication devices are also considered to be within the scope of the application.

STR allows transmission on the same frequency at the same time and can potentially double the physical layer capacity. STR can also be referred to as full duplex communication. The use of STR may introduce two new unique interferences into a wireless cellular network comprised of base stations and user equipment UE . Namely BS BS interference and UE UE interference may occur as a result of STR. These two new interferences may degrade system performance if not handled appropriately. The technology provides devices systems and methods to minimize UE UE interference. More specifically the technology may be used to increase capacity in a wireless cellular network through selective use of STR.

For example two user equipments UE and UE may be located adjacent to one another. Further while adjacent UE and UE may also be located within the cell area of eNB and eNB respectively. UE UE eNB and eNB may be using STR. In using STR the uplink UL of UE may create co channel interference with the UL of UE. Further in using STR the UL of UE may also create interference with the downlink DL of UE.

STR or full duplex systems may not only improve the physical layer capacity but may also provide other important benefits in layers beyond the physical layer. For example STR may reduce end to end delay in multi hop networks. In half duplex systems each node can start transmission of a packet to the next node only when it is fully received from the prior node in network. Therefore the end to end delay is equal to packet duration multiplied by the number of hops. However when STR is employed a node can forward a packet while receiving it and consequently the end to end delay in STR systems can be just a bit longer than the packet duration. This will be a huge advantage over half duplex systems especially as the number of hops grows. Meanwhile the forwarded packet to next node can play a role of implicit acknowledgement ACK to the previous node as well.

STR may achieve the doubled capacity especially in isolated links such as point to point communications and wireless backhaul. In cellular systems however the situation is different and additional measurements may have to be taken. In addition to the regular co channel interference present in half duplex systems namely base station BS to UE and UE to BS interferences there are two unique interferences caused by system operation in full duplex mode BS BS interference and UE UE interference.

To reduce UE UE interference and increase capacity in a full duplex wireless communication system STR may be selectively used. Thresholds for instance may be set based on one or more measured signal qualities at a UE.

Detailed discussion will first be made concerning STR by referencing in particular . Discussion will then be made concerning UE UE interference and the selective use of STR to increase capacity in a wireless cellular network by referencing in particular . Accordingly depicts a temporal relationship diagram for simultaneous transmit and receive STR for a portion of an exemplary downlink radio frame and a portion an exemplary uplink radio frame of a channel. STR allows transmit and receive operations to occur simultaneously at the same RF carrier. Accordingly STR can increase channel capacity to up to twice that of a conventional Time Division Duplexing TDD based and or Frequency Division Duplexing FDD based channel because the downlink DL and uplink UL channels share the same RF carrier both in time and in frequency resources. In one exemplary embodiment the network infrastructure i.e. the base station BS enhanced NodeB eNB femtocell home eNB etc. implements simultaneous transmit and receive according to the subject matter disclosed herein if a user equipment UE can simultaneously transmit and receive at the same frequency. More specifically depicts the general temporal relationship between an exemplary portion of a downlink DL radio frame and an exemplary portion of an uplink UL radio frame for simultaneous transmit and receive according to the subject matter disclosed herein. Both DL radio frame and UL radio frame are at the same exemplary RF carrier frequency f. Exemplary DL radio frame includes a Broadcast Control Channel portion a second portion in which a DL transmission from the eNB to an exemplary UE is scheduled a third portion in which a DL transmission from the eNB to an exemplary UE is scheduled a fourth portion in which a DL transmission from the eNB to an exemplary UE is scheduled and a fifth portion in which no DL transmission is scheduled. Exemplary UL radio frame includes a first portion in which no UL transmission is scheduled a second portion in which an UL transmission from UE to the eNB is scheduled a third portion in which an UL transmission from UE is scheduled a fourth portion in which an UL transmission from UE is scheduled and a fifth portion in which an UL transmission from an exemplary UE is scheduled. It should be understood that both DL radio frame and UL radio frame could include additional portions that are not depicted in or described herein.

As depicted in during the first portion of DL frame when the eNB transmits broadcast channel and control channel information no UE UL transmission should be scheduled as the UEs are in a receive mode to receive scheduling and other control channel information. If however a UE is STR capable the UE can be scheduled for UL transmission . At the end of first portion both DL transmissions from the eNB and UL transmissions from UEs are scheduled to occur simultaneously. Because the time for a UE to switch from a transmission mode Tx to a receive mode Rx and from Rx to Tx is generally non zero scheduling of DL and UL transmission for a particular UE that does not have STR capability must provide a time delay between DL and UL transmissions so that the UE has sufficient time switch between Tx to Rx modes and Rx to Tx modes. In one exemplary embodiment a 5 sec time delay is used for allowing a UE that does not have STR capability to switch between Tx and Rx modes and between Rx and Tx modes. In another exemplary embodiment a time delay of less than 5 sec could be used. In still another exemplary embodiment the respective times to switch between Tx and Rx modes and between Rx and Tx modes are substantially the same. In yet another exemplary embodiment the respective times to switch between Tx and Rx modes and between Rx and Tx modes differs. Additionally because as UE may not necessarily have a STR capability a scheduler device should avoid scheduling DL and UL packets for a particular UE that overlap both in time and carrier frequency. Alternatively if a UE has STR capability then a scheduler device can schedule DL and UL packets for the STR capable UE that overlap both in time and carrier frequency.

If UE is not STR capable depicts for example that during second portion of DL frame the eNB is transmitting a DL signal to UE while simultaneously UE is transmitting a Lit signal to the eNB during the second portion of UL frame . If UE is not STR capable then a time delay t is added to the schedule so that UE has enough time to switch from a Rx mode to a Tx mode. Also as depicted in a DL transmission from the eNB to UE is scheduled during a third portion consequently the second portion of UL frame is scheduled to end with enough time t for UE to switch from a Tx mode to an Rx mode. During the third portion of UL frame . UE is scheduled to transmit a UL signal to the eNB. The exemplary third portion is scheduled to end so that UE has sufficient time t to switch from the Tx mode to the Rx mode to receive the scheduled DL signal transmitted from the eNB to UE during the fourth portion of DL frame . Additionally the DL signal from the eNB to UE during second portion of DL frame is scheduled to end so that there is sufficient time t for UE to switch from the Rx mode to the Tx mode and transmit a UL signal to the eNB during the fourth portion of the UL frame . No DL transmission is scheduled during the fifth portion of DL frame and during the fifth portion of UL frame UE which for this example is located near an edge of the cell of the eNB and thereby produces a low received signal power at the eNB is scheduled to transmit a UL signal when no DL signal is transmitted by the eNB in order to reduce the adverse effects of interference even if UE is STR capable.

For both STR capable UE and an STR incapable UE during portion of DL signal and portion of UL signal if the respective UL transmission from UE unacceptably interferes with the UL signal for UE the respective transmission for UE and UE could be scheduled to be at different subbands thereby reducing the interference. Alternatively and additionally UE and UE could be selected based on their relative physical positioning in the cell to reduce interference that is UE and UE could be selected to be physically far apart in the cell to reduce interference.

For UE was described as being located near an edge of the cell of the eNB and thereby producing a to received signal power at the eNB consequently simultaneous transmit and receive may not work effectively. For situations in which a UE is physically located near an edge of a cell and or a received weak signal from a UE scheduler device may determine to not schedule any DL transmission so that UL transmissions from the UE are reliably received at the eNB. In the situation in which both the eNB and the UE are STR capable and if the simultaneous transmit and receive is not effective because the STR capable UE is located near an edge of the cell the eNB and UE could operate in a TDD based mode. That is if either device is transmitting a signal the other device should not transmit any signal.

In an alternative exemplary embodiment a UE comprises the capability to communicate the time delay required for the UE to switch from a Tx mode to an Rx mode and or from an Rx mode to a Tx mode. The scheduler device associated with the eNB could use the specific time delays communicated from a UE to optimize scheduling of simultaneous transmit and receive operation during a radio frame.

The main logical nodes of CN include a Serving General Packet Radio Service GPRS Support Node the Mobility Management Entity a Home Subscriber Server HSS a Serving Gate SGW a Packet Data Network PDN Gateway and a Policy and Charging Rules Function PCRF Manager . The functionality of each of the network elements of CN is well known and is not described herein. Each of the network elements of CN are interconnected by well known standardized interfaces some of which are indicated in such as interfaces S3 S4 S5 etc. although not described herein.

While CN includes many logical nodes the E UTRAN access network is formed by one node the evolved NodeB eNB which connects to one or more User Equipment UE of which only one is depicted in . For normal user traffic as opposed to broadcast there is no centralized controller in E UTRAN hence the E UTRAN architecture is said to be flat. The eNBs are normally interconnected with each other by an interface known as X2 and to the EPC by an S1 interface. More specifically to Mobility Management Entity MME by an S1 MME interface and to the SGW by an S1 U interface. The protocols that rim between the eNBs and the UEs are generally referred to as the Applicability Statement AS protocols. Details of the various interfaces are well known and not described herein.

The eNB hosts the Physical PHY Medium Access Control MAC Radio Link Control RLC and Packet Data Control Protocol PDCP layers which are not shown in and which include the functionality of user plane header compression and encryption. The eNB also provides Radio Resource Control RRC functionality corresponding to the control plane and performs many functions including radio resource management admission control scheduling enforcement of negotiated Up Link UL Quality of Service QoS cell information broadcast ciphering deciphering of user and control plane data and compression decompression of DL UL user plane packet headers.

The RRC layer in eNB covers all functions related to the radio bearers such as radio bearer control radio admission control radio mobility control scheduling and dynamic allocation of resources to UEs in both uplink and downlink scheduling of simultaneous transmission and receive header compression for efficient use of the radio interface security of all data sent over the radio interface and connectivity to the EPC. The RRC layer makes handover decisions based on neighbor cell measurements sent by UE generates pages for UEs over the air broadcasts system information controls UE measurement reporting such as the periodicity of Channel Quality Information CQI reports and allocates cell level temporary identifiers to active UEs . The RRC layer also executes transfer of UE context from a source eNB to a target eNB during handover and provides integrity protection for RRC messages. Additionally the RRC layer is responsible for the setting up and maintenance of radio bearers.

The physical PHY layer which is the first layer L1 provides an information transfer service to an upper layer using a physical channel. The physical layer is connected to a Medium Access Control MAC layer which is located above the physical layer through a transport channel. Data is transferred between the MAC layer and the PHY layer through the transport channel. A transport channel is classified into a dedicated transport channel and a common transport channel according to whether or not the channel is shared. Data transfer between different physical layers specifically between the respective physical layers of a transmitter and a receiver is performed through the physical channel.

A variety of layers exist in the second layer L2 layer . For example the MAC layer maps various logical channels to various transport channels and performs logical channel multiplexing for mapping various logical channels to one transport channel. The MAC layer is connected to the Radio Link Control RLC layer serving as an upper layer through a logical channel. The logical channel can be classified into a control channel for transmitting information of a control plane and a traffic channel for transmitting information of a user plane according to categories of transmission information.

The RLC layer of the second layer L2 performs segmentation and concatenation on data received from an upper layer and adjusts the size of data to be suitable for a lower layer transmitting data to a radio interval. In order to guarantee various Qualities of Service QoSs requested by respective radio bearers RBs three operation modes i.e. a Transparent Mode TM an Unacknowledged Mode UM and an Acknowledged Mode AM are provided. Specifically an AM RLC performs a retransmission function using an Automatic Repeat and Request ARQ function so as to implement reliable data transmission.

A Packet Data Convergence Protocol PDCP layer of the second layer L2 performs a header compression function to reduce the size of an IP packet header having relatively large and unnecessary control information in order to efficiently transmit IP packets such as IPv4 or IPv6 packets in a radio interval with a narrow bandwidth. As a result only information required for a header part of data can be transmitted so that transmission efficiency of the radio interval can be increased. In addition in an LTE based system the PDCP layer performs a security function that includes a ciphering function for preventing a third parry from eavesdropping on data and an integrity protection function for preventing a third party from handling data.

A Radio Resource Control RRC layer located at the top of the third layer L3 is defined only in the control plane and is responsible for control of logical transport and physical channels in association with configuration re configuration and release of Radio Bearers RBs . The RB is a logical path that the first and second layers L1 and L2 provide for data communication between the UE and the UTRAN. Generally Radio Bearer RB configuration means that a radio protocol layer needed for providing a specific service and channel characteristics are defined and their detailed parameters and operation methods are configured. The Radio Bearer RB is classified into a Signaling RB SRB and a Data RB DRB . The SRB is used as a transmission passage of RRC messages in the C plane and the DRB is used as a transmission passage of user data in the U plane.

A downlink transport channel for transmitting data from the network to the UE may be classified into a Broadcast Channel BCH for transmitting system information and a downlink Shared Channel SCH for transmitting user traffic or control messages. Traffic or control messages of a downlink multicast or broadcast service may be transmitted through a downlink SCH and may also be transmitted through a downlink multicast channel MCH . Uplink transport channels for transmission of data from the UE to the network include a Random Access Channel RACH for transmission of initial control messages and an uplink SCH for transmission of user traffic or control messages.

Downlink physical channels for transmitting information transferred to a downlink transport channel to a radio interval between the UE and the network are classified into a Physical Broadcast Channel PBCH for transmitting BCH information a Physical Multicast Channel PMCH for transmitting MCH information a Physical Downlink Shared Channel PDSCH for transmitting downlink SCH information and a Physical Downlink Control Channel PDCCH also called a DL L1 L2 control channel for transmitting control information such as DL UL Scheduling Grant information received from first and second layers L1 and L2 . In the meantime uplink physical channels for transmitting information transferred to an uplink transport channel to a radio interval between the UE and the network are classified into a Physical Uplink Shared Channel PUSCH for transmitting uplink SCH information a Physical Random Access Channel for transmitting RACH information and a Physical Uplink Control Channel PUCCH for transmitting control information such as Hybrid Automatic Repeat Request HARQ ACK or NACK Scheduling Request SR and Channel Quality Indicator CQT report information received from first and second layers L1 and L2 .

Information handling system may comprise one or more processors such as processor and or processor which may comprise one or more processing cores. One or more of processor and or processor may couple to one or more memories and or via memory bridge which may be disposed external to processors and or or alternatively at least partially disposed within one or more of processors and or . Memory and or memory may comprise various types of semiconductor based memory for example volatile type memory and or non volatile type memory. Memory bridge may couple to a graphics system which may include a graphics processor not shown to drive a display device such as a CRT an LCD display an LED display touch screen display etc. all not shown coupled to information handling system .

Information handling system may further comprise input output I O bridge to couple to various types of I O systems such as a keyboard not shown a display not shown and or an audio output device not shown such as a speaker. I O system may comprise for example a universal serial bus USB type system an IEEE 1394 type system or the like to couple one or more peripheral devices to information handling system . Bus system may comprise one or more bus systems such as a peripheral component interconnect PCI express type bus or the like to connect one or more peripheral devices to information handling system . A hard disk drive HDD controller system may couple one or more hard disk drives or the like to information handling system for example Serial ATA type drives or the like or alternatively a semiconductor based drive comprising flash memory phase change and or chalcogenide type memory or the like. Switch may be utilized to couple one or more switched devices to I O bridge for example Gigabit Ethernet type devices or the like. Furthermore as shown in information handling system may include a radio frequency RF block comprising RF circuits and devices for wireless communication with other wireless communication devices and or via wireless networks such as core network of for example in which information handling system embodies base station and or wireless device although the scope of the claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect. In one or more embodiments information handling system could comprise an eNB and or a UE that is provides simultaneous transmit and receive capability according to the subject matter disclosed herein.

Wireless device may communicate with access point via wireless communication link in which access point may include at least one antenna transceiver processor and memory . In one embodiment access point may be an eNB an eNB having simultaneous transmit and receive scheduling capability a RRH a base station of a cellular telephone network and in an alternative embodiment access point may be an access point or wireless router of a wireless local or personal area network although the scope of the claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect. In an alternative embodiment access point and optionally mobile unit may include two or more antennas for example to provide a spatial division multiple access SDMA system or a multiple input multiple output MIMO system although the scope of the claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect. Access point may couple with network so that mobile unit may communicate with network including devices coupled to network by communicating with access point via wireless communication link . Network may include a public network such as a telephone network or the Internet or alternatively network may include a private network such as an intranet or a combination of a public and a private network although the scope of the claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect. Communication between mobile unit and access point may be implemented via a wireless local area network WLAN for example a network compliant with a an Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE standard such as IEEE 802.11a IEEE 802.11b HiperLAN II and so on although the scope of the claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect. In another embodiment communication between mobile unit and access point may be at least partially implemented via a cellular communication network compliant with a 3GPP standard although the scope of the claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect. In one or more embodiments antenna s may be utilized in a wireless sensor network or a mesh network although the scope of the claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect.

Turning now to BS BS interference in wireless cellular networks using STR illustrates types of interference that may be encountered in a wireless cellular network using STR. A simplified depiction of a wireless cellular network is depicted with a BS a BS a UE and a UE . The BS covers a cell area while the BS covers a cell area . The UE is located in the cell area and is thereby communicatively connected to or associated with the BS while the UE is located in the cell area and is thereby communicatively connected to or associated with the BS . That is the UE has a DL and an UL to and from the BS while the UE has a DL and an UL to and from the BS .

The wireless cellular network illustrated in is capable of using STR. While STR allows transmission and reception on the same frequency at the same time and can potentially double the physical layer capacity as depicted STR may introduce two new unique interferences into a wireless cellular network as previously discussed. There may be UE UE interference due to transmissions by the UE that interfere with reception at the UE . Conversely there may be UE UE interference due to transmissions by the UE that interfere with reception at the UE . In particular these interferences may occur in both the ULs and DLs transmission directions. More to the point due to STR the UL may interfere with DL and DL may be corrupted by UL . Hence any proximate UE pairs may interfere with each other and result in a reduction or loss of capacity. In addition to UE UE interference there may also be BS BS interferences and . These two new interferences may degrade system performance if not handled appropriately.

In order to minimize UE UE interference and increase capacity in the wireless cellular network a downlink centric measurement threshold and an uplink centric measurement threshold can be configured at an eNB based on a DL UL ratio of the eNB in the wireless cellular network. For instance a signal measurement command may be transmitted from the eNB to the UE instructing the UE to take a signal quality measurement. Once the signal quality measurement is received by the UE the UE may perform one or more signal quality measurements and transmit the results to the eNB. The eNB may determine whether the signal quality measurements are greater than the thresholds and further instruct the UE to operate in STR mode or non STR mode. The UE may also be provided the thresholds and autonomously determine whether the thresholds have been exceeded and operate in STR or non STR mode accordingly.

In order to balance the gains from using STR relative to the losses caused by interference the additional UL gain can be balanced against the DL loss. A UE may perform a signal quality measurement such as a DL signal to interference and noise ratio SINR test at the UE. The result of the SINR test may be used to choose whether the UE can use STR with the DL centric resource in order to increase capacity in the wireless cellular network. More generally multiple respective SINR measurements may be used to choose multiple Us to use STR with the DL centric resource. The technique may similarly be used with the UL centric resource to select UEs to use STR with the UL centric resource. In this way illustrates areas of cells and which operate in STR mode or non STR mode in either the DL centric resource or the UL centric resource. Of particular note is that generally areas towards the periphery of a cell may overlap other cells. The amount of interference caused by STR at the periphery may be greater than the gains. Therefore it may not be suitable for UEs towards the periphery of a cell to use STR. In other words it may not increase capacity in the wireless cellular network to have UEs in the periphery of a cell operate in an STR mode.

A signal quality measurement module may also be configured to operate with the UE . The signal quality measurement module may perform the measurement of the signal quality at the UE . In receiving the duplex communication mode command an operate duplex mode module can configure the UE to operate in full duplex communication mode or half duplex communication mode as dictated by the duplex communication mode command. Network capacity gain using STR should generally be larger than the network loss sustained through using STR. By checking a signal quality at respective UEs UEs that provide a net network capacity gain may be identified. A signal quality threshold may be set at Of near the point in which the use of STR provides a net network capacity gain so that UEs can be quickly and reliably set to use STR mode where appropriate.

Additionally one or more of the following features may be included in the UE . The signal quality threshold may include a signal to interference and noise ratio SINR at the UE a signal to interference ratio STR at the UE a signal to noise ratio SNR at the UE and or may be relative to interference from adjacent UEs. The UE may include an antenna a touch sensitive display screen a speaker a microphone a graphics processor an application processor internal memory or a non volatile memory port.

Additionally one or more of the following features may be included in the wireless node . The signal quality threshold may include a signal to interference and noise ratio SINTR at the UE a signal to interference ratio STR at the UE a signal to noise ratio SNR at the UE and or may be relative to interference from adjacent UEs. The wireless node may be a BS a Node B an eNB a baseband unit BBU a remote radio head RRH a remote radio equipment RRE a remote radio unit RRU or a central processing module CPM .

Another example provides a method for increasing capacity in a wireless cellular network using STR by selective use of STR as shown in the flow chart in . The method may be executed as instructions on a machine where the instructions are included on at least one computer readable medium or at least one non transitory machine readable storage medium.

The method can include the operation of configuring the eNB with a downlink centric measurement threshold and an uplink centric measurement threshold which maximize overall capacity in the wireless cellular network as in block . This ratio may be set by a network operator based on measurements of signal quality made in the cellular network which maximizes overall network capacity. The method may include transmitting a signal measurement command from the eNB to the UE instructing the UE to take a signal quality measurement as in block . The method may include receiving the signal quality measurement from the UE at the eNB as in block . An additional operation can include determining whether the signal quality measurement is greater than the downlink centric measurement threshold and whether the signal quality measurement is greater than the uplink centric measurement threshold as in block . The downlink centric measurement threshold the uplink centric measurement threshold and the DL UL may be configured to increase capacity in the wireless cellular network through selective use of STR.

The method may include one or more of the following features. The method may include transmitting an STR mode command from the eNB to the UE instructing the UE to operate in an STR mode on the uplink centric resource when the determination is that a signal quality measurement is greater than the uplink centric measurement threshold. The method may include transmitting an STR mode command from the eNB to the UE instructing the UE to operate in a non STR mode on the uplink centric resource when the determination is that the signal quality measurement is less than the uplink centric measurement threshold. The method may include transmitting an STR mode command from the eNB to the UE instructing the UE to operate in an STR mode on the downlink centric resource when the determination is that the signal quality measurement is greater than the downlink centric measurement threshold. The method may include transmitting an STR mode command from the eNB to the UE instructing the UE to operate in a non STR mode on the downlink centric resource when the determination is that the signal quality measurement is less than the downlink centric measurement threshold. The DL UL ratio may be set by a wireless cellular network operator. The uplink centric measurement threshold or the downlink centric measurement threshold comprises a signal to interference and noise ratio SINR at the UE. The uplink centric measurement threshold or the downlink centric measurement threshold comprises a signal to interference ratio SIR at the UE. The uplink centric measurement threshold or the downlink centric measurement threshold comprises a signal noise ratio SNR at the UE. The uplink centric measurement threshold or the downlink centric measurement threshold is relative to interference from adjacent UEs. The method may be embodied on at least one non transitory machine readable storage medium having a plurality of instructions adapted to be executed to implement the method .

The computing device for instance may be used to reduce interference between BSs in a wireless cellular network operating with STR. For example the computing device may be used to form a downlink transmission and an uplink receive beam at a BS. The beam pattern may have predetermined mills that are formed over predetermined elevation angles to reduce interference with a proximate BS. The computing device may then be used to transmit and receive using the beam pattern from the BS. In this way transmission and reception may occur simultaneously using STR.

In particular the memory device may contain a set of modules that are executable by the processor s and data for the modules. Located in the memory device are the set of modules executable by the processor. The modules may execute the functions described earlier. A data store may also be located in the memory device for storing data related to the modules and other applications along with an operating system that is executable by the processor s .

Other applications may also be stored in the memory device and may be executable by the processor s . Components or modules discussed in this description that may be implemented in the form of software using high programming level languages that are compiled interpreted or executed using a hybrid of the methods.

The computing device may also have access to I O input output devices that are usable by the computing devices. An example of an I O device is a display screen that is available to display output from the computing devices. Other known I O devices may be used with the computing device as desired. Networking devices and similar communication devices may be included in the computing device. The networking devices may be wired or wireless networking devices that connect to the internet a LAN WAN or other computing network.

The components or modules that are shown as being stored in the memory device may be executed by the processor s . The term executable may mean a program file that is in a form that may be executed by a processor . For example a program in a higher level language may be compiled into machine code in a format that may be loaded into a random access portion of the memory device and executed by the processor or source code may be loaded by another executable program and interpreted to generate instructions in a random access portion of the memory to be executed by a processor. The executable program may be stored in any portion or component of the memory device . For example the memory device may be random access memory RAM read only memory ROM flash memory a solid state drive memory card a hard drive optical disk floppy disk magnetic tape or any other memory components.

The processor may represent multiple processors and the memory device may represent multiple memory units that operate in parallel to the processing circuits. This may provide parallel processing channels for the processes and data in the system. The local interface may be used as a network to facilitate communication between any of the multiple processors and multiple memories. The local interface may use additional systems designed for coordinating communication such as load balancing bulk data transfer and similar systems.

Various techniques or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives non transitory computer readable storage medium or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the various techniques. Circuitry can include hardware firmware program code executable code computer instructions and or software. A non transitory computer readable storage medium can be a computer readable storage medium that does not include signal. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device may include a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. The volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements may be a RAM EPROM flash drive optical drive magnetic hard drive solid state drive or other medium for storing electronic data. The node and wireless device may also include a transceiver module a counter module a processing module and or a clock module or timer module. One or more programs that may implement or utilize the various techniques described herein may use an application programming interface API reusable controls and the like. Such programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s may be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and combined with hardware implementations.

It should be understood that many of the functional units described in this specification have been labeled as modules in order to more particularly emphasize their implementation independence. For example a module may be implemented as a hardware circuit comprising custom VLSI circuits or gate arrays off the shelf semiconductors such as logic chips transistors or other discrete components. A module may also be implemented in programmable hardware devices such as field programmable gate arrays programmable array logic programmable logic devices or the like.

Modules may also be implemented in software for execution by various types of processors. An identified module of executable code may for instance comprise one or more physical or logical blocks of computer instructions which may for instance be organized as an object procedure or function. Nevertheless the executables of an identified module need not be physically located together but may comprise disparate instructions stored in different locations which when joined logically together comprise the module and achieve the stated purpose for the module.

Indeed a module of executable code may be a single instruction or many instructions and may even be distributed over several different code segments among different programs and across several memory devices. Similarly operational data may be identified and illustrated herein within modules and may be embodied in any suitable form and organized within any suitable type of data structure. The operational data may be collected as a single data set or may be distributed over different locations including over different storage devices and may exist at least partially merely as electronic signals on a system or network. The modules may be passive or active including agents operable to perform desired functions.

While the forgoing examples are illustrative of the principles of the present invention in one or more particular applications it will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that numerous modifications in form usage and details of implementation can be made without the exercise of inventive faculty and without departing from the principles and concepts of the invention. Accordingly it is not intended that the invention be limited except as by the claims set forth below.

