---

title: System and method of controlling interactive communication services by responding to user query with relevant information from content specific database
abstract: An electronic communication system is controlled by a content service provider to return relevant information from a content specific database in response to a user query. The content service provider compiles a plurality of content specific databases, each dedicated to a category of information of interest to the user. The user registers a user profile with the content service provider. A query, including the selected content specific database, is transmitted from the user to the content service provider. The selected content specific database is searched for the first level query within context of the user profile. A menu of matches is generated from the content specific database for the first level query. The menu is organized by relevance scores assigned to the matches based on correspondence to the first level query. The menu is transmitted from the content service provider through the electronic communication network to the user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09058408&OS=09058408&RS=09058408
owner: Eye Level Holdings, LLC
number: 09058408
owner_city: Scottsdale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130318
---
The present application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 766 720 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 452 765 filed Apr. 23 2010 which application is incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates in general to electronic communication systems and more particularly to a system and method of controlling interactive communication services organized to efficiently and systematically respond to user queries with relevant information from content specific databases.

People use electronic communications in virtually every phase of business and personal activities. The electronic communication is conducted with telecommunication devices e.g. computers and cellular telephones through the Internet and associated wired and wireless communication channels and pathways. For example electronic communication may involve sending and receiving email or text messages. While electronic communications makes the transfer of information relatively fast and easy finding specific information of interest can still be a challenging and time consuming process.

Consider a computer or cellular telephone user seeking information on a specific topic of interest. The user can conduct an Internet search using a web browser and search engine e.g. Google Bing or Yahoo. Most search engines maintain overviews of most if not all publically available Internet websites on their servers. The search engine conducts a search of its servers and returns matches or partial matches to a user query. The search results are displayed as a list of websites with potentially hundreds or thousands of hits each with a portion of the relevant text from the website matching the user query. The search engine servers typically do not contain a complete copy of the myriad of Internet websites due to the large volume of information. The user can select one website from the list and be directed by that specific website for further information. The user must then review the content of the selected website to find the information being sought.

As most users have experienced it may be necessary to review many different websites from the search engine listing to find the specific information of interest. Each Internet website is laid out and organized by an administrator of the website to convey information according to purposes or business plan of the sponsoring company or organization. The website is organized for the purpose of presenting information that the sponsor is intending to convey and typically does not attempt to integrate or correlate information from other websites. The website may not be organized in a manner which is conducive or optimized to resolve the user s query. If the first website selected from the search engine list does not yield the information of interest the user returns to the search engine listing and picks another website. The process of reviewing individual websites continues until the user is satisfied or gives up.

The logistics of finding information from mainstream Internet websites on a cellular telephone is particularly difficult due to the limited viewing area small font and images and manual dexterity needed to navigate what is typically formatted to be a large information space using a compact user interface. The information is difficult to see and requires substantial horizontal and vertical scrolling to comprehend the total website content. Web based searching and information retrieval by cellular telephone is still in its infancy.

A need exists to provide interactive communication services organized to efficiently and systematically respond to user queries with relevant information. Accordingly in one embodiment the present invention is a method of controlling access to a plurality of content specific databases through an electronic communication network comprising the steps of compiling a plurality of content specific databases by a content service provider with each content specific database dedicated to a category of information of interest to a user transmitting a first level query from the user through the electronic communication network to the content service provider searching one or more of the content specific databases for the first level query generating a first menu of matches from the content specific database for the first level query and transmitting the first menu from the content service provider through the electronic communication network to the user.

In another embodiment the present invention is a method of controlling access to a plurality of content specific databases through an electronic communication network comprising the steps of compiling a plurality of content specific databases by a content service provider transmitting a first level query from a user through the electronic communication network to the content service provider searching one or more the content specific databases for the first level query generating a first menu of matches from the content specific database for the first level query and transmitting the first menu from the content service provider through the electronic communication network to the user.

In another embodiment the present invention is a method of controlling access to a content specific database through an electronic communication network comprising the steps of transmitting a first level query from a user through the electronic communication network to a content service provider selecting a content specific database searching the selected content specific database for the first level query generating a first menu of matches from the content specific database for the first level query and transmitting the first menu from the content service provider through the electronic communication network to the user.

In another embodiment the present invention is a computer program product comprising computer readable program code embodied in a computer usable medium to implement a method for controlling access to a plurality of content specific databases through an electronic communication network comprising the steps of transmitting a first level query from a user through the electronic communication network to a content service provider selecting a content specific database searching the selected content specific database for the first level query generating a first menu of matches from the content specific database for the first level query and transmitting the first menu from the content service provider through the electronic communication network to the user.

The present invention is described in one or more embodiments in the following description with reference to the figures in which like numerals represent the same or similar elements. While the invention is described in terms of the best mode for achieving the invention s objectives it will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that it is intended to cover alternatives modifications and equivalents as may be included within the scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims and their equivalents as supported by the following disclosure and drawings.

The electronic communication network further includes content service provider in electronic communication with network over communication channel or link . Communication channel is bi directional and transmits data between content service provider and electronic communication network in a hard wired or wireless configuration. Content service provider retrieves relevant information from one or more content specific databases in response to query from the user.

Further detail of the computer systems used in electronic communication network is shown in as a simplified computer system for executing the software program used in the electronic communication process. Computer system is a general purpose computer including a central processing unit or microprocessor mass storage device or hard disk electronic memory display monitor and communication port . Communication port represents a modem high speed Ethernet link wireless or other electronic connection to transmit and receive input output I O data over communication link to electronic communication network . Computer system or server can be configured as shown for computer . Computer system and cellular telephone transmit and receives information and data over communication network . Other electronic devices can also transmit and receive information and data over communication network .

Computer systems and can be physically located in any location with access to a modem or communication link to network . For example computer or can be located in the user s home or business office. Alternatively computer or can be mobile and follow the user to any convenient location e.g. remote offices customer locations hotel rooms residences vehicles public places or other locales with electronic access to electronic communication network . Content service provider may use computer system or in its business office.

Each of the computers runs application software and computer programs which can be used to display user interface screens execute the functionality and provide the electronic communication features as described below. The application software includes a local email application Internet browser word processor spreadsheet and the like. In one embodiment the screens and functionality come from the application software i.e. the electronic communication runs directly on computer system . Alternatively the screens and functions are provided remotely from one or more websites on servers within electronic communication network .

The software is originally provided on computer readable media such as compact disks CDs external drive or other mass storage medium. Alternatively the software is downloaded from electronic links such as the host or vendor website. The software is installed onto the computer system hard drive and or electronic memory and is accessed and controlled by the computer s operating system. Software updates are also electronically available on mass storage medium or downloadable from the host or vendor website. The software as provided on the computer readable media or downloaded from electronic links represents a computer program product containing computer readable program code embodied in a computer program medium.

The electronic communication network can be used for a variety of business commercial personal educational and government purposes or functions. The user makes a query to content service provider . The content service provider searches its content specific databases and returns relevant information based on the query to the user. For example user using cellular telephone can communicate with content service provider operating on computer and user using computer can communicate with content service provider operating on computer . The electronic communication network is an integral part of a business commercial professional educational government or social network involving the interaction of people processes and commerce.

The user first creates an account and profile with content service provider . The account set up involves a registration process wherein the user accesses website operated by content service provider and provides data to complete the registration and activation process as shown in . The user can access website by computer or cellular telephone by typing the uniform resource locator URL for website or by clicking on a banner located on another website which re directs the user to predetermined landing pages for website . The data provided by the user to content service provider may include name in block address in block phone number in block email address in block content specific database of interest in block and other information and credentials necessary to establish a profile and identity for the user. Content server provider maintains a number of specific databases that the user subscribes to access either individually or in combination. For example the content specific database may be linked to occupational topics financial markets social networking political organizations music entertainment horoscopes games food news weather literature coupons or other special interests just to name a few. The user profile can also contain employer occupation financial data interests associations religion marital status medical conditions and the like. Other useful information can be extracted from the source banner which directed the user to website originally e.g. the user was browsing a rhythm and blues music website when selecting the banner for website . The user can elect to join one or more user groups with other users with similar interests or demographics. The user may of course elect not to provide certain information which may affect authorization status and ability to receive communications from content service provider . The user agrees to the terms and conditions of conducting electronic communication through content service provider in block .

Content service provider can use a double opt in sequence for additional validation and security. Once the user agrees to the terms and conditions a pin number or validation code is sent as a text message to the phone number provided in block or email address provided in block . The user confirms the registration by transmitting the validation code back to content service provider . Once validated the user s profile is stored and maintained with content service provider . Within content service provider the user is primarily identified by his or her phone number. The phone number uniquely identifies the user and can be used for communications and billing purposes. The user can access and update his profile by entering username and password in login screen as shown in . The user name can be the phone number or email address and the password assigned to or selected by the user. The user can subscribe and unsubscribe to content specific databases change personal information and otherwise update the profile. Accordingly the user s profile remains secure and confidential within content service provider .

Content specific databases are each compiled from a variety of public and private data sources to integrate and correlate information dedicated to a specific topic or category of interest to the user. For example content specific database is compiled by regularly reviewing a number of publically available Internet websites directed to financial markets as well as other public and private data sources related to financial information and organizing the information in a format that is conducive and optimized to respond to user queries. Content service provider organizes content specific database for the purpose of efficiently and systematically responding to a user query with relevant information as described below. Content specific database is further organized and updated based on historical user queries user profiles user groups aggregation data and other user input. Temporally popular topics are given priority in the search algorithm. If most historical user queries are directed to consumer interest rates or the user has expressed interest in consumer interest rates in his or her user profile then a user query to current rates will return matches corresponding to the consumer interest rates sub topic of financial markets with higher priority and relevance than say bond discount rates. Content service provider continuously reviews user profiles learns from historical user queries updates database contents and adjusts the search algorithm to improve its ability to respond to user queries with relevant information.

As another example content specific database is compiled by regularly reviewing a number of publically available Internet websites directed to music as well as other public and private data sources related to music and organizing the information in a format conducive and optimized to respond to user queries. Content service provider organizes content specific database for the purpose of efficiently and systematically responding to a user query with relevant information as described below. Content specific database is further organized and updated based on historical user queries user profiles user groups aggregation data and other user input. Temporally popular topics are given priority in the search algorithm. If most historical user queries are directed to performing artists or the user has expressed interest in performing artists in his or her user profile then a user query to ice tea will return matches corresponding to the performing artists sub topic of music e.g. popular rapper Ice T with higher priority and relevance than say song lyrics that mention the drink ice tea. Content service provider continuously reviews user profiles learns from historical user queries updates database contents and adjusts the search algorithm to improve its ability to respond to user queries with relevant information.

As yet another example content specific database is compiled by regularly reviewing a number of publically available Internet websites directed to food as well as other public and private data sources related to food and organizing the information in a format conducive and optimized to respond to user queries. Content service provider organizes content specific database for the purpose of efficiently and systematically responding to a user query with relevant information as described below. Content specific database is further organized and updated based on historical user queries user profiles user groups aggregation data and other user input. Temporally popular topics are given priority in the search algorithm. If most historical user queries are directed to recipes or the user has expressed interest in food recipes in his or her user profile then a user query to beef will return matches corresponding to the recipes sub topic of food with higher priority and relevance than say health concerns about beef. Content service provider continuously reviews user profiles learns from historical user queries updates database contents and adjusts the search algorithm to improve its ability to respond to user queries with relevant information. Content specific databases and are compiled in a similar manner.

Consider an example where the user wants to make a query to content service provider . If operating from computer the user logs in with user name and password. A query composition webpage or window is presented for the user on computer such as shown in . The user composes the first level query in block and selects one or more content specific databases or vertical subjects to be searched in block based on the stated query from block . The query typically contains text but may also contain figures pictures video and any other data content used on the Internet. In this case the query is beef and the vertical subject is food in content specific database . The user can also identify one or more specific content specific databases to exclude from the search. When the user clicks search or send button the query with selected content specific database is transmitted to content service provider for search and response with information relevant to the first level query.

If operating from cellular telephone the user is identified by the embedded cell phone number. The first level query is transmitted to content service provider as short message service SMS text. Each content specific database maintained by content service provider can be assigned a short code i.e. numeric address or identifier for ease of typing and space efficiency SMS text limited to 160 characters . The user texts beef to short code 77888 on cellular telephone to query beef for the vertical subject of food in content specific database to content service provider . shows cellular telephone with the query embodied in SMS text presented on cell phone display to be transmitted to content service provider . Short code 77888 is an address to content database containing the vertical subject food. 

The first level query is received by content service provider on computer system through direct communication or through an application programming interface API . The query contains at least the user s phone number and search text or keywords entered in block or as SMS text. The phone number is derived from the user login if operating from computer or from the identifier of cellular telephone if the query is transmitted through electronic communication network by SMS text. The query may also contain or identify a selected content specific database. Texting the first level query beef to short code 77888 designates content specific database by the short code number. If the query does not include a selected content specific database then the user profile is accessed to determine which content specific database s the user has subscribed to during registration or updated at a later time.

Content service provider conducts a search within the selected content specific database. A search criteria is formulated with focus on the specific query transmitted by the user and selected content specific database. In the present case the keyword beef is linked to the vertical subject food in content specific database based on query composition window from computer or the keyword and short code from cellular telephone . Content service provider also accesses the user profile in compiling the search criteria. For example content service provider may also have information based on user profile that the user is an amateur chef and knowledgeable about specialized food preparation or conversely that the user has limited cooking skills and prefers simple recipes. The user profile may also specify certain food preferences or food avoidances based on taste palate health habits religious beliefs or medical conditions such as diabetes high cholesterol or food allergy.

The search of content specific database using the search criteria returns one or more matches to the user query. Each match is assigned a relevance score based on correspondence to the first level query and user profile . The relevance score can range from 0 minimal or no relevance to 1 highest relevance . The relevance is computed by analyzing the closeness of the match in character by character comparison between the keyword and database entry as well as values stored in the database corresponding to the preferences contained in the user profile. The closer the match in the character by character comparison the higher the relevance score. The keyword and database entry comparison also takes into account partial words abbreviations acronyms synonyms and word equivalents. For example beef is equated to red meat angus or steak. A stored value indicating a complex recipe preparation lowers the relevance score for the user wanting simple dishes. A stored value indicating low sugar content of the ingredients for the recipe increases the relevance score for a person with diabetes.

The number of matches is in part related to the specificity of the keyword s in the first level query. A more generic keyword returns more matches a more specific keyword or group of words returns fewer matches. The matches are prioritized by the relevance score grouped in a menu and returned to the user. The menu entries can be text and or graphical images representative of the match found in the content specific database. shows menu with relevant search results returned to the user and displayed on cellular telephone . Each entry in menu is assigned a reference number. For the keyword beef searched in the vertical subject food of content specific database the corresponding menu entries as determined by the search algorithm are beef appetizers assigned reference number 1 beef entrees assigned reference number 2 and beef international recipes assigned reference number 3. While menu is shown with three entries for simplicity in presentation the menu typically has many more entries. The number of entries in the menu is dependent on the display area available to the user. Cellular telephone has significantly less display area than computer .

The user receives menu from content service provider for display on cellular telephone . The user can select one of the menu entries in menu for additional refined searching. In this case the user selects beef international recipes and texts 3 for reference number 3 to short code 77888. Content service provider receives the text from the user.

Content service provider recognizes the text 3 received from the user as a second level query because of the recent first level query for beef. A new first level query can be distinguished from a second level query as the first level query contains a new keyword whereas a second level query contains a reference number. In the second level query content service provider conducts another search within content specific database for the selected reference number i.e. reference number 3 for beef international recipes. As described in the first level search content service provider also accesses the user profile in compiling the search criteria and running the search algorithm.

The search of content specific database using the second level query returns one or more matches. Each match is assigned a relevance score similar to the first level search. The matches are prioritized by the relevance score grouped in a menu and returned to the user. The menu entries can be text and or graphical images representative of the match found in the content specific database. shows menu with relevant search results returned to the user and displayed on cellular telephone . Each entry in menu is assigned a reference number. For the second level query beef international recipes searched in the vertical subject food of content specific database the corresponding menu entries as determined by the search algorithm are Mexico assigned reference number 1 Italian assigned reference number 2 and Greek assigned reference number 3.

The user receives menu from content service provider for display on cellular telephone . The user can select one of the menu entries in menu for additional refined searching. In this case the user selects Italian and texts 2 for reference number 2 to short code 77888. Content service provider receives the text from the user.

Content service provider recognizes the text 2 received from the user as a third level query because of the recent first level and second level queries related to beef and beef international recipes. In the third level query content service provider conducts another search within content specific database for the selected reference number i.e. reference number 2 for Italian. As described in the first level search content service provider also accesses the user profile in compiling the search criteria and running the search algorithm.

The search of content specific database using the third level query returns one or more matches. Each match is assigned a relevance score similar to the first level search. The matches are prioritized by the relevance score grouped in a menu and returned to the user. The menu entries can be text and or graphical images representative of the match found in the content specific database. shows menu with relevant search results returned to the user and displayed on cellular telephone . Each entry in menu is assigned a reference number. For the third level query Italian searched in the vertical subject food of content specific database the corresponding menu entries as determined by the search algorithm are Italian style meatloaf assigned reference number 1 Capraccio assigned reference number 2 and Braciola Di Manzo assigned reference number 3.

The user receives menu from content service provider for display on cellular telephone . The user can select one of the menu entries in menu for additional refined searching. In this case the user selects Italian style meatloaf and texts 1 for reference number 1 to short code 77888. Content service provider receives the text from the user.

Content service provider recognizes the text 1 received from the user as a fourth level query because of the recent first level second level and third level queries related to beef beef international recipes and Italian. In the fourth level query content service provider conducts another search within content specific database for the selected reference number i.e. reference number 1 for Italian style meatloaf. As described in the first level search content service provider also accesses the user profile in compiling the search criteria and running the search algorithm.

The search of content specific database using the fourth level query returns one or more matches. Each match is assigned a relevance score similar to the first level search. The matches are prioritized by the relevance score grouped in a menu and returned to the user. The menu entries can be text and or graphical images representative of the match found in the content specific database. shows menu with relevant search results returned to the user and displayed on cellular telephone . Each entry in menu is assigned a reference number. For the fourth level query Italian style meatloaf searched in the vertical subject food of content specific database the corresponding menu entries as determined by the search algorithm are the ingredients 1 pound ground beef assigned reference number 1 1 diced onion assigned reference number 2 2 teaspoons garlic assigned reference number 3 2 tablespoons extra virgin olive oil assigned reference number 4 1 seeded and diced red pepper assigned reference number 5 and 2 eggs assigned reference number 6. Menu contains more entries for the ingredients of Italian style meatloaf. The user can text m to short code 77888 for more entries in the present menu.

The user receives menu from content service provider for display on cellular telephone . The systematic process of query search review and further selection of menu entries continues until the user has the needed information. At any level query the user can text n for next level query or b for back in previous level query. The search results are stored with content service provider for a period of time to allow the user to continue the search sequence at a later time.

Content service provider exercises control over electronic communication network by providing interactive communication between the users and content specific databases as shown in . For example the user makes a first level query by SMS texting a keyword using a short code to content service provider . Content service provider conducts a search based on the first level query as well as the user profile in the selected content specific database and returns a response organized in a menu format by relevance of the search results of the first level query. If the user wants to drill down further into a particular entry in the menu he or she makes a second level query by SMS texting the reference number for the selected entry to the short code associated with the selected content specific database. Content service provider conducts a search based on the second level query as well as the user profile in the content specific database and returns a response organized in a menu format by relevance of the search results for the second level query. The systematic process of query search review and further selection of menu entries continues until the user has the needed information. Accordingly content service provider controls interactive communication services which are organized to efficiently and systematically respond to user queries for example using SMS texting with relevant information from content specific databases.

Consider another example where the user wants to make a query to content service provider . In this case the user texts mesa to short code 88999 on cellular telephone for the vertical subject of weather in content specific database . Content service provider conducts a search for the first level query mesa within content specific database . Content service provider also accesses the user profile in compiling the search criteria and running the search algorithm. For example mesa could be the user s home address.

The search of content specific database using the first level query returns one or more matches. Each match is assigned a relevance score. The matches are prioritized by the relevance score grouped in a menu and returned to the user. The menu entries can be text and or graphical images representative of the match found in the content specific database. shows menu with relevant search results returned to the user and displayed on cellular telephone . Each entry in menu is assigned a reference number. For the first level query mesa searched in the vertical subject weather of content specific database the corresponding menu entries as determined by the search algorithm are Mesa Ariz. assigned reference number 1 Costa Mesa Calif. assigned reference number 2 and Mesa Wash. assigned reference number 3.

The user receives menu from content service provider for display on cellular telephone . The user can select one of the menu entries in menu for additional refined searching. In this case the user selects Costa Mesa Calif. and texts 2 for reference number 2 to short code 88999. Content service provider receives the text from the user.

Content service provider recognizes the text 2 received from the user as a second level query because of the recent first level query related to mesa. In the second level query content service provider conducts another search within content specific database for the selected reference number i.e. reference number 2 for Costa Mesa Calif. As described in the first level search content service provider also accesses the user profile in compiling the search criteria and running the search algorithm.

The search of content specific database using the second level query returns one or more matches. Each match is assigned a relevance score similar to the first level search. The matches are prioritized by the relevance score grouped in a menu and returned to the user. The menu entries can be text and or graphical images representative of the match found in the content specific database. shows menu with relevant search results returned to the user and displayed on cellular telephone . Each entry in menu is assigned a reference number. For the second level query Costa Mesa Calif. searched in the vertical subject weather of content specific database the corresponding menu entries as determined by the search algorithm are Today s high and low temperatures assigned reference number 1 Current conditions assigned reference number 2 Tomorrow s forecast assigned reference number 3 and Five day forecast assigned reference number 4.

The user receives menu from content service provider for display on cellular telephone . The user can select one of the menu entries in menu for additional refined searching. In this case the user selects Tomorrow s forecast and texts 3 for reference number 3 to short code 88999. Content service provider receives the text from the user.

Content service provider recognizes the text 3 received from the user as a third level query because of the recent first level and second level queries related to mesa. In the third level query content service provider conducts another search within content specific database for the selected reference number i.e. reference number 3 for Tomorrow s forecasts. As described in the first level search content service provider also accesses the user profile in compiling the search criteria and running the search algorithm.

The search of content specific database using the third level query returns one or more matches. Each match is assigned a relevance score similar to the first level search. The matches are prioritized by the relevance score grouped in a menu and returned to the user. The menu entries can be text and or graphical images representative of the match found in the content specific database. shows menu with relevant search results returned to the user and displayed on cellular telephone . Each entry in menu is assigned a reference number. For the third level query Tomorrow s forecasts searched in the vertical subject weather of content specific database the corresponding menu entries as determined by the search algorithm are High and low temperatures assigned reference number 1 Precipitation assigned reference number 2 and Sunrise and sunset assigned reference number 3.

The user receives menu from content service provider for display on cellular telephone . The systematic process of query search review and further selection of menu entries continues until the user has the needed information. At any level query the user can text n for next recipe m for more entries b for back in level query. Thus the user can move between menus as need. The interactive communication service is organized to efficiently and systematically respond to user queries with relevant information from the content specific databases.

In another embodiment the user texts gta4 to short code 88777 on cellular telephone for the vertical subject of games in content specific database . Content service provider performs an acronym look up for gta4 within content specific database . The keyword gta4 corresponds to the game Grand Theft Auto IV. Content service provider conducts a search for the first level query Grand Theft Auto IV within content specific database . Content service provider also accesses the user profile in compiling the search criteria and running the search algorithm.

The search of content specific database using the first level query returns one or more matches. Each match is assigned a relevance score. The matches are prioritized by the relevance score grouped in a menu and returned to the user. The menu entries can be text and or graphical images representative of the match found in the content specific database. shows menu with relevant search results returned to the user and displayed on cellular telephone . Each entry in menu is assigned a reference number. For the first level query Grand Theft Auto IV searched in the vertical subject games of content specific database the corresponding menu entries as determined by the search algorithm are Play Station 3 assigned reference number 1 XBox assigned reference number 2 and Xbox 360 assigned reference number 3.

The user receives menu from content service provider for display on cellular telephone . The user can select one of the menu entries in menu for additional refined searching. In this case the user selects Play Station 3 and texts 1 for reference number 1 to short code 88777. Content service provider receives the text from the user.

Content service provider recognizes the text 1 received from the user as a second level query because of the recent first level query related to Grand Theft Auto IV. In the second level query content service provider conducts another search within content specific database for the selected reference number i.e. reference number 1 for Play Station 3. As described in the first level search content service provider also accesses the user profile in compiling the search criteria and running the search algorithm.

The search of content specific database using the second level query returns one or more matches. Each match is assigned a relevance score similar to the first level search. The matches are prioritized by the relevance score grouped in a menu and returned to the user. The menu entries can be text and or graphical images representative of the match found in the content specific database. shows menu with relevant search results returned to the user and displayed on cellular telephone . Each entry in menu is assigned a reference number. For the second level query Play Station 3 searched in the vertical subject games of content specific database the corresponding menu entries as determined by the search algorithm are Unlimited fuel with graphical image assigned reference number 1 Unlimited speed with graphical image assigned reference number 2 Indestructible auto with graphical image assigned reference number 3 and Weapons with graphical image assigned reference number 4.

The user receives menu from content service provider for display on cellular telephone . The user can select one of the menu entries in menu for additional refined searching. The systematic process of query search review and further selection of menu entries continues until the user has the needed information. At any level query the user can text n for next entry m for more entries or b for back in level query.

The user can set preferences with user profile or as part of the first level search criteria to respond with search results from the content specific database at regular intervals or at specific later times particularly for information that frequently changes. For example the user may want regular weather updates during adverse conditions financial market updates or social networking updates. The user can request aggregate information based on popular topics or requests from other users within the user group or with similar interests from the content specific databases e.g. updates from the gaming community. Content service provider automatically texts the user with relevant updates as set by the preferences. The interactive communication service is organized to efficiently and systematically respond to user queries with relevant information from content specific databases.

While one or more embodiments of the present invention have been illustrated in detail the skilled artisan will appreciate that modifications and adaptations to those embodiments may be made without departing from the scope of the present invention as set forth in the following claims.

