---

title: Subscriber identity module virtualization
abstract: A mobile communication device. The device comprises a first wireless communication identity stored in a first partition of the memory, wherein a wireless communication identity comprises a network access identity, a list of wireless communication systems to which the device is authorized to attach, a rule set for prioritizing among the wireless communication systems identified in the list, and a table of device rules. The device further comprises an application stored in the memory that, when executed by the processor, detects a triggering event and in response to the triggering event changes the active wireless communication identity of the mobile communication device to one of the wireless communication identities stored in the partitions of the memory and applies device rules associated with the wireless communication identity, where the mobile communication device conducts wireless communication via the radio transceiver based on the active communication identity and the associated device rules.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09161325&OS=09161325&RS=09161325
owner: Sprint Communications Company L.P.
number: 09161325
owner_city: Overland Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131120
---
Mobile communication devices may be configured for operating in different ways or in different network conditions by storing settings values or files in the device. Some of the stored settings may be one or more kinds of roaming lists e.g. a priority ordered list of wireless systems to select and attempt to attach a wireless link to. Mobile communication devices may be used by a user as a business device for example in support of his role as an employee of a corporation as a personal communication device for example in support of his role as a private individual. Mobile communication devices may be configured to work as different membership cards in different environments. Mobile communication devices may be configured or provisioned to perform machine to machine communication transactions for example by a radio communication session between the mobile communication device and a door scanner such as to gain access to an office building or to a hotel room.

In an embodiment a mobile communication device is disclosed. The mobile communication device comprises a radio transceiver a non transitory memory integral with the mobile communication device wherein the memory is apportioned into a plurality of partitions and a first wireless communication identity stored in a first partition of the memory wherein a wireless communication identity comprises a network access identity a list of wireless communication systems to which the device is authorized to attach a rule set for prioritizing among the wireless communication systems identified in the list and a table of device rules. The mobile communication device further comprises a second wireless communication identity stored in a second partition of the memory wherein the second wireless communication identity is different from the first wireless communication identity a processor and an application stored in the memory that when executed by the processor detects a triggering event and in response to the triggering event changes the active wireless communication identity of the mobile communication device to one of the wireless communication identities stored in the partitions of the memory and applies device rules associated with the wireless communication identity where the mobile communication device conducts wireless communication via the radio transceiver based on the active communication identity and the associated device rules.

In an embodiment a method for virtualizing a subscriber identity module SIM on a mobile communication device is disclosed. The method comprises allocating wireless communication identities into a secure portion of a memory of the mobile communication device storing each wireless communication identity into a single partition in the memory of the mobile communication device detecting a triggering event and activating or dynamically installing and activating one of the wireless communication identities stored in the partitions of the memory in response to the triggering event where the mobile communication device conducts wireless communication via the radio transceiver based on the active communication identity.

In an embodiment a method of virtualizing a subscriber identity module on a mobile communication device is disclosed. The method comprises allocating and storing one wireless communication identity into a single partition in a memory of the mobile communication device storing wireless communication configurations associated with each wireless communication identity into the corresponding partition of the memory on the mobile communication device and storing device rules associated with each wireless communication identity into the corresponding partition of the memory on the mobile communication device. The method further comprises sending the wireless communication identity corresponding wireless communication configurations device rules and or associated user data to a remote server and fetching the wireless communication identity corresponding wireless communication configurations device rules and or associated user data from the remote server under predefined circumstances.

These and other features will be more clearly understood from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings and claims.

It should be understood at the outset that although illustrative implementations of one or more embodiments are illustrated below the disclosed systems and methods may be implemented using any number of techniques whether currently known or not yet in existence. The disclosure should in no way be limited to the illustrative implementations drawings and techniques illustrated below but may be modified within the scope of the appended claims along with their full scope of equivalents.

Problems may be caused by a mobile communication device that is associated with one single wireless communication identity while the user desires more than one wireless communication identity for example the ability to smoothly switch among different wireless communication identities. The problems may result from the physical subscriber identity module SIM cards. For example a current subscriber identity module card contains one wireless communication identity. When a user desires different wireless communication identities with different wireless carriers different locations different user preferences or different services a single subscriber identity module card with a single wireless communication identity may not be satisfactory. The present disclosure teaches a system and method for installing wireless communication identities into a virtualized subscriber identity module on the mobile communication device and activating certain wireless communication identity under predefined circumstances.

For example wireless communication identities may be allocated and stored into different partitions of a secure portion in a memory of a mobile communication device through an application on the mobile communication device. One wireless communication identity is installed into a single partition of the memory. When a triggering event is detected by the application on the mobile communication device an optimal or preferred wireless communication identity is selected and activated. A triggering event may be user input the change of locations the change of wireless communication services providers a radio signal incident a scheduled event or another triggering event. The application may redetermine or recalculate operational run time parameters of the mobile communication device based on the activated wireless communication identity and store these operational run time parameters in the memory of the mobile communication device. The application may reset the radio transceiver to bring into effect the recalculated operational run time parameters. The application may then update the user data associated with the wireless communication identity for example user preferences service enrollment application enablement customization parameters and or a contact list. Corresponding applications may then operate with updated user data afterwards.

A trusted security zone provides chipsets with a hardware root of trust a secure execution environment for applications and secure access to peripherals. A hardware root of trust means the chipset should only execute programs intended by the device manufacturer or vendor and resists software and physical attacks and therefore remains trusted to provide the intended level of security. The chipset architecture is designed to promote a programmable environment that allows the confidentiality and integrity of assets to be protected from specific attacks. Trusted security zone capabilities are becoming features in both wireless and fixed hardware architecture designs. Providing the trusted security zone in the main mobile device chipset and protecting the hardware root of trust removes the need for separate secure hardware to authenticate the device or user. To ensure the integrity of the applications requiring trusted data such as a mobile financial services application the trusted security zone also provides the secure execution environment where only trusted applications can operate safe from attacks. Security is further promoted by restricting access of non trusted applications to peripherals such as data inputs and data outputs while a trusted application is running in the secure execution environment. In an embodiment the trusted security zone may be conceptualized as hardware assisted security.

A complete trusted execution environment TEE may be implemented through the use of the trusted security zone hardware and software architecture. The trusted execution environment is an execution environment that is parallel to the execution environment of the main mobile device operating system. The trusted execution environment and or the trusted security zone may provide a base layer of functionality and or utilities for use of applications that may execute in the trusted security zone. For example in an embodiment trust tokens may be generated by the base layer of functionality and or utilities of the trusted execution environment and or trusted security zone for use in trusted end to end communication links to document a continuity of trust of the communications. For more details on establishing trusted end to end communication links relying on hardware assisted security see U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 532 588 filed Jun. 25 2012 entitled End to end Trusted Communications Infrastructure by Leo Michael McRoberts et al. which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. Through standardization of application programming interfaces APIs the trusted execution environment becomes a place to which scalable deployment of secure services can be targeted. A device which has a chipset that has a trusted execution environment on it may exist in a trusted services environment where devices in the trusted services environment are trusted and protected against attacks. The trusted execution environment can be implemented on mobile phones and tablets as well as extending to other trusted devices such as personal computers servers sensors medical devices point of sale terminals industrial automation handheld terminals automotive etc.

The trusted security zone is implemented by partitioning all of the hardware and software resources of the mobile device into two partitions a secure partition and a normal partition. Placing sensitive resources in the secure partition can protect against possible attacks on those resources. For example resources such as trusted software applications may run in the secure partition and have access to hardware peripherals such as a touchscreen or a secure location in memory. Less secure peripherals such as wireless radios may be disabled completely while the secure partition is being accessed while other peripherals may only be accessed from the secure partition. While the secure partition is being accessed through the trusted execution environment the main mobile operating system in the normal partition is suspended and applications in the normal partition are prevented from accessing the secure peripherals and data. This prevents corrupted applications or malware applications from breaking the trust of the device.

The trusted security zone is implemented by partitioning the hardware and software resources to exist in a secure subsystem which is not accessible to components outside the secure subsystem. The trusted security zone is built into the processor architecture at the time of manufacture through hardware logic present in the trusted security zone which enables a perimeter boundary between the secure partition and the normal partition. The trusted security zone may only be manipulated by those with the proper credential and in an embodiment may not be added to the chip after it is manufactured. Software architecture to support the secure partition may be provided through a dedicated secure kernel running trusted applications. Trusted applications are independent secure applications which can be accessed by normal applications through an application programming interface in the trusted execution environment on a chipset that utilizes the trusted security zone.

In an embodiment the normal partition applications run on a first virtual processor and the secure partition applications run on a second virtual processor. Both virtual processors may run on a single physical processor executing in a time sliced fashion removing the need for a dedicated physical security processor. Time sliced execution comprises switching contexts between the two virtual processors to share processor resources based on tightly controlled mechanisms such as secure software instructions or hardware exceptions. The context of the currently running virtual processor is saved the context of the virtual processor being switched to is restored and processing is restarted in the restored virtual processor. Time sliced execution protects the trusted security zone by stopping the execution of the normal partition while the secure partition is executing.

The two virtual processors context switch via a processor mode called monitor mode when changing the currently running virtual processor. The mechanisms by which the processor can enter monitor mode from the normal partition are tightly controlled. The entry to monitor mode can be triggered by software executing a dedicated instruction the Secure Monitor Call SMC instruction or by a subset of the hardware exception mechanisms such as hardware interrupts which can be configured to cause the processor to switch into monitor mode. The software that executes within monitor mode then saves the context of the running virtual processor and switches to the secure virtual processor.

The trusted security zone runs a separate operating system that is not accessible to the device users. For security purposes the trusted security zone is not open to users for installing applications which means users do not have access to install applications in the trusted security zone. This prevents corrupted applications or malware applications from executing powerful instructions reserved to the trusted security zone and thus preserves the trust of the device. The security of the system is achieved at least in part by partitioning the hardware and software resources of the mobile phone so they exist in one of two partitions the secure partition for the security subsystem and the normal partition for everything else. Placing the trusted security zone in the secure partition and restricting access from the normal partition protects against software and basic hardware attacks. Hardware logic ensures that no secure partition resources can be accessed by the normal partition components or applications. A dedicated secure partition operating system runs in a virtual processor separate from the normal partition operating system that likewise executes in its own virtual processor. Users may install applications on the mobile device which may execute in the normal partition operating system described above. The trusted security zone runs a separate operating system for the secure partition that is installed by the mobile device manufacturer or vendor and users are not able to install new applications in or alter the contents of the trusted security zone.

Turning now to a communication system is described. In an embodiment the system comprises a plurality of mobile communication devices . The mobile communication device may comprise a radio transceiver a processor and a memory . The memory may comprise an application and a trusted security zone that may be apportioned into a plurality of partitions a first partition a second partition a third partition or any number of other partitions. Each partition may comprise a wireless communication identity for example the first partition with a first wireless communication identity the second partition with a second wireless communication identity the third partition with a third wireless communication identity or any number of other partitions with another corresponding wireless communication identity. The mobile communication device is configured to use the radio transceiver to establish a wireless communication link with a base transceiver station BTS and the base transceiver station provides communications connectivity of the mobile communication device to a network . A first server a second server and a third server or any number of other servers may also have access to the network . The network may comprise any combination of private and public networks.

It is understood that the system may comprise any number of mobile communication devices and any number of base transceiver stations . The collectivity of base transceiver stations may be said to comprise a radio access network in that these base transceiver stations may provide a radio communication link to the mobile communication devices to provide access to the network . The radio access network may be abstracted in different ways and may comprise in addition to the base transceiver stations servers and data stores such as home location registers HLRs or servers that implement the functionality of home location registers visitor location registers VLRs or servers that implement the functionality of visitor location registers base station controllers BSCs mobile switching centers MSCs and other network nodes that are specifically associated with providing wireless access and connectivity to the mobile communication devices .

The radio transceiver may communicate with the base transceiver station using any of a variety of wireless communication protocols including a code division multiple access CDMA wireless communication protocol a global system for mobile communication GSM wireless communication protocol a long term evolution LTE wireless communication protocol a world wide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX wireless communication protocol or another wireless communication protocol. The mobile communication device may be any of a mobile phone a personal digital assistant PDA a media player a wireless enabled computer or other mobile communication device. In an embodiment the mobile communication device may have other components not shown such as a near field communication NFC radio transceiver a wireless local area network WLAN radio transceiver or other components.

In an embodiment the trusted security zone is more than just a segment of memory. The trusted security zone may also have a dimension of processing. The trusted security zone may provide the secure execution environment for trusted applications where only trusted applications may operate safe from attacks. The trusted security zone may be implemented by partitioning both hardware and software resources of the mobile communication device into two segments a secure portion segment and a normal portion segment. The secure segment may be implemented by a distinct separate or dedicated physical processor usually the first processor from the processor by which the normal segment may be implemented usually the second processor. Alternatively the secure segment may be implemented by a distinct separate or dedicated virtual processor from the virtual processor by which the normal segment may be implemented. In an embodiment the hardware segmentation of the trusted security zone and the software installation of the trusted security zone may enable a trusted execution environment on the mobile communication device . The trusted execution environment may be included integrated within an application processor on the mobile communication device at the chip manufacturer.

The trusted security zone may be apportioned into different partitions to store wireless communication identities. The partitions may not necessarily be created inside the trusted security zone as shown in . In an embodiment the partitions to store wireless communication identities may be created within a secure part of the mobile communication device . For example a physical subscriber identity module card may be apportioned into partitions to store the wireless communication identities. As another example a memory of the mobile communication device may be apportioned into partitions to store the wireless communication identities. The limit of the maximum number of partitions to store the wireless communication identities may be determined by the total memory allocated for the wireless communication identities. The memory allocated for the wireless communication identities may comprise internal memory and file memory. Partitions are not necessarily pieces of memory of the same size. Alternatively partitions for different wireless communication identities may be of different sizes. For example the first partition may be larger in size than the second partition and the third partition may be the smallest in size among the three partitions and .

In an embodiment the trusted security zone may not be present and a memory of the mobile communication device may be used to store the multiple virtual subscriber identity modules. In an embodiment the multiple virtual subscriber identity modules may be stored in a carrier partition of the memory of the mobile communication device . In an embodiment the carrier partition of memory of the mobile communication device may be sub divided into a plurality of sub partitions each sub partition allocated for a different virtual subscriber identity module. The carrier memory partition may be provided by the operating system of the mobile communication device . For example the operating system may restrict access to a system memory partition exclusively to users providing a system memory partition password for example a system password known to an original equipment manufacturer of the mobile communication device the operating system may restrict access to the carrier memory partition exclusively to users providing a carrier memory partition password for example a carrier password known to a telecommunications service carrier and the operating system may allow access to a user memory partition substantially without restriction.

Access to the trusted security zone may be contingent on providing a master trusted security zone key for example access to configure or add trusted security zone partitions. Access to configured trusted security zone partitions may be authorized by presenting an access key for example a sub zone key or a trusted security zone partition key associated with the subject trusted security zone partition. Said in other words a first sub zone key may be used to authorize access to the first trusted security zone partition a second sub zone key may be used to authorize access to the second trusted security zone partition and a third sub zone key may be used to authorize access to the third trusted security zone partition . The first sub zone key the second sub zone key and the third sub zone key may each be different from each other. For more details on trusted security zone segments and sub zone keys see U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 571 348 filed Aug. 10 2012 entitled Systems and Methods for Provisioning and Using Multiple Trusted Security Zones on an Electronic Device by Stephen J. Bye et al. which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

In an embodiment the first trusted security zone partition may store a first wireless communication identity the second trusted security zone partition may store a second wireless communication identity and the third trusted security zone partition may store a third wireless communication identity . The wireless communication identities may be referred to as the first ID the second ID and the third ID . While the description below is written based on an implementation using the trusted security zone it is understood that the teachings of the present disclosure may also be used for wireless communication identities stored in partitions or in portions of memory outside of a trusted security zone.

A wireless communication identity for example the first wireless communication identity the second wireless communication identity or the third wireless communication identity may be a personal wireless communication identity a business wireless communication identity a production wireless communication identity a testing wireless communication identity wireless communication identities for different wireless communication providers wireless communication identities for different reward membership a wireless communication identity for a mobile wallet or another wireless communication identity. For example a personal wireless communication identity may be activated when personal wireless communication is desired on the mobile communication device and a business wireless communication identity may be activated when business wireless communication is desired on the mobile communication device . A testing wireless communication identity may be activated on the mobile communication device in a testing environment and a production wireless communication identity may be activated on the mobile communication device in a production environment so that no specific testing mobile communication devices different from production devices may need to be purchased. Additionally a wireless communication identity associated with a wireless communications service provider may be activated on the mobile communication device when the wireless communications service is preferred and another wireless communication identity associated with another wireless communications service provider may be activated on the mobile communication device when the other wireless communications service is preferred.

The wireless communication identity comprises information that promotes conducting wireless communications. The wireless communication identity comprises a network access identity. The network access identity may take any form but in an embodiment the network access identity comprises a code that identifies a country and a code that identifies a wireless network and or a wireless service provider. For example in a code division multiple access CDMA implementation the network access identity may comprise a mobile network code MNC and a mobile country code MCC . Alternatively in a long term evolution LTE implementation the network access identity may comprise a public land mobile network identity PLMN ID that comprises a country code and a network code. The network access identity may be used to authorize access of the mobile communication device to the wireless link provided by the base transceiver station and or to the network .

The wireless communication identity further comprises information that may be used to generate operational run time parameters for wireless communication. The information may comprise one or more lists of wireless communication networks that the mobile communication device is authorized to attach to a rule set for prioritizing among the networks identified in the one or more lists and one or more tables of device rules.

The lists of wireless communication networks that the mobile communication device is authorized to attach to may depend on the wireless communication protocol used by the mobile communication device to establish a wireless link to the base transceiver station . Said in another way the particular lists the number of lists and the names of lists of wireless communication networks may be different for mobile communication devices communicating according to different wireless communication protocols. The lists of wireless communication networks may comprise one or more of a PRL a PLMN list an OPLMN list an EHPLMN list an HPLMN list an MSPL table and an MLPL table.

PRL stands for a preferred roaming list. The PRL may comprise information used in network and or system selection and acquisition. The PRL may organize the information in prioritized order for example defining what systems and or service provider identities to scan and in what order to obtain radio access. PLMN stands for public land mobile network. The PLMN list may comprise a list of public land mobile networks and or other lists such as an EHPLMN list or an OPLMN list. The HPLMN list is a home PLMN file that may comprise a list of networks or communication systems identified by mobile country code MCC . EHPLMN stands for an equivalent home PLMN. The EHPLMN list may comprise records of networks or communication systems identified by Mobile Country Code MCC . OPLMN stands for operator controlled PLMN. The OPLMN list may comprise records of networks or communication systems identified by Mobile Network Code MNC . MSPL stands for MMSS multi mode system selection System Priority List. The MSPL table may be used with another system selection priority list e.g. PLMN list OPLMN list HPLMN list EHPLMN list and the like . MLPL stands for MMSS Location Associated Priority List. The MLPL table may enable scaling a range of entries of a system selection priority list e.g. PLMN list OPLMN list HPLMN list EHPLMN list and the like .

These lists and or tables may be said to implement define and or describe a coverage map. In an embodiment the MSPL and the MLPL lists or tables may provide geocoding and preference information and may promote mapping between 3GPP and 3GPP2 protocols. The tables of device rules may comprise a band support table and a technology order table. The band support table may identify ranges of radio frequency that the mobile communication device should scan for attaching to the radio access network RAN for example to attach to the base transceiver station . In an embodiment the six lists and the two tables may be compiled and or reformatted to efficiently combine the content as a list or table at run time on the mobile communication device for example on the event of a modem reset.

In an embodiment the IDs may comprise addresses of alternative domain name server DNS servers media gateways ports and or routing information. The IDs may share information in common but do differ by at least one parameter value. One or more of the IDs may be stored in a single memory chip or a plurality of memory chips. One or more of the IDs may be stored in different virtual memories or in different segments of memory that are managed as separate virtual memories by an operating system and or by a virtualization application on the mobile communication device . One or more of the IDs may be stored in an integrated memory such as a memory of a stand alone chipset or a non transitory memory integral with the mobile communication device. One or more of the IDs may be stored in a removable memory card such as a secure digital SD card or a physical subscriber identity module card.

Additionally the IDs or may comprise user data associated with the wireless communication identities for example user preferences service enrollment application enablement customization parameters a contact list and or other user data associated with the wireless communication identity. For example a business ID may prefer standard resolution and regular content movie while a personal ID may prefer high resolution and premium content movie in terms of movie shopping preferences. A personal ID may enable a specific game application or all game applications while a business ID may disable the specific game application or all game applications. An ID for a certain wireless communications service provider may have a contact list different form an ID for another wireless communications service provider. A first hotel reward program ID may comprise reward information specific to the corresponding first hotel while a second reward program ID for another hotel may comprise reward information for the second hotel. An ID may set a different theme on the mobile communication device from another ID.

The IDs may be sourced from different sources for example the first ID may be sourced or provided by the first server the second ID may be sourced by the second server and the third ID may be sourced by the third server . Alternatively two or more IDs may be sourced from a single server. An ID broker may interwork with the severs and or to mediate the transport of the subject ID to the mobile communication device . In an embodiment the ID broker may arrange transport of the subject ID to the trusted security zone of the mobile communication device over a trusted end to end communication link. For more details on establishing trusted end to end communication links relying on hardware assisted security see U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 532 588 filed Jun. 25 2012 entitled End to end Trusted Communications Infrastructure by Leo Michael McRoberts et al. which was incorporated by reference above. In some contexts the ID broker may be said to implement multi identity management brokering as a network service.

In an embodiment the IDs may be installed in different ways. For example the IDs may be allocated and installed remotely by a server at the time of fulfillment or activation of the mobile communication device . The IDs may be allocated and stored at the manufacturer of the mobile communication device when the manufacturer of the mobile communication device knows where the mobile communication device will be shipped to and or what IDs the mobile communication device will be equipped with. The IDs may then be installed by the application at the time of the fulfillment or activation of the mobile communication device . The IDs may be installed locally by the application at the time of ID change with data preloaded earlier. Additionally the IDs may be dynamically allocated and installed by the application at the time of ID change.

For example the first ID may be installed by the first server remotely at the time of fulfillment or activation of the mobile communication device . The data of the second ID may be downloaded to the mobile communication device and the second ID may be installed locally by the application at the time of fulfillment or activation of the mobile communication device . And the data of the third ID may be downloaded and stored locally without installing at the time of fulfillment or activation of the mobile communication device . Alternatively the third ID may be installed locally by the application when the active ID is changed from another ID to the third ID . When the application activates a different wireless communication identity the application may then distribute configuration parameters associated with the activated wireless communication identity. In an embodiment the configuration parameters may comprise internal memory and file memory assigned to the requested wireless communication identity.

The IDs or may be coupled to the mobile communication device only. The IDs or may be coupled to a subscriber identity module only. Alternatively the IDs or may be coupled to both the mobile communication device and the subscriber identity module. The subscriber identity module here may be a physical virtual subscriber identity module or a virtual subscriber identity module. The virtual subscriber identity module may be stored in a remote server and may be downloaded. For example the IDs and may be coupled to a virtual subscriber identity module only and when the user of the mobile communication device purchases another mobile communication device the IDs and may be downloaded from the remote server where the IDs and are stored to the new mobile communication device. The IDs or may be coupled in different ways. For example the first ID may be coupled to the mobile communication device only while the third ID may be coupled to both the mobile communication device and the subscriber identity module.

In an embodiment the wireless communication device may be a generic device that may operate with different wireless communications service providers with different wireless communications technologies. For example original equipment manufacturers OEM may produce generic wireless communication devices with different wireless communication identities that may operate with different wireless communications service providers with different technologies in different countries. For example a generic wireless communication device may be able to operate with code division multiple access CDMA networks with a first wireless communications service provider in a first country and also with mobile communications GSM networks with a second wireless communications service provider in a second country.

Currently the inventory tracking number and network authentication identity of a mobile communication device is one same number. In an embodiment the inventory tracking number and network authentication identity of the mobile communication device may be separated out. For example the inventory tracking number may be a different number from any of the network authentication identity included in the wireless communication identities.

The application executes rules or functions to determine what wireless communication identity is active for wireless communications. The mobile communication device may present a user interface on a display that provides controls for a user to select from among the IDs and which wireless communication identity the application is to make active on the mobile communication device . Additionally the application may monitor operational conditions and or environmental conditions to determine triggering events and may select an ID to make active based on the triggering events. Triggering events may comprise user inputs for example a user input in a user interface of the mobile communication device that selects an ID .

The application may activate an ID based on a current location of the mobile communication device for example a location that corresponds to a work location or employer location a private residence location a hotel location a domestic location an international location an urban location a suburban location or other location. The application may provide a user interface promoting user definition of mapping or association of locations to IDs . The application may activate an ID based on time and a schedule for example a work schedule. The application may provide a user interface promoting user definition of the schedule for activating IDs . The application may activate an ID based on analyzing a radio signal incident upon the mobile communication device for example a WiFi signal received from a hotel hot spot or a cellular communication signal received from a picocell and or a micro cellular base station. The application may activate an ID upon request. The requester of a wireless communication identity may provide the application with the access key to the wireless communication identity. Provided with the correct access key the application may activate the requested wireless communication identity. Requests may comprise user inputs for example a user input request with an access key to a corresponding wireless communication identity.

Different wireless communication identities may be activated by different triggering events. For example the first ID may be activated based on a work schedule and the third ID may be activated based on a hotel location. An ID may be activated by a single triggering event or by one of multiple triggering events. For example the first ID may be activated only by a work location and the second ID may be activated either by a private residence location or an international location.

When the application activates a different wireless communication identity the application may recalculate or redetermine operational run time parameters of the mobile communication device based on the ID and store these operational run time parameters in the memory and or one or more registers of the processor . After recalculating and storing the operational run time parameters the application may cause a radio modem of the cellular radio transceiver to reset thereby bringing the recalculated operational run time parameters into effect. It is understood that resetting a radio modem may not cause a user partition of the memory to be erased and or user data to be lost as may sometimes be the case if a full device reset were performed.

User data associated with the active ID may also be updated on the mobile communication device . User data associated with a wireless communication identity may comprise user preferences service enrollment application enablement customization parameters and or a contact list. User data associated with an active ID may be updated at the time of the ID activation. Corresponding applications on the mobile communication device may operate with updated user data afterwards.

While in the application is illustrated as outside of the trusted security zone in an embodiment the application may be stored in the trusted security zone and or invoke functions provided by instructions stored in and or executing within the trusted security zone . In an embodiment the application may read the information associated with the active wireless communication identity e.g. read one of the IDs for example by invoking a mediating access function that executes and or is stored in the trusted security zone and store this information in an area of memory that is used to conduct wireless communications. In an embodiment the active wireless communication identity may be stored in a plurality of different locations in the memory possibly in non contiguous areas of the memory .

In an embodiment the application may send the IDs corresponding wireless communication configurations device rules and or associated user data to a remote server. For example the application may send the wireless communication identity corresponding wireless communication configurations device rules and or associated user data to a server for example the server or another server and the server may store all those data. The application may later fetch the wireless communication identity corresponding wireless communication configurations device rules and or associated user data from the remote server with which those data are stored under predefined circumstances. For example when a mobile communication device is lost the user may get a new mobile communication device and download the stored data from the remote server to the new device.

Turning now to a method is described. At block two or more wireless communication identities are allocated into a secure portion of a memory of the mobile communication device. For example the wireless communication identities may be allocated into a subscriber identity module card a hardware assisted security zone e.g. trusted security zone a stand alone chipset or another secure part of a memory on the mobile communication device.

At block each wireless communication identity is stored into a single partition in the memory of the mobile communication device. A secure part of a memory on the wireless communication device may be apportioned into different partitions. The limit of the total number of the partitions may depend on the total memory size allocated for the wireless communication identities. The size of each of the partition is not necessarily the same. In other words different partitions may be of different sizes.

Different wireless communication identities may be allocated stored and installed in different manners. For example the wireless communication identities may be loaded at the original equipment manufacturer OEM of the mobile communication device when the original equipment manufacturer knows where the mobile communication device will be shipped to and or what wireless communication identities may be desired on the mobile communication device. The wireless communication identities may be installed later on by an application on the mobile communication device at the time of fulfillment or activation of the mobile communication device. The wireless communication identities may be allocated stored and installed by a remote server at the time of fulfillment or activation of the mobile communication device. A wireless communication identity may be allocated and stored on the mobile communication device first and then installed by the application on the mobile communication device when the mobile communication device changes to the wireless communication identity from a previous active wireless communication identity. Additionally a wireless communication identity may be dynamically allocated and installed by the application on the mobile communication device when the mobile communication device changes to the wireless communication identity.

At block a triggering event is detected. In an embodiment a triggering event may trigger the change of wireless communication identities. An application on the mobile communication device may execute rules or functions to determine what wireless communication identity is active for wireless communications. The mobile communication device may provide a user interface on a display that provides controls for a user to select from among the available wireless communication identities on the mobile communication device to make active. Additionally the application may monitor operational conditions and or environmental conditions and determine triggering events. The application may activate a wireless communication identity when a triggering event is detected. Triggering events may comprise user inputs. Triggering events may comprise locations time and schedules radio signal incidents requests and other triggering events. Different wireless communication identities may be activated by different triggering events. Different wireless communication identities may be activated by different numbers of triggering events. For example one wireless communication identity may be activated by a single triggering event and another wireless communication identity may be activated by one of multiple triggering events.

At block one of the wireless communication identities stored in the partitions of the memory is activated or dynamically installed and activated in response to the triggering event where the mobile communication device conducts wireless communication via the radio transceiver based on the active communication identity. Based on the triggering event and the corresponding rule to select the optimal or preferred wireless communication identity to activate the selected wireless communication identity is activated or dynamically installed and activated by the application. When the installation of the wireless communication identity is involved a partition in the memory is allocated to store the wireless communication identity and the wireless communication identity is installed into the partition and then activated. In an embodiment the application then redetermines or recalculates operational run time parameters of the mobile communication device based on the selected wireless communication identity and store these operational run time parameters in the memory of the mobile communication device. The application may then cause a radio modem of the radio transceiver to reset thus bringing the recalculated operational run time parameters into effect. User data associated with the selected wireless communication identity may also be updated and stored. For example the previous corresponding user data may be replaced by the new user data. Corresponding applications may then operate with the updated user data.

The DSP or some other form of controller or central processing unit operates to control the various components of the mobile device in accordance with embedded software or firmware stored in memory or stored in memory contained within the DSP itself. In addition to the embedded software or firmware the DSP may execute other applications stored in the memory or made available via information carrier media such as portable data storage media like the removable memory card or via wired or wireless network communications. The application software may comprise a compiled set of machine readable instructions that configure the DSP to provide the desired functionality or the application software may be high level software instructions to be processed by an interpreter or compiler to indirectly configure the DSP .

The DSP may communicate with a wireless network via the analog baseband processing unit . In some embodiments the communication may provide Internet connectivity enabling a user to gain access to content on the Internet and to send and receive e mail or text messages. The input output interface interconnects the DSP and various memories and interfaces. The memory and the removable memory card may provide software and data to configure the operation of the DSP . Among the interfaces may be the USB port and the infrared port . The USB port may enable the mobile device to function as a peripheral device to exchange information with a personal computer or other computer system. The infrared port and other optional ports such as a Bluetooth interface or an IEEE 802.11 compliant wireless interface may enable the mobile device to communicate wirelessly with other nearby handsets and or wireless base stations.

The keypad couples to the DSP via the input output interface to provide one mechanism for the user to make selections enter information and otherwise provide input to the mobile device . Another input mechanism may be the touch screen LCD which may also display text and or graphics to the user. The touch screen LCD controller couples the DSP to the touch screen LCD . The GPS receiver is coupled to the DSP to decode global positioning system signals thereby enabling the mobile device to determine its position.

It is understood that by programming and or loading executable instructions onto the computer system at least one of the CPU the RAM and the ROM are changed transforming the computer system in part into a particular machine or apparatus having the novel functionality taught by the present disclosure. It is fundamental to the electrical engineering and software engineering arts that functionality that can be implemented by loading executable software into a computer can be converted to a hardware implementation by well known design rules. Decisions between implementing a concept in software versus hardware typically hinge on considerations of stability of the design and numbers of units to be produced rather than any issues involved in translating from the software domain to the hardware domain. Generally a design that is still subject to frequent change may be preferred to be implemented in software because re spinning a hardware implementation is more expensive than re spinning a software design. Generally a design that is stable that will be produced in large volume may be preferred to be implemented in hardware for example in an application specific integrated circuit ASIC because for large production runs the hardware implementation may be less expensive than the software implementation. Often a design may be developed and tested in a software form and later transformed by well known design rules to an equivalent hardware implementation in an application specific integrated circuit that hardwires the instructions of the software. In the same manner as a machine controlled by a new ASIC is a particular machine or apparatus likewise a computer that has been programmed and or loaded with executable instructions may be viewed as a particular machine or apparatus.

The secondary storage is typically comprised of one or more disk drives or tape drives and is used for non volatile storage of data and as an over flow data storage device if RAM is not large enough to hold all working data. Secondary storage may be used to store programs which are loaded into RAM when such programs are selected for execution. The ROM is used to store instructions and perhaps data which are read during program execution. ROM is a non volatile memory device which typically has a small memory capacity relative to the larger memory capacity of secondary storage . The RAM is used to store volatile data and perhaps to store instructions. Access to both ROM and RAM is typically faster than to secondary storage . The secondary storage the RAM and or the ROM may be referred to in some contexts as computer readable storage media and or non transitory computer readable media.

I O devices may include printers video monitors liquid crystal displays LCDs touch screen displays keyboards keypads switches dials mice track balls voice recognizers card readers paper tape readers or other well known input devices.

The network connectivity devices may take the form of modems modem banks Ethernet cards universal serial bus USB interface cards serial interfaces token ring cards fiber distributed data interface FDDI cards wireless local area network WLAN cards radio transceiver cards such as code division multiple access CDMA global system for mobile communications GSM long term evolution LTE worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX and or other air interface protocol radio transceiver cards and other well known network devices. These network connectivity devices may enable the processor to communicate with the Internet or one or more intranets. With such a network connection it is contemplated that the processor might receive information from the network or might output information to the network in the course of performing the above described method steps. Such information which is often represented as a sequence of instructions to be executed using processor may be received from and outputted to the network for example in the form of a computer data signal embodied in a carrier wave.

Such information which may include data or instructions to be executed using processor for example may be received from and outputted to the network for example in the form of a computer data baseband signal or signal embodied in a carrier wave. The baseband signal or signal embedded in the carrier wave or other types of signals currently used or hereafter developed may be generated according to several methods well known to one skilled in the art. The baseband signal and or signal embedded in the carrier wave may be referred to in some contexts as a transitory signal.

The processor executes instructions codes computer programs scripts which it accesses from hard disk floppy disk optical disk these various disk based systems may all be considered secondary storage ROM RAM or the network connectivity devices . While only one processor is shown multiple processors may be present. Thus while instructions may be discussed as executed by a processor the instructions may be executed simultaneously serially or otherwise executed by one or multiple processors. Instructions codes computer programs scripts and or data that may be accessed from the secondary storage for example hard drives floppy disks optical disks and or other device the ROM and or the RAM may be referred to in some contexts as non transitory instructions and or non transitory information.

In an embodiment the computer system may comprise two or more computers in communication with each other that collaborate to perform a task. For example but not by way of limitation an application may be partitioned in such a way as to permit concurrent and or parallel processing of the instructions of the application. Alternatively the data processed by the application may be partitioned in such a way as to permit concurrent and or parallel processing of different portions of a data set by the two or more computers. In an embodiment virtualization software may be employed by the computer system to provide the functionality of a number of servers that is not directly bound to the number of computers in the computer system . For example virtualization software may provide twenty virtual servers on four physical computers. In an embodiment the functionality disclosed above may be provided by executing the application and or applications in a cloud computing environment. Cloud computing may comprise providing computing services via a network connection using dynamically scalable computing resources. Cloud computing may be supported at least in part by virtualization software. A cloud computing environment may be established by an enterprise and or may be hired on an as needed basis from a third party provider. Some cloud computing environments may comprise cloud computing resources owned and operated by the enterprise as well as cloud computing resources hired and or leased from a third party provider.

In an embodiment some or all of the functionality disclosed above may be provided as a computer program product. The computer program product may comprise one or more computer readable storage medium having computer usable program code embodied therein to implement the functionality disclosed above. The computer program product may comprise data structures executable instructions and other computer usable program code. The computer program product may be embodied in removable computer storage media and or non removable computer storage media. The removable computer readable storage medium may comprise without limitation a paper tape a magnetic tape magnetic disk an optical disk a solid state memory chip for example analog magnetic tape compact disk read only memory CD ROM disks floppy disks jump drives digital cards multimedia cards and others. The computer program product may be suitable for loading by the computer system at least portions of the contents of the computer program product to the secondary storage to the ROM to the RAM and or to other non volatile memory and volatile memory of the computer system . The processor may process the executable instructions and or data structures in part by directly accessing the computer program product for example by reading from a CD ROM disk inserted into a disk drive peripheral of the computer system . Alternatively the processor may process the executable instructions and or data structures by remotely accessing the computer program product for example by downloading the executable instructions and or data structures from a remote server through the network connectivity devices . The computer program product may comprise instructions that promote the loading and or copying of data data structures files and or executable instructions to the secondary storage to the ROM to the RAM and or to other non volatile memory and volatile memory of the computer system .

In some contexts the secondary storage the ROM and the RAM may be referred to as a non transitory computer readable medium or a computer readable storage media. A dynamic RAM embodiment of the RAM likewise may be referred to as a non transitory computer readable medium in that while the dynamic RAM receives electrical power and is operated in accordance with its design for example during a period of time during which the computer specification is turned on and operational the dynamic RAM stores information that is written to it. Similarly the processor may comprise an internal RAM an internal ROM a cache memory and or other internal non transitory storage blocks sections or components that may be referred to in some contexts as non transitory computer readable media or computer readable storage media.

While several embodiments have been provided in the present disclosure it should be understood that the disclosed systems and methods may be embodied in many other specific forms without departing from the spirit or scope of the present disclosure. The present examples are to be considered as illustrative and not restrictive and the intention is not to be limited to the details given herein. For example the various elements or components may be combined or integrated in another system or certain features may be omitted or not implemented.

Also techniques systems subsystems and methods described and illustrated in the various embodiments as discrete or separate may be combined or integrated with other systems modules techniques or methods without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Other items shown or discussed as directly coupled or communicating with each other may be indirectly coupled or communicating through some interface device or intermediate component whether electrically mechanically or otherwise. Other examples of changes substitutions and alterations are ascertainable by one skilled in the art and could be made without departing from the spirit and scope disclosed herein.

