---

title: Steering wheel light bar
abstract: The present invention is directed to a steering apparatus for a vehicle having a including a light element providing indication and warning light signals to the user of the vehicle. The light element can be associated with a PCB mounted to the steering wheel grip for controlling the operation of the light element. The PCB may be thermally coupled to a heat exchange component such that heat from the light element is transferred from the PCB to the steering wheel grip.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09308857&OS=09308857&RS=09308857
owner: TK Holdings Inc.
number: 09308857
owner_city: Auburn Hills
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131023
---
The present disclosure claims priority to U.S. Patent Application No. 61 717 546 filed Oct. 23 2012 entitled Steering Wheel Light Bar the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

This invention generally relates to a steering apparatus including a light element. More specifically the invention relates to a vehicle steering wheel including a light element providing indication and warning signals to the user.

Various advanced driver assistance systems incorporate visual acoustic and or sensor warnings. Visual interfaces for these assistance systems must minimize both driver reaction time to warnings and the workload on the driver to comprehend and respond to the warning or information. Conventional instrument panel and center stack displays require the driver s attention be drawn away from navigating the vehicle. Similarly idealized heads up displays can be jarring and sometimes distracting to the driver. Therefore a need in the art exists for a driver assistance system that utilizes the driver s peripheral vision and allows the driver to keep both hands on the wheel while maintaining focus in their direct line of sight. In doing so drivers can gain valuable and important reaction time in critical driving situations.

Presented are systems and methods for providing a light element in a steering apparatus. An aspect of the present disclosure is directed to a method of illuminating a light element mounted to a steering grip of a steering apparatus. The method may include receiving from a processor instructions for controlling operation of a light element. The method may further include varying an illumination characteristic of the light element in response to the instructions.

The details of one or more implementations of the invention are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features objects and advantages of the invention will be apparent from the description and drawings and from the claims.

Certain exemplary implementations of the invention will now be described with reference to the drawings. In general such implementations relate to a steering apparatus for a vehicle. is a partial plan view of an exemplary steering apparatus having a steering grip . The steering grip can be configured for gripping to facilitate control of the vehicle. For example the steering grip may be mounted on a fixed component not shown such that it is rotationally movable about a steering axis. An exemplary fixed component can include for example a steering column which receives a steering spindle that extends along the steering axis and serves to transmit the rotational movement of the steering grip to the wheels of the motor vehicle. Rotational movement of the steering grip may be transmitted to the wheels by mechanical and or electrical means. In an exemplary implementation the steering grip can include a single continuous grip portion or any number of unique grip sections. For example the steering grip can include an annular ring shape with an outer contour that is essentially circular in shape. In an alternate implementation the steering grip can define any suitable shape including for example circular elliptical square rectangular or any other regular or irregular shape.

In an exemplary implementation the steering apparatus also includes a light element for providing indication and or warning light signals to the driver of the vehicle. The light element can include for example a liquid crystal display LCD thin film transistor display active matrix display a segmented display e.g. improved black nematic INB super twisted nematic STN etc. a light emitting diode LED a liquid crystal display laser halogen fluorescent an infra red IR LED illuminator or any other suitable light emitting element. In an alternate implementation the light element can include a light pipe not shown having a start and end LEDs located at opposite ends of a solid or hollow molded plastic rod. The steering apparatus can also include a reflective material or surface for recycling light emitted from the light element and can be used to direct light to the driver. In an exemplary implementation when the light element comprises an IR LED illuminator illumination of the IR LED may also provide a desirable heat effect to the steering grip and may direct heat towards the driver s hands. For example a steering grip may include a heat element usually a heater mesh used to provide a heat effect on the steering grip . The heat mesh may be wrapped around the steering grip and or incorporated into the grip cover material. In an example steering apparatus the heat mesh does not cover over the portion of the steering grip including the light element thereby resulting in a gap in the heat effect. IR LEDs may be used as the light element to provide the heat effect in the area of the light element thereby providing a full heat effect at the surface of the steering grip . In another example steering apparatus the heat mesh covers partially or entirely the portion of the steering grip including the light element thereby reducing and or eliminating any gap in the heat effect.

In an exemplary implementation the light element can display a single color or multiple colors. For example the exemplary LED can include a single color LED a bi color LED and a tri color LED. The steering apparatus can include a single light element or any number of light elements . Moreover different types of light elements may be implemented on the same steering apparatus . For example a steering grip may include both standard LEDs and IR LEDs. The light element can be located at any portion of the steering grip . For example as illustrated in the light element can be located on an interior edge of the steering grip . In an alternate implementation not shown the light element can be located on an exterior edge of the steering grip . In an alternate implementation not shown the light element can be located on a front or back face of the steering grip . The light element can be provided in a direction defined by the perimeter diameter of the steering grip . For example as illustrated in the light element can extend along the direction of the upper half of the steering grip on the inner diameter of the steering grip . The light element can define any suitable shape including for example circular elliptical square rectangular or any other regular or irregular shape. For example as illustrated in the exemplary light element is provided with an elongated shape having curvilinear sides. In an alternate implementation provided in the light element can include a vertical element extending in a radial direction of the steering grip .

In an exemplary implementation a lens is configured to cover the light element . The lens may be sized and shaped to correspond to the size and shape of the light element . As illustrated in the outer surface of the lens may be adjacent to the exterior surface of the steering grip . For example the lens may provide a surface that is congruent with the exterior surface of the steering grip . In an alternate implementation not shown the lens may provide an outer surface that has a different general shape than the profile defined by the steering grip . The outer lens may comprise a fully or partially transparent translucent or opaque body. The outer lens can be constructed from a hard or soft material. The outer lens can include a surface feature or texture to provide a grip or feel to the driver. The outer lens can be constructed from a single layer of material or multiple layers of material. The outer lens may filter direct or otherwise modify the properties of the light signals emitted from the light element . In an exemplary implementation the lens is configured to shield the light element from ambient light.

As illustrated in the steering grip also includes a frame providing the support structure for the steering grip a carrier mounted to the frame and configured to engage a PCB and or control circuitry for supporting and controlling operation of the light element . The carrier may be sized and shaped to facilitate attachment to various frame PCB and outer lens structures. The carrier can be mounted to the frame using screws hooks clips or any other form of mechanical fastener known in the art. An exemplary carrier may be joined with the frame using a thermally conductive gap pad or other thermally conductive adhesive. The frame may also define the support structure for central hub and spokes of the steering grip . In an alternate implementation not shown the carrier is not required and the PCB and or control circuitry is coupled to the frame of the steering grip . As illustrated in an exemplary steering grip includes a covering configured to cover the exterior of the steering grip body and provide a surface for the driver to handle during operation of the vehicle. In an exemplary implementation the covering may also partially or fully cover the lens without severely impacting light transmission to the driver. It is contemplated that when covering the lens the covering conceals the lens and light element when not illuminated. Exemplary covering materials include for example leather cloth polyurethane foam and various other synthetic materials.

In an exemplary implementation to reduce energy consumption and heat generation the light emitted from the light element is filtered and guided to maximize the light signal directed through the outer lens . In an exemplary implementation light emitted from the light element is recycled using a solid acrylic lens . The lens may be trapezoidal in shape such that light is reflected in the desired direction i.e. at the driver . In an exemplary implementation reflective surfaces of the carrier are painted white or other highly reflective color to ensure that light is reflected in the desired direction and not refracted internal to the system. Fillers and fibers can be added to the outer lens and or the lens to direct light toward the driver and to increase the brightness of the light output the outer lens . In a further implementation brightness enhancing films can be used to direct light to the driver. The exemplary brightness enhancing films may be used individually or multiple films may be stacked together. As illustrated in multiple brightness enhancing films may be stacked adjacent to the lens . In a further implementation diffusing films and or textured lens surfaces may be used where high light intensity is not needed. As illustrated in diffusing films may be located adjacent to the brightness enhancing films . In an alternate implementation a diffusing film may be located adjacent to the LED . Light passes through the diffusing films and into the brightness enhancing films . Another diffusing film may be located adjacent to the brightness enhancing films and the lens . By securing a tight coupling between the light element to the outer lens the brightness of the output light is increased. Any order or combination of brightness enhancing films diffusing films and lenses are contemplated. In an exemplary implementation the brightness enhancing films and diffusing films may be stacked and oriented in such a way that the ambient light entering the lens cannot pass through the lens . Blocking the ambient light allows the lens to have a higher transmission rate while preventing internal components of the light assembly and steering grip from being seen by the driver on from the outside.

The light element can be associated with circuitry for controlling operation of the light signal provided by the light element . In an exemplary implementation the light element may be wired directly to control circuitry of the steering apparatus . For example the light element may include a T type LED that can be wired through an inline resistor to a steering apparatus power source. In an alternate implementation the light element can be associated with a PCB not shown or processor mounted to or associated with the electronic control unit of the vehicle. The PCB processor can be configured to provide operation instructions from the vehicle to the light element . In a further implementation the light element may be associated with a PCB configured to provide operation instructions to the light element . For example as illustrated in the light element can by physically mounted to the surface of the PCB . The PCB can include for example rigid semi rigid and flexible type PCBs . An example PCB can include a flex circuit wherein the LEDs are mounted to backing material that acts as a heat sink. The backing material can include for example an aluminum flex backing Other types and combinations of PCBs are contemplated.

In an exemplary implementation the PCB can be mounted to the steering grip . For example as illustrated in the PCB and or control circuitry is mounted to the frame of the steering grip via carrier . In an alternate implementation not shown the PCB and control circuitry is mounted directly to the frame of the steering grip . The board material of an exemplary PCB may be constructed of FR 4 G 10 glass reinforced epoxy laminate. Because FR 4 has a poor thermal conductivity approximately 0.003 W cm C. and because the frame may be constructed of materials having high thermal conductivity including for example magnesium alloy diecast 1.575 W cm C. aluminum alloy diecast 2.165 W cm C. and steel low carbon 0.669 W cm C. it is desirable to thermally couple the PCB to the frame in order to dissipate heat way from the light elements . In an exemplary implementation the PCB can be thermally coupled to a heat exchange component associated with the steering grip . The heat exchange component can be configured to transfer heat from the PCB to the steering grip . The heat exchange component may comprise for example a thermally conductive resin an epoxy a polymer and or a metal. In an exemplary implementation the steering grip may be coupled to the central hub and spokes such that heat from the light element can be transferred from the steering grip to the spokes and central hub of the steering grip .

In a high intensity environment 5 nit or greater in order to ensure driver comfort in handling the steering grip and to prolong life of the light element in hours of illumination the exemplary heat exchange component must dissipate heat from the light elements at a rate sufficient to ensure that the surface temperature of the steering grip does not exceed approximately 45 C. In an alternate implementation where only low intensity light elements are used the steering apparatus may not include a heat exchange component. For example in a system where the light element generate a light at an intensity up to only 5 nit the heat output by the light elements will be not necessitate the use of a heat exchange component for dissipating heat from the light source .

In an exemplary implementation the steering apparatus can include a single PCB or multiple PCBs located along the steering grip . For example as illustrated in the steering grip may include a single PCB spanning the entire perimeter of the steering grip thereby providing a 360 illumination system. In an alternate implementation illustrated in the steering grip may include a single PCB along the upper half of the perimeter defined by the steering grip . In a further implementations illustrated in the steering grip may include multiple PCBs . Because the steering apparatus and in particular the steering grip is constructed to withstand substantial loading in the event of a crash a steering grip including multiple PCBs can provide for less likelihood that a PCB will break upon impact and or airbag deployment. Moreover by locating multiple PCBs along the diameter of the steering grip and in particular along the upper half of the steering grip rim helps to reduce the probability that a PCB will break under a load at the 12 o clock position on the rim of the steering wheel grip . As illustrated in the steering grip may include multiple PCBs including for example PCB A may be located on a right portion of the steering grip diameter and PCB B may be located on a left portion of the steering grip diameter. In another implementation illustrated in the steering grip may include three PCBs . PCB A may be located on a right portion of the steering grip PCB B on a left portion of the steering grip and PCB C on a top center portion of the steering grip between PCBs A and B. In a further implementation not shown the steering grip may include a PCB located on a lower portion of the steering grip . Any number of locations and quantities of PCB are considered within the disclosed implementation.

In an exemplary implementation the PCB includes a single zone or multiple zones for directing operation of the light element . For example in an exemplary implementation the PCB may include one zone for controlling operation of the light element . The PCB may control the light element based on instructions provided to the corresponding zone of the PCB . The light element may include a single light source such as one LED or it may include multiple light sources i.e. multiple LEDs. In an exemplary implementation the PCB can provide separate instructions to each of the individual LEDs within the same zone.

In an alternate implementation the PCB can include multiple zones for example two or more zones each associated with a different light element or group of light elements . Each zone can be configured to provide separate operating instructions to their respective light elements . In an exemplary implementation the LEDs may be arranged into groups and each group of LEDs assigned a zone on the PCB . For example the PCB may include 36 LED style light elements . The exemplary PCB may be divided into four zones each zone associated with 9 LEDs. The PCB can control operation of the LEDs in each of the four zones separately based on the instructions provided by the respective zones.

In an alternate implementation the PCB can include a number of zones corresponding to the number of light elements present on the PCB where each zone provides operation instructions to its corresponding light individual element . For example an exemplary PCB may include 36 LED style light elements and 36 zones corresponding to each of the 36 LEDs. The PCB can individually control operation of each of the 36 LEDs based on instructions provided to each of the corresponding 36 zones.

In an exemplary implementation the steering apparatus may include a processor connected in communication with the PCB . The processor may be configured to direct operation of the light element . The processor can be associated with the steering apparatus . In an exemplary implementation the processor may be located on or proximate the PCB of the steering grip . In an alternative implementation the processor may be located on or otherwise associated with the electronic control unit of the vehicle. In a further implementation the processor may be located on or otherwise associated with an other vehicle system. Where the processor is associated with a system other than the steering apparatus and or the steering grip wired and or wireless communication lines i.e. data and or power wires radio frequency wi fi Bluetooth etc. may be provided from the alternate system to the light element . For example the light element and or the PCB may be connected to the vehicle s electronic control unit ECU by a wire run from the ECU unit to the light element PCB . In a further example particular zones on the PCB may communicate with a processor associated with a system other than the steering apparatus and or the steering grip and communication lines i.e. data and or power wires may be provided from the alternate system to the zoned PCB .

In an exemplary implementation the light element PCB and the processor are connected in communication with the vehicle by two wires where the first wire may provide a power source to the light element PCB and the processor and the second wire provides a data connection between the steering apparatus and the vehicle. In a further example the light element PCB and the processor may be connected in communication with the vehicle by two wires one including multiple communication lines and the second wire including power source. For example where the PCB includes 6 zones the first wire may include 6 communication lines for directing the operation of the corresponding zones and the second wire may be a power source for providing power to the PCB . The light element PCB and the processor may alternatively be in communication with the vehicle at only a power source.

In an exemplary implementation the processor may be configured to receive information from the vehicle. Information received from the vehicle may include for example GPS global positioning system information navigation information foreign object proximity information vehicle performance information general warning information course information positioning information available from on board sensor such as cameras radar LIDAR light detection and ranging systems vehicle communication system information and any other information relevant to the operation of the vehicle the status of the user and or the functioning of the steering apparatus .

Navigation information may include for example a preparation for course change e.g. lane recommendation in anticipation of pending course change a navigation course change e.g. instructions for following determined route and or notification that the determined route has been recalculated and a distance to course change e.g. distance to turn . Foreign object proximity information may include for example the distance and direction to an identified foreign object the size of a foreign object and the relative speed and direction of the foreign object. Foreign object information can also include foreign individual proximity information. For example vehicle systems can be used to detect an unauthorized person s presence in on proximate the vehicle e.g. sensors within the vehicle can detect the touch weight pressure etc. of unauthorized individual in on proximate the vehicle . Example sensors might include capacitive sensors pressure sensors conductivity resistivity sensors and weight sensors. Foreign individual proximity information may be utilized in conjunction with any vehicle security alarm system.

Vehicle performance information may include for example on off operation of the vehicle battery life status fuel level fuel efficiency engine RPM vehicle oversteer vehicle understeer turbocharger supercharger boost pressure an electrical vehicle eV status stop and go vehicle mode steering grip straight ahead position vehicle lateral acceleration autonomous vehicle driving state information adaptive cruise control state information keyless entry e.g. confirmation approved key fob detected and keyless ignition operation traction control electronic stability control braking control e.g. anti lock braking system control status active handling mode vehicle track race competition mode. General vehicle warning information may include for example occupant restraint information airbag status information door or window open ajar closed sunroof moon roof open ajar closed low tire pressure vehicle audio system status e.g. entertainment system audio volume equalizer display function speaker control e.g. left right front rear etc. vehicle communication system status e.g. incoming call Bluetooth activated connected etc. heating and air conditioning system e.g. temperature fan speed other temperature control systems e.g. heated cooled steering wheel headed cooled seats beverage coolers oil heater battery heater transmission heater etc. . Course information may include for example a measure of a course remaining e.g. a racing lap time countdown as a binary clock lap segments time segments etc. and a measure of the course remaining completed e.g. quantity of racing laps .

Operation of the light element may be directed in response to information received from the steering apparatus and or information received from the vehicle. The light element may be used to provide information and warning signals to the driver of the vehicle. In a further implementation the light element may be used to provide an aesthetically pleasing decorative effect. For example the light element may be used at vehicle start up to provide a decorative effect in addition to providing an indication to the driver of the vehicle s operation status.

Directing illumination of the light element may include for example the on off state of the light element intensity design pattern on off illumination cycle color or any other feature of the light element that can be controlled or otherwise manipulated. In an exemplary implementation the on off status of the light element can be controlled. For example in an implementation including multiple light elements the quantity of light elements illuminated at a given time can be used to indicate the magnitude and or scale of the warning or event the greater the number illuminated the greater the threat and or importance of the warning event. Similar to quantity the intensity of the light elements can be used to indicate the magnitude and or scale of the warning or event the greater the light intensity the greater the threat and or importance of the warning event. The actual design pattern can be used to convey a particular message to the driver e.g. illuminated symbols shapes text icons etc. . Likewise the design pattern of illumination can be used to indicate the magnitude scale of the warning or event. The on off illumination cycle or frequency of illumination of the light element can also be controlled to create a flashing or strobe like effect. For example a high frequency on off illumination cycle may be used to indicate an important and or time sensitive event to the driver such as an impact or collision warning. In a further example when the light element comprises an IR illuminator a strobed flashing light signal may be used to illuminate the driver s eyes for use in camera based driver monitoring systems. The operation of the exemplary IR illuminator type light element may be timed in communication with a camera or other sensing device and a processor to capture an image of the driver s eyes. Moreover the use of IR LEDs can be used to mitigate light reflection when the driver is wearing eye glasses.

The selection of a light element for illumination at a certain position can also be used to indicate the relative position of the warning or event. For example if an impact or collision warning is anticipated at the front driver s side section of the car the light element at a corresponding position on the steering grip i.e. upper left quadrant may be illuminated. Similarly the on off illumination cycle may be used to create a motion effect. The perceived direction of the light pattern can be used to indicate the relative direction of warning. For example an on off illumination pattern starting from the center of the steering grip and progressing toward the left side of the grip may create an illuminated wave like effect toward the left that can be used to indicate a warning event associated with the left side of the vehicle or an indication to the driver of a pending course change in a navigational setting.

In an exemplary steering apparatus a pattern of illumination of the light element can also be controlled. For example in an implementation including multiple light elements the light elements may be sized and located such that a shape or pattern may be created by illuminating particular light elements . In an exemplary implementation the color of the light element can also be controlled. The color of the light element may be used to indicate the severity or a threat level associated with a particular event. For example colors such as red yellow and green can be used to indicate the escalating severity threat associated with a particular event red indicating severe yellow a moderately severe warning and green little or no threat. For example if the vehicle senses an impact or collision warning or if the vehicle is traveling faster than allowable speed limit the color of the light elements may progress from green to yellow to red as the severity of the warning event escalates. In an alternate implementation controlling the color of the light element may be used to indicate a vehicle status or provide general driver indications. For example colors such as blue or white may be used to indicate general vehicle status and driver indication.

The following illumination combinations are provided as exemplary and should not be considered limiting on the disclosed invention. Additional and alternative light element locations and configurations are contemplated. Various combinations of light element operation may be utilized to indicate the relative position and or threat levels associated with a particular warning event as well as provide general status information to the driver.

In an exemplary implementation operation of the light element may be directed in response to information received from the vehicle and or information received from the steering apparatus . Information received from the vehicle can include for example GPS information on board sensor information camera information communication system information and lane position information. The operation of the light element may be directed to provide the driver with a lane departure warning. An exemplary lane departure warning indication wherein the light position indicates the direction of the threat event is illustrated in . When the vehicle is in a straight ahead orientation the illuminated light element may be centered on the steering grip Position . In response to the received information as the vehicle moves to the left side of the lane of travel the light elements on the left side of the steering grip are illuminated Position . As the vehicle moves progressively further toward the left side of the lane of travel light elements further along the left side of the steering grip are illuminated Position and Position . Alternatively as the vehicle moves to the right side of the lane of travel the light elements on right side of the steering grip are illuminated Position . As the vehicle moves progressively further toward the right side of the lane of travel the light elements further along the right side of the steering grip are illuminated Position and Position . In an exemplary implementation the time to lane cross may be used to determine the threat level associated with the vehicles direction of travel.

As outlined above both the quantity and position of lights may be used to indicate the relative position and or threat level associated with the warning event. An exemplary lane departure warning indication wherein the quantity and position of illuminated light elements are used to indicate the relative position and or threat level of the warning or event is provided in . When the vehicle is in a straight ahead orientation the illuminated light element may be centered on the steering grip Position . In response to information received from the vehicle e.g. GPS information on board sensor information camera information communication system information and lane position information as the vehicle moves to the left side of the lane of travel additional light elements on the left side of the steering grip are illuminated Position . As the vehicle moves progressively further toward the left side of the lane of travel additional light elements further along the left side of the steering grip are illuminated Position and Position . Alternatively as the vehicle moves to the right side of the lane of travel additional light elements on right side of the steering grip are illuminated Position . As the vehicle moves progressively further toward the right side of the lane of travel additional light elements further along the right side of the steering grip are illuminated Position and Position . In an exemplary implementation the time to lane cross may be used to determine the threat level associated with the vehicles direction of travel and the rate and quantity of the illumination of the additional light elements are illuminated.

As outlined above the color of the illuminated light elements may be used to indicate the relative position and threat level associated with the warning event. An exemplary lane departure warning indication wherein the color and position of the illuminated light elements are used to indicate the relative position and or threat level of the warning or event is provided in . When the vehicle is in a straight ahead orientation the illuminated light element may be centered on the steering grip . The illuminated light element may be provided in a color that indicates no threat warning associated with the given lane position. As illustrated in the illuminated light element may be green when the steering grip is a centered straight ahead position Position . In response to information received from the vehicle e.g. GPS information on board sensor information camera information communication system information and lane position information as the vehicle moves to the left or right side of the lane of travel the light elements on the left side of the steering grip or the light elements on the right side of the steering grip are illuminated. An initial indication of lane departure may be provided by green illuminated light elements Position . As the vehicle moves progressively further toward the left or right side of the lane of travel light elements further along the left right side of the steering grip are illuminated. These light elements may indicate a moderate threat warning and may be provided for example by yellow illuminated light elements Position . As the vehicle moves progressively further toward the left or right side of the lane of travel the light elements further along the left right side of the steering grip are illuminated. These light elements may indicate a severe and or immediate threat and may be provided for example by red illuminated light elements Position . In an exemplary implementation the time to lane cross may be used to determine the threat level associated with the vehicles direction of travel.

In a further implementation the vertical element can include be used to indicate the relative position and threat level associated with a particular warning event. As illustrated in the vertical element may include a plurality of light elements . When the vehicle is in a straight ahead orientation the light elements centered in the vertical element may be illuminated Position . Because the relative threat warning level in the straight ahead position is minimal the illuminated light element in Position may be green. In response to information received from the vehicle e.g. GPS information on board sensor information camera information communication system information and lane position information as the vehicle moves to the left or right side of the lane of travel the light elements on the left or right side respectively of the vertical element are illuminated. For example an initial indication that the vehicle is tending toward the left side of the lane of travel may be provided by illumination of the light elements on the left side of the vertical element Position . These light elements may indicate a moderate threat warning and may be provided for example by yellow illuminated light elements . As the vehicle moves progressively further toward the left or right side of the lane of travel the light elements may change colors from yellow to red indicating that the threat level associated with the lane departure has escalated from moderate to severe and or immediate.

In an exemplary implementation the vertical element can be used to indicate the relative position and or threat level associated an impact collision warning. As illustrated in the vertical element may include a plurality of light elements . The operation of the light elements may be directed in response to foreign object proximity information received from the vehicle. Illumination of the light elements may indicate the presence of a foreign object individual within a predetermined distance of the vehicle and or a distance to the foreign object individual. In response to the object data the light elements located on the steering grip illuminate. For example as the object is approaching the light elements may illuminate in a wave pattern suggesting the direction of the object and or the proximity of the object to the vehicle. As a further example the light elements may illuminate in an illumination pattern at a greater on off frequency at a particular quantity of light elements with greater intensity and or varying colors as the direction and or the proximity of the object to the vehicle change.

In an exemplary implementation the vertical light element can be used in conjunction with the light elements position on the side of the steering grip . For example as illustrated in the light elements can be used to guide the driver in operation of the vehicle. An exemplary steering apparatus can be used guide a driver into a parking space. In the exemplary implementation the light elements can be used to direct the driver to aim the vehicle in a particular manner. Operation of the light elements can include for example on off illumination illumination pattern on off cycling intensity and color. It is contemplated that operation of the light elements of the vertical element may be independent from the operation of the light elements included along the diameter of the steering grip . For example the light elements of the vertical element may be used to indicate proximity to a foreign object e.g. parked car while the light elements included along the diameter of the steering grip as used to provide directional and navigation information to the user. As illustrated in the light elements included along the diameter of the steering grip can illuminate at a location and frequency to suggest the direction of travel of the vehicle. In an alternate implementation the operation of the light elements of the vertical element may be in cooperation with the light elements included along the diameter of the steering grip . For example both the vertical and radial light elements may be used to provide navigation information to suggest the direction of travel of the vehicle.

In a further implementation the vertical and or radial light elements may be used to indicate a difference between the posted speed limit and the actual speed of the vehicle. For example the steering apparatus may receive information including GPS information and vehicle performance information. The GPS information may include information associated with a posted speed limit at the vehicle s current location. The vehicle performance information may include information associated with the actual speed of the vehicle. The vehicle and or the steering apparatus can determine that the vehicle is exceeding the posted speed limit and the operation of the light elements may be directed to indicate a threat warning associated with speed of the vehicle.

In another implementation vertical and or radial light elements may be used to indicate the electronic stability control braking control e.g. anti lock braking system control status active handling mode and or vehicle track race competition mode information. For example the light elements can be used to convey information associated with RPM and or braking threshold information. Varying patterns colors intensity etc. of the light elements can be used to indicate the intensity of the particular feature vehicle function e.g. increased intensity related to increased RPM . Similarly multiple types of performance information can be simultaneously displayed using the light elements . In an example steering grip light elements can display both RPM information and gravitational force information.

In an exemplary implementation the steering apparatus may include a sensor not shown located on the steering grip . The sensor may detect the driver input and or touch on the steering grip. Exemplary sensors include for example capacitive sensors pressure sensors and conductivity resistivity sensors. The sensor may be in communication with the PCB and or the processor. In an further implementation the driver s input may be transmitted to the electronic control unit of the vehicle. In an exemplary implementation the steering apparatus may be configured to receive autonomous driving state information and or adaptive cruise control information from the vehicle. The autonomous driving state information may indicate that the vehicle is operating autonomously and not under human control. The adaptive cruise control information may include whether the adaptive cruise control feature is engaged. Adaptive cruise control maintains a set distance between the car immediately in front of the driver s vehicle and or stops the vehicle completely when an emergency situation is identified. In some autonomous driving state and the adaptive cruise control settings some vehicles direct acceleration braking of the vehicle in addition to controlling steering e.g. to keep the vehicle within the lane when braking For the lane keeping feature of the adaptive cruise control it is essential that the driver be holding the steering grip or the braking feature will not engage. Similarly in some situations the autonomous driving state of the vehicle may disengage e.g. stop and go traffic in these situations it is also essential that the driver holding the steering grip . Therefore using on the received information about the state of the vehicle and or sensor information confirming the driver s input contact with the steering apparatus operation of the light element may be directed to indicate that the vehicle is not operating under human control or that human operation of the vehicle is necessary and the driver is required to engage the steering grip .

In an alternative implementation not shown the steering apparatus also includes an acoustic display and or a haptic display devices that work exclusively from or in conjunction with the light element . The haptic displays can include for example vibrators arranged on the steering grip steering apparatus such that vibration of the steering grip is felt by the driver in every grip position. The steering apparatus may be configured to direct operation of the vibrator in response to information received from the vehicle information received from the steering grip and or input information received from the driver at the steering grip . Operation of the vibrator can include for example manipulating the frequency intensity and location of the produced vibration. The frequency intensity and or location of the produced vibration can coordinate with the frequency intensity and or location of the light element .

It should be appreciated that the logical operations described herein with respect to the various figures may be implemented 1 as a sequence of computer implemented acts or program modules i.e. software running on a computing device 2 as interconnected machine logic circuits or circuit modules i.e. hardware within the computing device and or 3 a combination of software and hardware of the computing device. Thus the logical operations discussed herein are not limited to any specific combination of hardware and software. The implementation is a matter of choice dependent on the performance and other requirements of the computing device. Accordingly the logical operations described herein are referred to variously as operations structural devices acts or modules. These operations structural devices acts and modules may be implemented in software in firmware in special purpose digital logic and any combination thereof. It should also be appreciated that more or fewer operations may be performed than shown in the figures and described herein. These operations may also be performed in a different order than those described herein.

When the logical operations described herein are implemented in software the process may execute on any type of computing architecture or platform. For example the functions of the PCB processor control circuitry and vehicle electronics control unit as described above may be implemented on any type of computing architecture or platform. An exemplary implementation illustrated in provides an example computing device upon which embodiments of the invention may be implemented. The computing device may include a bus or other communication mechanism for communicating information among various components of the computing device . In its most basic configuration computing device typically includes at least one processing unit and system memory . Depending on the exact configuration and type of computing device system memory may be volatile such as random access memory RAM non volatile such as read only memory ROM flash memory etc. or some combination of the two. This most basic configuration is illustrated in by dashed line . The processing unit may be a standard programmable processor that performs arithmetic and logic operations necessary for operation of the computing device .

Computing device may have additional features functionality. For example computing device may include additional storage such as removable storage and non removable storage including but not limited to magnetic or optical disks or tapes. Computing device may also contain network connection s that allow the device to communicate with other devices. Computing device may also have input device s such as a keyboard mouse touch screen etc. Output device s such as a display speakers printer etc. may also be included. The additional devices may be connected to the bus in order to facilitate communication of data among the components of the computing device . All these devices are well known in the art and need not be discussed at length here.

The processing unit may be configured to execute program code encoded in tangible computer readable media. Computer readable media refers to any media that is capable of providing data that causes the computing device i.e. a machine to operate in a particular fashion. Various computer readable media may be utilized to provide instructions to the processing unit for execution. Common forms of computer readable media include for example magnetic media optical media physical media memory chips or cartridges a carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read. Example computer readable media may include but is not limited to volatile media non volatile media and transmission media. Volatile and non volatile media may be implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data and common forms are discussed in detail below. Transmission media may include coaxial cables copper wires and or fiber optic cables as well as acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio wave and infra red data communication. Example tangible computer readable recording media include but are not limited to an integrated circuit e.g. field programmable gate array or application specific IC a hard disk an optical disk a magneto optical disk a floppy disk a magnetic tape a holographic storage medium a solid state device RAM ROM electrically erasable program read only memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices.

In an example implementation the processing unit may execute program code stored in the system memory . For example the bus may carry data to the system memory from which the processing unit receives and executes instructions. The data received by the system memory may optionally be stored on the removable storage or the non removable storage before or after execution by the processing unit .

Computing device typically includes a variety of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by device and includes both volatile and non volatile media removable and non removable media. Computer storage media include volatile and non volatile and removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. System memory removable storage and non removable storage are all examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media include but are not limited to RAM ROM electrically erasable program read only memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by computing device . Any such computer storage media may be part of computing device .

It should be understood that the various techniques described herein may be implemented in connection with hardware or software or where appropriate with a combination thereof. Thus the methods and apparatuses of the presently disclosed subject matter or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computing device the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the presently disclosed subject matter. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device generally includes a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. One or more programs may implement or utilize the processes described in connection with the presently disclosed subject matter e.g. through the use of an application programming interface API reusable controls or the like. Such programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s can be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and it may be combined with hardware implementations.

The computing device may include a bus or other communication mechanism for communicating information among various components of the computing device . In an exemplary implementation the bus may provide a communication link between the computing device and the vehicle. In an alternate implementation the bus may provide a communication link between the computing device and various vehicle components. Information transmitted by the bus may include for example lane departure warning signal information GPS signal information general warning signal information and vehicle performance indication signal information.

An exemplary implementation may include a clock spring associated with the processing unit and the communication bus . The clock spring may provide an electrical connection communication link between when the processing unit is located proximate the steering grip steering apparatus . An exemplary clock spring includes a rotary type electrical connection that permits rotation of the steering grip while maintaining an electrical connection with the bus . For example the clock spring may include a static element generally mounted to the steering column and a rotating element generally mounted to the steering grip .

While the foregoing description and drawings represent the preferred implementation of the present invention it will be understood that various additions modifications combinations and or substitutions may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention as defined in the accompanying claims. In particular it will be clear to those skilled in the art that the present invention may be embodied in other specific forms structures arrangements proportions and with other elements materials and components without departing from the spirit or essential characteristics thereof. One skilled in the art will appreciate that the invention may be used with many modifications of structure arrangement proportions materials and components and otherwise used in the practice of the invention which are particularly adapted to specific environments and operative requirements without departing from the principles of the present invention. In addition features described herein may be used singularly or in combination with other features. The presently disclosed implementations are therefore to be considered in all respects as illustrative and not restrictive the scope of the invention being indicated by the appended claims and not limited to the foregoing description.

It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that changes could be made to the implementations described above without departing from the broad inventive concept thereof. It is understood therefore that this invention is not limited to the particular implementations disclosed but it is intended to cover modifications within the spirit and scope of the present invention as defined by the following claims.

