---

title: Data access sharing
abstract: A request to obtain data items associated with an entity is received from a client device. One or more computing devices determine whether access to the data items is restricted by an access control policy and whether the client device complies with the access control policy. In response to determining that the client device complies with the access control policy, at least a portion of the data items that the access control policy permits the client device to access are identified. An integration of the at least a portion of the data items with additional data items is initiated.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09275245&OS=09275245&RS=09275245
owner: AIRWATCH LLC
number: 09275245
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130315
---
Data access sharing provides configurable permissions to share items between data sets associated with the same entity. In some situations a single entity such as a work team or an individual user may want to share event items between the data sets of different calendars. For example a user may have a personal calendar with private appointments birthdays vacation details etc. as well as a work calendar with meetings office holidays and deadlines. Conventional approaches generally require the user to manually copy items from one calendar to the other or use a synchronization application that simply duplicates all items from one calendar to the other. This creates security and privacy problems as the user may not wish for a personal appointment such as a doctor s visit to be visible on their work calendars. Similarly a business may not want details of their employees confidential meetings visible on a personal calendar that may then be shared with non employees of the business.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter. Neither is this Summary intended to be used to limit the claimed subject matter s scope.

Data access sharing may be provided. Requests may be received to display an data item associated with a list of data items. Upon determining whether a property of the data item is restricted by an access control policy the property may be modified prior to rendering a display of the data item.

It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description are examples and explanatory only and should not be considered to restrict the disclosure s scope as described and claimed. Further features and or variations may be provided in addition to those set forth herein. For example embodiments of the disclosure may be directed to various feature combinations and sub combinations described in the detailed description.

The following detailed description refers to the accompanying drawings. Wherever possible the same reference numbers are used in the drawings and the following description to refer to the same or similar elements. While embodiments of the disclosure may be described modifications adaptations and other implementations are possible. For example substitutions additions or modifications may be made to the elements illustrated in the drawings and the methods described herein may be modified by substituting reordering or adding stages to the disclosed methods. Accordingly the following detailed description does not limit the disclosure. Instead the proper scope of the disclosure is defined by the appended claims.

Shared data access may be provided. Often a person may use multiple devices and or applications to keep track of data such as contact lists calendars to do items document files email SMS messages and the like. For example they may have an enterprise calendar associated with their work that may be stored and managed on their company s servers as well as a personal calendar such as may be offered with their personal email or Internet Service Provider ISP . In some situations multiple users may be part of a group such as a team within the company that may have shared data sets for tracking project progress deadlines status meetings etc.

Using a calendar application as a non limiting example a user s enterprise calendar may be encrypted to protect confidential data such as contact names meeting subjects agendas etc. In some cases however at least some of the enterprise calendar data may need to be shared to the personal calendar such as for the user s convenience in viewing a single calendar application with all of their event data. The enterprise calendar data may be analyzed to identify those properties that may not need to be kept confidential and may be shared such as the existence of an event its start end time and or a status e.g. free busy out of office tentatively busy etc. associated with the event. The non confidential data may then be published so that a single calendar view can display a user s personal events and at least some information associated with the enterprise events. In some embodiments publication and or propagation of the data may comprise exporting the data to an external location such as a web server to another application and or copying the data to another memory location in a device.

In some embodiments a user may not want their personal calendar data shared with other employees of their company or enterprise and or the enterprise may wish to protect the user s privacy by restricting the enterprise s access to the personal data. The user may still desire to let those other employees know their availability however. Similar non confidential information from the user s personal calendar may be collected and published so that the user s enterprise calendar can reflect the limited non confidential information.

Publication of the non confidential information from one calendar to another may be accomplished in several ways. In some embodiments one calendar application may subscribe to a service that receives and publishes the non confidential information from another calendar. Such a subscription may require authentication for a given entity e.g. another user an enterprise server and or an application to access even the non confidential information such as where a user may provide a Personal Identification Number PIN password or similar token to allow only those other entities the user has approved to access the event information.

In some embodiments two calendar data sets may be maintained on a single device with one data set contained within a sandbox environment that is generally unaccessible to applications and or hardware components that are not authorized to operate within the sandbox. For example all enterprise data may be required to be encrypted unless opened in a sandboxed application that does not allow the export of data within that application. The calendar data within the sandbox may be analyzed and a subset of the data that does not contain confidential data may be published to a shared storage area of the device.

In some embodiments event data may be shared between enterprise calendars of two users associated with the enterprise. For example a single calendar view may display status information for several members of a team without displaying confidential and or personal private information associated with the underlying events.

Basic functionality of user device may be provided by an operating system contained in memory . Various programmed software applications may be executed by utilizing the computing resources in user device . Applications stored in memory may be executed by processor e.g. a central processing unit or digital signal processor under the auspices of operating system . For example processor may be configured to execute applications such as web browsing applications email applications instant messaging applications and or other applications capable of receiving and or providing data.

Data provided as input to and generated as output from the application s may be stored in memory and read by processor from memory as needed during the course of application program execution. Input data may be data stored in memory by a secondary application or other source either internal or external to user device or possibly anticipated by the application and thus created with the application program at the time it was generated as a software application program. Data may be received via any of a plurality of communication ports A C of user device . Communication ports A C may allow user device to communicate with other devices and may comprise components such as an Ethernet network adapter a modem and or a wireless network connectivity interface. For example the wireless network connectivity interface may comprise one and or more of a PCI Peripheral Component Interconnect card USB Universal Serial Bus interface PCMCIA Personal Computer Memory Card International Association card SDIO Secure Digital Input Output card NewCard Cardbus a modem a wireless radio transceiver and or the like.

User device may also receive data as user input via an input component such as a keyboard a mouse a pen a stylus a sound input device a touch input device a capture device etc. A capture device may be operative to record user s and capture spoken words motions and or gestures such as with a camera and or microphone. The capture device may comprise any speech and or motion detection device capable of detecting the speech and or actions of the user s .

Data generated by applications may be stored in memory by the processor during the course of application program execution. Data may be provided to the user during application program execution by means of a display . Consistent with embodiments of this disclosure display may comprise an integrated display screen and or an output port coupled to an external display screen.

Memory may also comprise a platform library . Platform library may comprise a collection of functionality useful to multiple applications such as may be provided by an application programming interface API to a software development kit SDK . These utilities may be accessed by applications as necessary so that each application does not have to contain these utilities thus allowing for memory consumption savings and a consistent user interface.

Furthermore embodiments of this disclosure may be practiced in conjunction with a graphics library other operating systems or any other application program and is not limited to any particular application or system. The devices described with respect to the Figures may have additional features or functionality. For example user device may also include additional data storage devices removable and or non removable such as for example magnetic disks optical disks or tape not shown .

User device may store device and or user specific information in a data store such as a device profile and or a plurality of user preferences. A device profile may comprise an indication of the current position of user device and or indications of the hardware software and security attributes which describe user device . For instance the device profile may represent hardware specifications of user device version and configuration information of various software program and hardware components installed on user device data transmission protocols enabled on user device version and usage information of various resources stored on user device and or any other attributes associated with the state of user device . The device profile may further comprise data indicating a date of last virus scan of user device a date of last access by an IT representative a date of last service by the IT representative and or any other data indicating maintenance and usage of user device . Furthermore the device profile may comprise indications of the past behavior of associated users such as resources accessed charges for resource accesses and the inventory accessed from such resources. The user preferences may comprise a listing of factors that may affect the experience of the user. In particular the user preferences may include indications of the user s age gender bodily traits preferred resource types preferred venue resources and combinations thereof.

The components executed on the web server and or the enterprise server for example may comprise a synchronization service and a calendar service as well as other applications services processes systems engines or functionality not disclosed in detail herein. The synchronization service may be executed to publish calendar information from calendar service and or receive information from a calendar app executing on user device . The synchronization service may also be operable to manage subscription requests for calendar information associated with calendar service and or calendar app . In some embodiments the web server may execute a proxy service between user device and enterprise server . As used herein the term proxy service is meant to generally refer to computer executable instructions for authenticating user access credentials and device identifiers. The proxy service may execute to receive an access request from the user device for accessing enterprise resources such as the calendar service and to determine whether to grant or deny the access request. Upon determining to grant the access request the proxy service may then associate the user device with necessary enterprise access credentials to access the enterprise resources. The web server and enterprise server may include other applications services processes systems engines or functionality not discussed in detail herein.

The network may comprise for example any type of wired and or wireless network such as a wireless local area network WLAN a wireless wide area network WWAN Ethernet fiber optic network and or any other type of wired and or wireless network now known or later developed. Additionally the network may be or include the Internet intranets extranets microwave networks satellite communications cellular systems PCS infrared communications global area networks or other suitable networks etc. or any combination of such networks.

From stage method may advance to stage where web server may determine whether access to the requested data items is controlled. For example an access control policy associated with calendar service may require authentication before providing calendar data to web server and or user device . Access control policies may include device user location and or time date restrictions that must be satisfied before access is permitted. For another example calendar app may execute in a controlled environment that may need to decrypt stored information before display. In some embodiments calendar information in data store may comprise personal event information associated with a user of user device and calendar information provided by calendar service may comprise enterprise event information. The enterprise event information may be associated with a user of user device people other than the user of user device e.g. co workers and or may be associated with non person entities such as a company a product or a working group.

If the access to the requested calendar data is controlled method may advance to stage where web server may determine whether the request is authorized. For example user device may submit user and or device credentials to an authentication subroutine of calendar app and or may perform an authentication with web server and or enterprise server . Furthermore the device characteristics of the user device may be evaluated for compliance with a plurality of compliance rules. For example a compliance service that may be executed on any of the elements of operating environment may identify the device characteristics from the device profile and compare them to a listing of hardware restrictions software restrictions and or mobile device management restrictions that need to be satisfied by the user device .

The user credentials may uniquely identify the user of the user device . For example the user credentials may include a username a password a token and or biometric data related to facial recognition retina recognition fingerprint recognition and the like. User credentials may be input by a user via any suitable client side application and may be stored in the data store of the user device . Accordingly user credentials may be retrieved from the data store and or may be input by a user in connection with a request for access to the calendar data. Device credentials may also be used to authenticate the request for information separately and or in combination with the user credentials. For example. the device credentials may comprise a unique identifier and or a device profile comprising data such as a date of last virus scan a date of last access by IT a date of last tune up by IT and or any other data indicating a date of last device check. If the request is determined not to be authorized method may end at stage .

If the request is determined to be authorized at stage method may advance to stage where web server may identify data information that may be accessed. For example the authorization of user device may prohibit the display of details associated with the requested calendar information. In such a case synchronization service and or calendar service may examine each event in the enterprise calendar information and remove or modify any private confidential and or restricted properties. In some embodiments the requested calendar information may be used to generate a new set of calendar information comprising a limited subset of properties of the events in the requested calendar information such as start and end times dates and or statuses such as free busy out of office tentatively busy etc. For another example synchronization service may determine that none of an enterprise contact list may be propagated outside of the enterprise environment regardless of a user s authorization.

After identifying the data information at stage method may advance to stage where web server may publish the identified data information. For example synchronization service may create a data file of the limited subset of event properties that may be accessed by user device . For another example web server may allow the publication of a list of messages e.g e mail voicemail and or SMS messages received and who they are from without permitting access to the content of those messages.

Method may then advance to stage where user device may integrate the requested calendar information. For example calendar app may integrate personal calendar data with the published event information into a single view. Examples of such a view are described below with respect to . Method may then end at stage .

The embodiments and functionalities described herein may operate via a multitude of computing systems including wired and wireless computing systems mobile computing systems e.g. mobile telephones tablet or slate type computers laptop computers etc. . In addition the embodiments and functionalities described herein may operate over distributed systems where application functionality memory data storage and retrieval and various processing functions may be operated remotely from each other over a distributed computing network such as the Internet or an intranet. User interfaces and information of various types may be displayed via on board computing device displays or via remote display units associated with one or more computing devices. For example user interfaces and information of various types may be displayed and interacted with on a wall surface onto which user interfaces and information of various types are projected. Interaction with the multitude of computing systems with which embodiments of this disclosure may be practiced include keystroke entry touch screen entry voice or other audio entry gesture entry where an associated computing device is equipped with detection e.g. camera functionality for capturing and interpreting user gestures for controlling the functionality of the computing device and the like. The Figures above and their associated descriptions provide a discussion of a variety of operating environments in which embodiments of this disclosure may be practiced. However the devices and systems illustrated and discussed with respect to the Figures are for purposes of example and illustration and are not limiting of a vast number of computing device configurations that may be utilized for practicing embodiments of this disclosure as described herein.

The term computer readable media as used herein may include computer storage media. Computer storage media may include volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. System memory removable storage and non removable storage are all computer storage media examples i.e. memory storage. Computer storage media may include but is not limited to RAM ROM electrically erasable read only memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store.

The term computer readable media as used herein may also include communication media. Communication media may be embodied by computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal may describe a signal that has one or more characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media may include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic radio frequency RF infrared and other wireless media.

A number of applications and data files may be used to perform processes and or methods as described above. The aforementioned processes are examples and a processing unit may perform other processes. Other programming modules that may be used in accordance with embodiments of this disclosure may include electronic mail calendar and contacts applications data processing applications word processing applications spreadsheet applications database applications slide presentation applications drawing or computer aided application programs etc.

Generally consistent with embodiments of this disclosure program modules may include routines programs components data structures and other types of structures that may perform particular tasks or that may implement particular abstract data types. Moreover embodiments of the disclosure may be practiced with other computer system configurations including hand held devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics minicomputers mainframe computers and the like. Embodiments of this disclosure may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

Furthermore embodiments of this disclosure may be practiced in an electrical circuit comprising discrete electronic elements packaged or integrated electronic chips containing logic gates a circuit utilizing a microprocessor or on a single chip containing electronic elements or microprocessors. Embodiments of this disclosure may also be practiced using other technologies capable of performing logical operations such as for example AND OR and NOT including but not limited to mechanical optical fluidic and quantum technologies. In addition embodiments of the disclosure may be practiced within a general purpose computer or in any other circuits or systems.

Embodiments of this disclosure may for example be implemented as a computer process and or method a computing system an apparatus device or appliance and or as an article of manufacture such as a computer program product or computer readable media. The computer program product may be a computer storage media readable by a computer system and encoding a computer program of instructions for executing a computer process. The computer program product may also be a propagated signal on a carrier readable by a computing system and encoding a computer program of instructions for executing a computer process. Accordingly the present disclosure may be embodied in hardware and or in software including firmware resident software micro code etc. . In other words embodiments of the present disclosure may take the form of a computer program product on a computer usable or computer readable storage medium having computer usable or computer readable program code embodied in the medium for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system. A computer usable or computer readable medium may be any medium that can contain store communicate propagate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device.

The computer usable or computer readable medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus device or propagation medium. More specific computer readable medium examples a non exhaustive list the computer readable medium may include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber and a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM . Note that the computer usable or computer readable medium could even be paper or another suitable medium upon which the program is printed as the program can be electronically captured via for instance optical scanning of the paper or other medium then compiled interpreted or otherwise processed in a suitable manner if necessary and then stored in a computer memory.

Embodiments of this disclosure may be practiced via a system on a chip SOC where each and or many of the elements described above may be integrated onto a single integrated circuit. Such an SOC device may include one or more processing units graphics units communications units system virtualization units and various application functionalities all of which may be integrated or burned onto the chip substrate as a single integrated circuit. When operating via an SOC the functionality described herein with respect to training and or interacting with any element may operate via application specific logic integrated with other components of the computing device system on the single integrated circuit chip .

Embodiments of this disclosure are described above with reference to block diagrams and or operational illustrations of methods systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the disclosure. The functions acts noted in the blocks may occur out of the order as shown in any flowchart. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality acts involved.

While certain embodiments have been described other embodiments may exist. Furthermore although embodiments of the present disclosure have been described as being associated with data stored in memory and other storage mediums data can also be stored on or read from other types of computer readable media such as secondary storage devices like hard disks floppy disks or a CD ROM a carrier wave from the Internet or other forms of RAM or ROM. Further the disclosed methods stages may be modified in any manner including by reordering stages and or inserting or deleting stages without departing from the disclosure.

Embodiments of the present disclosure for example are described above with reference to block diagrams and or operational illustrations of methods systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the disclosure. The functions acts noted in the blocks may occur out of the order as shown in any flowchart. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality acts involved.

While certain embodiments of the disclosure have been described other embodiments may exist. Furthermore although embodiments of the present disclosure have been described as being associated with data stored in memory and other storage mediums data can also be stored on or read from other types of computer readable media such as secondary storage devices like hard disks floppy disks or a CD ROM a carrier wave from the Internet or other forms of RAM or ROM. Further the disclosed methods stages may be modified in any manner including by reordering stages and or inserting or deleting stages without departing from the disclosure.

All rights including copyrights in the code included herein are vested in and the property of the Assignee. The Assignee retains and reserves all rights in the code included herein and grants permission to reproduce the material only in connection with reproduction of the granted patent and for no other purpose.

While the specification includes examples the disclosure s scope is indicated by the following claims. Furthermore while the specification has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts the claims are not limited to the features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example for embodiments of the disclosure.

