---

title: System and method providing permission based access to automotive computers
abstract: A Link device has a processor connected to an internal Link bus, a non-transitory memory, a digital device ID, one or both of firmware or software executing from non-transitory media, a first communication port enabled to communicate with a vehicle bus coupling computerized devices in a vehicle, and a second communication port enabled to communicate with one or more digital devices external to the vehicle. The firmware or software enables the Link device to communicate with the vehicle bus, and to accomplish a variety of tasks including pulling data from data stores in the vehicle and operating specific vehicle functions, and wherein the firmware or software manages communication with the one or more external digital devices, accepting only requests for cooperation with the Link device using the unique device ID with a request that is cryptographically secure.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09471795&OS=09471795&RS=09471795
owner: Automatic Labs, Inc.
number: 09471795
owner_city: San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131008
---
The present application claims priority to provisional patent application PPA Ser. No. 61 712 388 filed Oct. 11 2012 and all disclosure of the referenced PPA is incorporated herein at least by reference.

The present invention is in the technical field of computer implemented inventions and pertains more particularly to enabling secure access to on board computerized systems in vehicles such as automobiles.

Sophisticated computers control most vehicles sold at the time of the present patent application. These computers and the data they generate cannot be easily accessed and manipulated by software developers. The only way to access the computers is through an Onboard Diagnostics Port OBD present in most modern automobiles and trucks which couples to the vehicle s Controller Area Network CAN bus. However accessing the computers and the internal networks of a vehicle through this port requires dedicated hardware and software. It also requires specialized knowledge of protocols used to communicate with computerized systems in vehicles. This prevents most software developers from accessing the computers and data available in vehicles and building useful applications for them. What is needed is a secure system that makes automobile computers and data more easily and securely accessible.

In an embodiment of the invention a Link device is provided comprising a processor connected to an internal Link bus a non transitory memory coupled to the Link bus a digital device ID unique to the Link device one or both of firmware or software executing from non transitory media a first communication port enabled to communicate with a vehicle bus coupling computerized devices in a vehicle and a second communication port enabled to communicate with one or more digital devices external to the vehicle. The firmware or software enables the Link device to communicate with the vehicle bus and to accomplish a variety of tasks including pulling data from data stores in the vehicle and operating specific vehicle functions and wherein the firmware or software manages communication with the one or more external digital devices accepting only requests for cooperation with the Link device using the unique device ID with a request that is cryptographically secure.

In one embodiment a security key is associated with the Link device and to be processed the request for cooperation must be signed using the security Key. Also in one embodiment the Link device is hard wired into circuitry of the vehicle. Also in one embodiment the link device is coupled to an On Board Diagnostics OBD connector and connected to an OBD connector of the vehicle.

In another embodiment the second communication port comprises cellular circuitry for connecting with a cellular wireless network. In yet another embodiment the second communication port comprises near field pairing circuitry enabled for connecting to a digital device in range that is also enabled for compatible near field pairing. In still another embodiment the digital device in range is a mobile communication appliance associated with a specific user that is also associated with the vehicle.

In another embodiment the mobile communication device executes an application bearing a specific and unique App ID. Also in another embodiment once a request for cooperation is approved the requesting application is enabled to cause the link device to accomplish individual tasks from the variety of enabled tasks. In yet another embodiment access to tasks in the variety of tasks is limited for individual users seeking access to the Link device by an authorized user selecting to allow only individual ones of the tasks in the variety of tasks. In another embodiment selection of tasks is made in a dialogue window presented to the authorized user.

In another aspect of the invention a method is provided comprising steps of coupling a Link device to a vehicle bus coupling computerized devices in a vehicle the Link device having a processor connected to an internal Link bus a non transitory memory coupled to the Link bus a device ID unique to the Link device one or both of firmware or software executing from non transitory media and a communication port enabled to communicate with one or more digital devices external to the vehicle receiving a request to cooperate by the Link device from an external digital device via the communication port approving the request to cooperate only if it references the device ID and is cryptographically secure and granting to the external digital device ability to accomplish a variety of tasks including pulling data from data stores in the vehicle and operating specific vehicle functions.

In one embodiment of the method a security key is associated with the Link device and approval requires that the request for cooperation must be signed using the security Key. Also in one embodiment the Link device is hard wired into circuitry of the vehicle. Also in one embodiment the link device is coupled to an On Board Diagnostics OBD connector and connected to an OBD connector of the vehicle. In still another embodiment the communication port comprises cellular circuitry for connecting with a cellular wireless network.

In another embodiment of the method the communication port comprises near field pairing circuitry enabled for connecting to a digital device in range that is also enabled for compatible near field pairing. In another embodiment the digital device in range is a mobile communication appliance associated with a specific user that is also associated with the vehicle. In still another embodiment the mobile communication device executes an application bearing a specific and unique App ID.

In another embodiment once a request for cooperation is approved the requesting application is enabled to cause the link device to accomplish individual tasks from the variety of enabled tasks. In yet another embodiment access to tasks in the variety of tasks is limited for individual users seeking access to the Link device by an authorized user selecting to allow only individual ones of the tasks in the variety of tasks. In still another embodiment selection of tasks is made in a dialogue window presented to the authorized user.

Smart phone has a display which may be a touch screen display and is coupled wirelessly to a cellular network for placing and receiving calls and accessing the well known Internet network through a gateway in the cellular network. Thus device is capable by execution of a browser application to access web pages of sites in the Internet and capable of transmitting data to and receiving data from such sites.

One capability of link as described briefly above is near field pairing such as by Bluetooth wireless pairing. Link may therefore by in wireless communication with device also enabled for Bluetooth pairing.

Computers in modern cars have numerous capabilities. These includes things as simple as indicating how fast the vehicle is moving velocity to unlocking the car s doors. Most of these capabilities are exposed through the car s Onboard Diagnostics Port OBD port . The communication protocol to communicate with the car s computers to get information like velocity is fairly standardized into a few known protocols. Other actions like unlocking the door may be communicating over some manufacture specific proprietary protocol.

Link in various embodiments of the present invention is connected to the OBD Port of a vehicle as is shown in and acts like a wireless gateway to the vehicle s OBD system through the vehicle s OBD port. Link presents itself as an Application Programming Interface API which is accessible wirelessly. Capabilities of the Link are available for use by any application written to leverage these APIs. One such application is SW described above. The host enterprise controls SW completely and can ensure no malicious activity will happen through the SW the enterprise does not have complete control over software written or provided by third party entities. This there is a need for a secure API which can authenticate different software applications to access specific capabilities of Link device .

As a specific example SW may be provided in a manner to be able to wirelessly unlock the vehicle s doors and also to be able to access from the OBD system the vehicle s velocity in real time but the enterprise wants to limit third party applications to only access the real time velocity and not be able to unlock the vehicle s doors.

Access Control ACL in embodiments of the invention is provided to selectively access any capabilities provided by the Automatic Link. The mechanism is similar to Facebook API. Software applications written to leverage the Facebook API are allowed to access only specific personal information the user has allowed the application to access like only the user s email address and phone number but not relationship status or date of birth. In embodiments of the present invention the same fine grained ACL is enabled to capabilities and information available in the vehicle s computer.

In one embodiment of the present invention a secure API is achieved in this way Firstly every Link manufactured and sold to a user has in memory a specific secret Key which is unique to that Link and also a unique Identifier Device ID . The Key and Device ID are indicated as elements and in . Every Link sold is entered and tracked by the enterprise server and only the server has the unique secret key for each Link in the field.

When a Link is sold the buyer user is registered and associated with a User ID. When an application is developed to use the secure API and provided to the public the application is also assigned a unique identifier as an App ID.

A software abstraction layer is executed by every Link in embodiments of the invention and that layer as a filter in the Link expects and looks for a sequence of data specifically generated for a given User ID and App ID to specify what capabilities should be exposed to the user when using the particular application with that App ID. The sequence of data is further expected to be Cryptographically Signed using the Secret Key of the specific Link known only to Server hosted by the enterprise that sells the Links and manages the use of Links and Applications through Server . Signing is a common mechanism used to identify two parties to each other communicating over an insecure channel.

When a user accesses an Application with an App ID the user is presented with a user Interface dialog window that enables the user to select and deny capabilities and information that will be allowed through his or her Link coupled to the OBD port in the user s vehicle.

The Save command sends the selection to the host Server which validates the request and sends back the specific sequence of data as described above which includes the configuration and the ID of both the App and the Link. The sequence is relayed to the link by the near field pairing communication such as Bluetooth and the SW abstraction layer in the Link validates the sequence by confirming if it was indeed signed by the Secret Key of the given device.

Once the signature is verified by the filter in the Link the user and the application are then allowed to access the capabilities that were chosen in the dialogue of . If the signature does not conform to what the Link device expects any request for accessing the selected capabilities is denied in the Software Abstraction Layer.

The Dialog informing the user about the required permissions is strictly controlled by the enterprise server or the App executing in the user s device or by both in combination. This is important to avoid situations where the user may be shown a limited set of capabilities in the Dialog but the request sent to the server has additional capabilities the user for which the user did not give explicit permission.

In various embodiments of the present invention a wide variety of applications that may be executed by a user s communication device may be developed and provided for a wide variety of use cases and may be configured to access a Link having the capabilities described and taught herein in particular APIs facing a vehicle s internal computer systems and secure access and use through Device ID and Key. The unique capabilities of the Link as described and taught herein enable SW developers to create apps that are configured to work through the unique Links without having to have and to program specific protocols and details that would be necessary without the standard provided by the unique Links provided herein.

In some embodiments an application executing on user s device or at server may access a Link by specific ID and update software or firmware or both of the Link. In these embodiments a unique sequence including the device ID and the Key in the Link and a special string enabling the update or action is sent by the wireless connection to the Link and the link may recognize and authorize the update request after which the requested changes in software or firmware may be made by the requesting device with following instructions and data recognized by the Link.

In some other embodiments special requests may be made through wireless sequence including Link ID and Key and a string requesting a unique action related to the vehicle s computer system through its CAN bus such an action perhaps designed to alter data or action of the internal computer system of the vehicle.

It will be apparent to the skilled person that there are amendments and variations that may be made in the examples and embodiments described in this specification that do not alter the overall concept of the invention. There are for example many different ways that the components of the Links may be provided and arranged to interact and many variations in the ways that applications may be programmed that are not explicitly described herein but do not affect the scope of the invention. The scope of the invention is limited only by the claims that follow.

