---

title: System and methods for analyzing content engagement in conjunction with social media
abstract: Various embodiments disclose a system and methods for media content analysis based at least in part upon social media data. In some embodiments, a computer system may identify social media messages corresponding to televised content. For example, following the uploading of a television show (or advertisement) to an Internet website, or transmission across a television network, viewers and non-viewers of the show may begin commenting upon the show. The system may correlate the number of viewers of the show with the social media messages to generate one or more metrics describing relations between the show's viewership and the show's social media effects.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09609386&OS=09609386&RS=09609386
owner: RENTAK CORPORATION
number: 09609386
owner_city: Portland
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131218
---
This application claims the priority and benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 738 978 entitled ANALYZING TELEVISION AUDIENCE ENGAGEMENT USING SOCIAL MEDIA filed Dec. 18 2012 the contents of which are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety for all purposes.

The popularity of social media has grown rapidly in recent times. For example a few years ago social media was considered an esoteric novelty used by only a few early technology adopters. In contrast today the rate of content generation for the social media service provider Facebook alone exceeds one billion messages per day.

This explosive growth trend has caught the advertising industry substantially off guard. As a result many in the industry are not able to effectively and advantageously utilize this rich new resource of user generated content. For example television shows are still judged by metrics such as television rating points which fail to account for differences in viewer engagement levels from one show to another. As a result less than optimal decisions are made regarding which television programs should be maintained which should be cut at what time the programs should be disseminated to the viewing audience and the prices that should be charged for the commercials.

Accordingly an opportunity exists for developing new techniques to more effectively evaluate and analyze audience engagement levels for various televised content. The need exists for a system and methods that overcome the above problems as well as provide additional benefits. Overall the examples herein of some prior or related system and their associated limitations are intended to be illustrative and not exclusive. Other shortcomings of existing or prior systems will become apparent to those of skill in the art upon reading the following Detailed Description.

The headings provided herein are for convenience only and do not necessarily affect the scope or meaning of the claimed embodiments. Some components and or operations may be separated into different blocks or combined into a single block for the purposes of discussion of some of the embodiments. Moreover while the various embodiments are amenable to various modifications and alternative forms specific embodiments have been shown by way of example in the drawings and are described in detail below. The intention however is not to limit the particular embodiments described. On the contrary the embodiments are intended to cover all modifications equivalents and alternatives falling within the scope of the disclosed embodiments as defined by the appended claims.

A television engagement analyzer that calculates a viewing audience engagement measurement for specified televised content using social media data e.g. social media messages as part of the analysis is disclosed herein. In some embodiments the calculation can be performed by comparing or correlating a number of social media messages e.g. messages generated on social media services associated with the specified televised content by a number of viewers who watched the specified televised content. The comparison can involve a ratio or other statistical means to compare or correlate the two numbers e.g. signal processing and correlation determination methods . In some embodiments the analyzer uses television viewing data to determine the number of viewers who watched a specified televised content. In some embodiments the analyzer can utilize televised content data to determine criteria for filtering the social media messages. The criteria for filtering can include keywords times or locations. One or more factors may be weighted in some embodiments so that it is accorded greater or less deference e.g. a term unique to the content appearing in the message will be given more weight than a more generic term . The analyzer can filter social media messages that are associated with the specified televised content and can furthermore analyze the social media messages in terms of content or sentiment as described in greater detail herein.

Various embodiments of the disclosed technology will now be described with reference to the figures. The following description provides specific details for a thorough understanding and enabling description of these embodiments. One skilled in the art will understand however that the invention can be practiced without many of these details. Additionally some well known structures or functions may not be shown or described in detail so as to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the relevant description of the various embodiments.

The terminology used in the description presented herein is intended to be interpreted in its broadest reasonable manner even though it is being used in conjunction with a detailed description of certain specific embodiments of the invention. Certain terms may even be emphasized herein however any terminology intended to be interpreted in any restricted manner will be overtly and specifically defined as such in this Detailed Description section.

Additionally the television engagement analyzer accepts one or more parameters such as televised content selection parameters demographic selection parameters and or other analysis parameters . In some embodiments the parameters can be provided by a human operator and instruct the analyzer on how to perform a desired analysis. The human operator can indicate televised content selection parameters to specify which televised content the analyzer should use to analyze audience engagement. The human operator can utilize a user interface such as a computer terminal to specify the analysis parameters . The user interface can be part of a Web application a Web site a standalone application on a computer etc. In some embodiments an automatic algorithm can specify parameters rather than rely upon user input. For example the analyzer can iterate through each television program or advertisement in a list of programs or advertisements one or more at a time looking for specific keywords that can then be used to specify the social media data with which to be compared.

The televised content data includes data about one or more televised programs one or more televised advertisements or a combination of the two. This data may be generated by a television set top box or other hardware that detects the change of a channel or other user interaction with the television. The data so produced may contain e.g. a a unique identifier of the television or other viewing device b a date time stamp and c a content identifier such as a channel number or network name. Additionally there may be data regarding the use of a Digital Video Recorder or other time shifting device and the viewing data may be further supplemented by a household identifier a geographic location such as ZIP code and or demographics about the viewer or the household. The data may be plain text encoded binary format or XML or other format. The analyzer can select the appropriate televised content data that corresponds to the televised content selection parameters .

In some embodiments portions or all of the televised content data can be provided by an external provider for analysis by the engagement analyzer . The data can be periodically received by the analyzer or the analyzer can access one or more external databases to retrieve the data. The analyzer can obtain televised content data e.g. in the form of as run logs provided by television distributors data from advertisement schedule providers or from program schedule providers or from other third party databases such as from IMDb.com the Internet Movie Database service affiliated with Amazon.com Inc. of Seattle Wash.

The television viewing data contains information about the viewing behavior of multiple viewing entities . For example the television viewing data can be derived transmitted or collected from television set top box viewing data. In various aspects each viewing entity can be a household an individual a particular display screen or the like. Indeed there may be a large number of viewing entities e.g. thousands or millions. The viewing data can be provided from a variety of sources for example a television service such as a DBS Digital Broadcast Satellite service provider a cable television MSO multiple system operator a data warehouse or other third party and so on. Additional details regarding collection and processing of set top box viewing data can be found in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 543 770 filed on Jul. 6 2012 entitled Aggregation Based Methods for Detection and Correction of Television Viewership Aberrations Applicant Ref. No. 74182 8020US00 the content of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The social media data contains messages and other content that is posted or provided to social media services by entities . The social media data can be provided to the television engagement analyzer by one or more social media services such as Facebook Inc. of Menlo Park Calif. or Twitter Inc. of San Francisco Calif. In some embodiments multiple social media services will be aggregated together for example when the analyzer accesses the data from multiple different sources. The social media data can include user generated content such as message posts e.g. Facebook wall posts Twitter feeds or tweets comments other textual content uploaded media such as pictures video clips Web log contents and so on collectively referred to herein as social media messages . In some aspects social media data can be provided by a third party social media aggregation and analysis service.

Social media data is typically vast encompassing a wide range of topics of which television related content is only a fraction. The analyzer can use the televised content data to identify a portion of the social media data that is relevant to the televised content being analyzed. The analyzer uses various criteria to identify the social media content that is related to the televised content. Such criteria may include but is not limited to a location where the television viewing occurred a time when the televised content was viewed and keywords associated with the televised content. The analyzer uses the criteria to identify the portion of the social media data that is likely associated with the televised content. As will be explained in greater detail below the analyzer in some embodiments can use one or more keywords associated time stamps and associated locations of the social media data to determine which of the social media content matches correlates with or corresponds to the televised content being analyzed. In some embodiments social media data can be obtained from a specialty television social media system wherein users indicate explicitly what television content they are commenting on.

For privacy purposes the social media data can mask obfuscate or omit personal identification information to ensure privacy of users. In some embodiments however the sources of the social media data may be directly identifiable from the data itself e.g. the Twitter feed of a television Director and the analyzer can utilize that information to match the content for example by keyword matching.

In some embodiments the analyzer produces a television viewing audience engagement measurement by comparing viewership and social media messaging. For example with reference to the process of at block the system may calculate using the television viewing data or access a viewership number corresponding to the television content being analyzed. For example the system may determine a number of set top boxes tuned to a channel displaying the content at the time the content was streamed. At block the system may determine the number of social media messages corresponding to the television content being analyzed. For example the system may apply filtering criteria to a plurality of social messages for example Twitter feeds or tweets to identify messages whose textual content pertains to the television content. In some embodiments the system may determine if clips or screenshots of the content are being exchanged between the social media users. At block the system may determine an audience engagement level using the viewership number and the number of social media messages. For example an associated social media activity per viewer unit can be calculated by dividing the viewership number for a piece of content by a count of the number of corresponding social media messages associated with that piece of content. In some embodiments correlations between the viewership number and the number of social media messages can be used to infer causal relations e.g. whether the content or some other factor is increasing viewership as discussed with reference to below .

In some embodiments different viewer units can be utilized e.g. a single viewing household or 1 000 viewing households etc. depending on the business purpose of the analysis. The analyzer can also calculate other measurements using the viewership number and social media message number such as calculating a correlation between television viewing ratings and associated social media activity. The correlation may for example indicate how many people generate social media messages regarding a particular television content. As another example the analyzer can calculate how many people or alternately what portion of people who have watched televised content have not generated social media messages relating to that televised content. This calculated information can be useful for the content industry advertising industry or other producers or users to better understand the viewers behaviors or interests as well as various demographic relations.

The example televised content data includes televised program data for a program identified as Lost Season 6 Episode 6 . The date and time of day that the example program was televised was Mar. 9 2010 from 9 00 PM to 10 00 PM local time in this example but may alternately be national time or East Coast time or any other suitable time convention. As indicated the program has a televised duration of 1 hour. The location of the audience it was televised to was the United States and the network it was televised on was ABC the American Broadcasting Company broadcasting network . Other portions of the televised content data for this example program include the episode title Dr. Linus the program s actors Naveen Andrews and others the program s characters Sayid Jarah and others the program s plot and the program s closed captioning text. The ellipses in this example indicate that additional data is present. This additional data which can include additional televised program data and televised commercial data is not illustrated for brevity.

The analyzer can determine that the televised content data for Lost Season 6 Episode 6 is relevant for analysis because its program identifier matches that of the example parameters. The matching may be based on keywords or by a combination of keyword date and time. Additionally more sophisticated algorithms can be used to identify a match using contextual cues . Based on the match the analyzer associates the televised content being analyzed with the aforementioned date time of day broadcast network broadcast location and so on. Additionally the analyzer can associate one or more keywords such as those from the plot summary actor s names etc. with the content being analyzed. In some embodiments the analyzer can ignore commonly used words from being considered as keywords e.g. as described in additional detail below.

The example television viewing data includes a tuning event for a set top box having the identifier 1A357C9001 . The tuning event indicates that on Mar. 9 2012 at 9 10 PM the set top box became tuned to the channel 4 corresponding to the broadcast network ABC and remained tuned to that channel until 10 02 PM. Additional tuning events and set top box identifiers are not shown for brevity in this example.

In some embodiments television viewing data can be formatted differently or presented at a different level of detail than displayed in . For example in some embodiments the television viewing data can be already partially analyzed such as when the data represents the aggregated tuning behavior of groups of set top boxes. Also additional or different data can be included in the viewing data besides that which is illustrated such as a zip code household identifier or other location information of the viewing entity or set top box etc. In some embodiments rather than or in addition to the television viewing data being acquired from set top boxes the viewing data can be acquired by using peoplemeters and or by the use of surveying techniques. These techniques can estimate the number of viewers of a larger population based on a sample subset of the population.

The example social media data includes a social media message e.g. a Facebook wall posting. The representative message depicted in is textual content including the name of the series being analyzed Lost and the name of a character on the series Sayid . In this example the analyzer can match keywords from the example televised content data and the example parameters to determine whether the social media content corresponds to the televised content being analyzed. The analyzer can also analyze the time at which the message was generated Mar. 9 2010 9 45 PM to determine whether the message time is within or near the time of the television broadcast content being analyzed Mar. 9 2010 9 PM 10 PM . The analyzer can also analyze the location associated with the message Los Angeles Calif. with the location of the market where the television content was televised United States to determine whether the message originated in a market where the content was actually being shown Although the program is illustrated as being broadcast at the same time sometimes programs are broadcast at different times in different markets or time zones e.g. Central Eastern and Western markets may be broadcast at different times . The analyzer can take these different broadcast events into consideration by adjusting the parameters used to match social media events to television content.

The example social viewing audience engagement measurement area illustrates some intermediate values which can be calculated by the analyzer in some embodiments viewing audience size . . . and messages matched . . . in addition to an example associated social media activity per viewer unit calculation and a corresponding engagement grade or index . In this example the system calculated 87 associated social media messages per 1000 viewers by dividing 812 000 matched social media messages by a 9 330 000 viewing audience size and multiplying the result by the viewer unit which is 1 000 viewers in the depicted example.

In this example the system awards a social media based engagement grade of A . The analyzer can assign an engagement grade by determining within which one of multiple grading brackets the social media messages per viewer unit fits. For example the system can quantize the social media messages per viewer value based on the number of available grades. In this example the letter grade of A can have certain minimum and maximum values below or above which a different grade would have been assigned. The bracket boundary values for the various grades can be determined empirically based on a wide range of televised programs and or commercials so that an assigned grade concisely meaningfully and or accurately conveys the engagement level of an average viewer of the televised content being analyzed in relation to the engagement levels of the wide range of content. For example a C grade can be empirically defined to convey a social media based engagement level that is approximately average. The grades may be assigned for example using a statistical analysis of past data for a given set of bench mark or baseline cases.

At block the analyzer accesses the television viewing data in order to determine the viewers who watched the selected televised content. Although not shown the analyzer can also access the televised content data to make this determination. At block the analyzer determines viewership for the selected televised content using the accessed television viewing data e.g. by counting the number of viewers corresponding to the selected televised content.

In parallel or serially at block the analyzer accesses the televised content data . At block the analyzer determines the matching criteria e.g. time or day and time of day keywords location that is to be used to analyze the social media data. As noted herein different techniques can be utilized for matching the social media messages with the selected content. At block the analyzer accesses the social media data . The social media data is then filtered by the analyzer in step using the matching criteria. The filtering can be performed to determine which social media messages correspond to the televised content selected in block .

At block the filtered or matched social media messages are then aggregated by the analyzer. In some aspects social media messages can be partially matched meaning that it doesn t fully satisfy all of the matching parameters or matched with a corresponding confidence score. This score can estimate the confidence in the match by the analyzer. In some embodiments a minimum confidence score can be specified in the other analysis parameters and the analyzer will discard any matches that do not exceed the minimum confidence score. In some embodiments the filtered social media messages can be weighted by the analyzer according to their confidence so that for example a message matched with low confidence is only counted partially while a message matched with high confidence is counted fully. Processing then proceeds to block where the analyzer calculates a social media activity per viewership unit . In some embodiments the social media activity per viewership unit results can be used by advertisers or content channels to better understand the effectiveness or reach of certain content.

A televised content selecting component selects televised content to be analyzed e.g. in accordance with inputs received from a user interface from a human operator. In some embodiments the televised content selecting component can select televised content based on the parameters such as the televised content selection parameters and any demographic selection parameters . In some aspects the televised content selecting component accesses and uses televised content data to confirm refine or obtain additional information about the selected televised content e.g. to allow a user to specify a program by its name and convert this into a date time of day network location etc. of a broadcast .

The keywords selection component can find keywords associated with the selected televised content. In order to find keywords that are useful for filtering social media commonly used keywords may be skipped or when encountered may be combined with one or more additional keywords that are required to be present. Common keywords can be determined by applying an inverse document frequency calculation such as one that calculates the number of message entries in the social media data that refer to the term or some variant known in the art. Semantic indexing and other algorithms can also be used. If the inverse document frequency of a keyword exceeds a predefined threshold it may signal to the keywords determining component that the keyword is not specific enough. Additional or alternate keywords may instead be found and utilized if possible.

Alternately or additionally the inverse document frequency can be used to assign a score to the keyword for use in computing a message s weight such as the confidence score described above. The keywords are utilized by the message keywords filtering component for identifying a portion of the social media messages that correspond to the selected televised content. The message keywords filtering component is one of other filtering components and that the analyzer can utilize in various combinations for performing the step of identifying social media messages using matching criteria. Other types of matching criteria besides keywords may include time matching criteria location matching criteria and demographic matching criteria.

The time matching criteria determined by the time determining component are not necessarily the same time as that when the show was transmitted or broadcast to the viewers. Because users may generate social media messages about televised content after it is viewed e.g. after a program broadcast has ended or even before a program has been transmitted e.g. in anticipation of a program that has yet to be viewed the time determining component may add a time range before and or after the actual time or dates that the selected content was televised. For example the time determining component can determine a time criterion covering the 1 hour before or after the broadcast the entire day of the broadcast several days or even weeks or months before or after a broadcast and so on. The message time filtering component can then further filter the social media data based on the determined time criteria.

Location matching criteria can be similarly altered such as to increase a matching geographic boundary to account for people traveling after having watched a televised program before generating corresponding social media messages or having a social media account associated with a location that only loosely corresponds to their actual location e.g. a user in Piedmont Calif. may have a social media location that only specifies United States . The message location filtering component can apply the determined location criteria to further filter the social media data .

In some embodiments the analyzer infers a location associated with a social media message. For example if a social media user has a location specified in the user s social media profile such as a specified home town this location can be inferred as the location of their generated messages. As another example a likely location of a user who generated content can be inferred from cached network information associated with the user e.g. a cached internet protocol address for the user from which a location can be derived a cached cellular tower identifier for the user or cached global positioning service GPS coordinates for the user etc. . If the user uploaded multimedia files to a social media service that is reflected in the social media data the analyzer can extract and utilize location information stored therein. For example if the user captured a Joint Photographic Experts Group JPEG formatted image file using a digital camera Exchangeable Image File Format EXIF tags embedded inside the JPEG file could contain GPS coordinates specifying the location of the camera at the time the photo was captured as well as the time that the photo was captured. If the user published this image file using a social media service the analyzer can extract and utilize that information to infer the location of the user at that particular time and associate the location to some or all of the user s messages.

When requested such as by a human operator demographic filtering can be applied by the demographic selecting component and the message demographic filtering component . For example a particular age range of viewers and or social media content authors such as 18 24 years old can be specified e.g. in the demographic selection parameters for analysis. This allows the human operator to analyze compare and contrast varying social media and television viewing activity for various audience demographics.

In some aspects as was described above the filtering components can work in an additive sense meaning that each additionally filters the social media data to be progressively smaller and smaller. In other words the analyzer when performing a search for social media messages matching the criteria applies an and operation across the filtering criteria. In other aspects messages filtered by each criterion are joined together yielding an or operation on the criteria for the performance of a search. In some aspects a first portion of the criteria can be processed using the and operation while a second portion can be processed using the or operation. Alternately or additionally all or some portion of the criteria can be processed with a not operation and furthermore the order of the operations processing may be varied yielding many possible Boolean combinations and ways in which the filtering could be performed. The filtering may be optimized to provide good results that balance the minimization of false positives with the minimization of false negatives. A false positive is a social media message that does not correspond to televised content e.g. is erroneously determined to correspond to that televised content. A false negative is a social media message that corresponds to televised content but was missed e.g. mistakenly determined to not correspond .

The social media message aggregating component counts the number of social media messages identified by the component and may perform other aggregation operations. The aggregating component can maintain different statistics about the social media messages such as the number or users who generated messages a number of messages generated a number of viewings of identified social media messages etc.

A viewership determination component determines the viewership associated with the selected televised content such as by accessing the television viewing data and determining which of the viewing data corresponds to the selected televised content e.g. how many viewers viewed the content . In some embodiments different criteria can be applied to determine viewership e.g. whether the set top box only had to tune in some portion of the televised content or whether it had to tune in the entire duration of the televised content in order to count the viewing. In some embodiments digital video recorder viewing which may occur at a time after an initial broadcast internet protocol television viewing on demand television viewing and alternate video distribution technologies could be utilized by the component . For example the other analysis parameters can specify that time shifted viewing resulting from digital video recorders should not be included should not be included if viewed later than X days e.g. 5 days after broadcast should be included regardless of when it was viewed or even included exclusively instead of live viewing data and so on. The desired analysis can be specified in the other analysis parameters .

An engagement measurement calculating component calculates one or more television viewing audience engagement measurements by using the viewership determined by the component in conjunction with a measurement of the social media activity aggregated by the component . For example the engagement measurement calculating component can calculate the 87 associated social media messages per 1000 viewers and or the social media based viewer engagement A grade illustrated in engagement measurement .

Some additional details regarding the analyzer including the manner in which it can collect and use television viewing data can be found in systems described in e.g. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 701 959 filed on Feb. 1 2007 entitled System and Methods for Measuring Targeting Verifying and Reporting Advertising Impressions Applicant Ref. No. 74182 8003US01 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 081 437 filed on Apr. 6 2011 entitled Method and System for Detecting Non Powered Video Playback Devices Applicant Ref. No. 74182 8006US00 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 096 964 filed on Apr. 28 2011 entitled Method and System for Program Presentation Analysis Applicant Ref. No. 74182 8007US00 each of which is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety.

In some embodiments the televised content selection parameters can include other types of parameters than those illustrated in . For example the parameters can specify one or more times during which the televised content for selection was presented to viewers on which particular network or channels it was presented and in which markets or locations it was presented. In some aspects the televised content selection parameters can specify a series of multiple programs e.g. all episodes of Lost season 6 or all episodes of all seasons of Lost or all programs presented on the broadcast network ABC or all programs corresponding to a particular genre such as reality television programs and so on.

In some embodiments the televised content selection parameters can specify one or more particular commercials for example the 3rd commercial presented during the 2nd ad pod of Lost Season 6 episode 6 or all commercials presented for a particular televised advertising campaign and so on . The televised selection parameters can specify all content presented in a selected region or to a selected viewer demographic or all unique content presented by a particular television service provider.

In some embodiments an analyzer interactively uses some of the televised content data to augment convert or populate some of the selection parameters. For example the analyzer can convert the example analysis parameter to instead indicate the date time location and network that selects the content. These indications can assist the operator to provide appropriate analysis parameters .

The demographic selection parameters when present can direct the analyzer to focus its analysis on a particular viewer demographic e.g. a particular age range household income and the like . The other analysis parameters can direct the analyzer to perform the analysis using certain options e.g. which data sources to utilize for the televised content data the television viewing data and the social media data and other details regarding how to perform the analysis such as which criteria to select for filtering the social media messages how to apply those criteria when performing the filtering whether data should be locally cached for efficient repetitive use etc. .

In some aspects the analyzer accesses and combines data from multiple sources. For example the analyzer can access the data over a network such as the internet or on a computer readable medium such as a CD ROM or hard disk etc. In some aspects the analyzer utilizes one or more application programming interfaces APIs to programmatically interface with an external or third party library or service that provides all or portions of the various aforementioned data.

In some embodiments the message keywords filtering component applies semantic processing to filter for particular meanings of a keyword based on other contents of a social media message. The message keywords filtering component can also apply term frequencies when filtering keywords and other methods for effectively filtering keywords such as the proximity of multiple keywords appearing in a message.

In some embodiments and when data allows the analyzer utilizes data about the viewers of the social media messages instead of or in addition to the data about the author of the message. For example the analyzer can count the number of associated content viewings rather than the number of associated content generations.

In some embodiments the social media content associating component utilizes other criteria instead of or in addition to those discussed above for determining associated social media content. For example if a section subdivision forum or the like is established for the purpose of discussing a particular television show then the purpose of the forum can be taken into account. For example if a forum is established for discussing the television series Lost then all user generated content on that forum e.g. new threads responses optionally including those within any subforums can be considered to be associated with that television series. Alternately the keyword Lost may be automatically attributed to each message board post in order to raise the chances that the posts will be matched if the keywords determining component determines that keyword. 

The analyzer can be used to analyze social media interest relating to movie trailer viewings such as to allow studios to gauge interest in an upcoming movie predict demand for the upcoming movie and adjust advertising campaigns.

In some embodiments the social media message aggregating component performs other aggregation operations besides counting the social media messages associated by the component . For example it can apply weights when performing a count on the aggregated group to bias some messages e.g. those that are more reliable or more certain to be associated higher than others. As another example it may determine a cumulative number of viewings of the aggregated content or may perform statistics on the characteristics of the messages such as to determine from which social media service most came or to otherwise further analyze the data.

In some embodiments the analyzer may simply count relevant social media messages. In some embodiments it can also analyze the sentiment of the messages whether they are estimated to be positive or negative comments about the television content.

In some embodiments the analyzer creates reports charts or graphics that include one or more of the measurements . The reports charts or graphics can be delivered on printed media or non transitory computer readable media such as a DVD or CD ROM or they can be accessed remotely using a network such as the Internet.

In various embodiments the analyzer can be used to assess the impact of social media on television audience viewing ratings the impact on advertisement retention e.g. the propensity of an audience to tune away of fast forward through advertisements the effectiveness of advertising including both its impact to sales as well as qualitative metrics such as awareness considerations and purchase intent and the probability of cross media viewings such as seeing something on television and then looking it up online .

In contrast in a dataset where the social media signal remains relatively consistent but upward spikes occur aperiodically in the viewership one may infer that the causal relation for the viewership spike is something other than referrals and commentary by existing viewers e.g. viewers finishing dinner may have begun watching the content or separate content on another channel may have ended such that viewers are now switching channels . Absent correlative metrics between the social media response and viewership an analyst may improperly construe the viewer s behavior and the behavior of the corresponding social community.

The memory and storage devices are computer readable storage media that can store instructions that implement at least portions of the various embodiments. In addition the data structures and message structures can be stored or transmitted via a data transmission medium such as a signal on a communications link. Various communications links can be used such as the Internet a local area network a wide area network or a point to point dial up connection. Thus computer readable media can include computer readable storage media e.g. non transitory media and computer readable transmission media.

The instructions stored in memory can be implemented as software and or firmware to program the processor s to carry out actions described above. In some embodiments such software or firmware can be initially provided to the processing system by downloading it from a remote system through the computing system e.g. via network adapter .

The various embodiments introduced herein can be implemented by for example programmable circuitry e.g. one or more microprocessors programmed with software and or firmware or entirely in special purpose hardwired non programmable circuitry or in a combination of such forms. Special purpose hardwired circuitry can be in the form of for example one or more ASICs PLDs FPGAs etc.

The above description and drawings are illustrative and are not to be construed as limiting. Numerous specific details are described to provide a thorough understanding of the disclosure. However in certain instances well known details are not described in order to avoid obscuring the description. Further various modifications may be made without deviating from the scope of the embodiments. Accordingly the embodiments are not limited except as by the appended claims.

Reference in this specification to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the disclosure. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment nor are separate or alternative embodiments mutually exclusive of other embodiments. Moreover various features are described which may be exhibited by some embodiments and not by others. Similarly various requirements are described which may be requirements for some embodiments but not for other embodiments.

The terms used in this specification generally have their ordinary meanings in the art within the context of the disclosure and in the specific context where each term is used. Certain terms that are used to describe the disclosure are discussed below or elsewhere in the specification to provide additional guidance to the practitioner regarding the description of the disclosure. For convenience certain terms may be highlighted for example using italics and or quotation marks. The use of highlighting has no influence on the scope and meaning of a term the scope and meaning of a term is the same in the same context whether or not it is highlighted. It will be appreciated that the same thing can be said in more than one way. One will recognize that memory is one form of a storage and that the terms may on occasion be used interchangeably.

Consequently alternative language and synonyms may be used for any one or more of the terms discussed herein nor is any special significance to be placed upon whether or not a term is elaborated or discussed herein. Synonyms for certain terms are provided. A recital of one or more synonyms does not exclude the use of other synonyms. The use of examples anywhere in this specification including examples of any term discussed herein is illustrative only and is not intended to further limit the scope and meaning of the disclosure or of any exemplified term. Likewise the disclosure is not limited to various embodiments given in this specification.

Without intent to further limit the scope of the disclosure examples of instruments apparatus methods and their related results according to the embodiments of the present disclosure were given above. Note that titles or subtitles may be used in the examples for convenience of a reader which in no way should limit the scope of the disclosure. Unless otherwise defined all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this disclosure pertains. In the case of conflict the present document including definitions will control.

