---

title: Semiconductor fabrication component retuning
abstract: Among other things, one or more systems and techniques for retuning a semiconductor fabrication component are provided. The semiconductor fabrication component, such as an advanced process control (APC) component, is configured to evaluate or adjust various fabrication parameters associated with semiconductor fabrication processing. Processing data associated with the semiconductor fabrication component is evaluated to formulate performance indices used to evaluate performance of parameters used by the semiconductor fabrication component. One or more fabrication process change simulations are performed to generate a component operating behavior data structure indicating how different values for the parameters result in improved or degraded performance by the semiconductor fabrication component. In this way, the component operating behavior data structure is evaluated to identify tuning values for the parameters that are used to retune the semiconductor fabrication component.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09323244&OS=09323244&RS=09323244
owner: Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company Limited
number: 09323244
owner_city: Hsin-Chu
owner_country: TW
publication_date: 20130918
---
Various techniques components devices etc. are applied to a semiconductor wafer during a semiconductor fabrication process. In an example a lithography technique is used to transfer a pattern from a photomask to a photoresist on the semiconductor wafer. In another example a material deposition component is used to deposit a material onto the semiconductor wafer. In another example a wafer scrubber device is used to mitigate particle contamination on the semiconductor wafer by removing particles from a surface of the semiconductor wafer. A semiconductor fabrication component such as an advanced process control APC component is configured to evaluate the semiconductor fabrication process to determine whether fabrication parameters such as process target parameters are met. If a process target parameter is not met such as a film thickness being outside an acceptable thickness range then the semiconductor fabrication component generates an alert indicating that a fabrication process technician is to manually evaluate and adjust one or more fabrication techniques components devices etc. so that the process target parameter is met. Statistical process control SPC charts are used to gauge whether the semiconductor fabrication component is operating correctly or adequately.

The claimed subject matter is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are generally used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide an understanding of the claimed subject matter. It is evident however that the claimed subject matter can be practiced without these specific details. In other instances structures and devices are illustrated in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the claimed subject matter.

One or more systems and techniques for retuning one or more parameters of a semiconductor fabrication component such as an advanced process control APC component are provided herein. Performance capabilities of the APC component are evaluated by constructing performance indices from processing data associated with the APC component. One or more fabrication process change simulations are performed using the performance indices to generate a component operating behavior data structure such as a curve or surface indicating performance results for the APC component when different values are used for parameters of the APC component. The component operating behavior data structure is evaluated to identify a tuning value for a parameter where the tuning value improves performance of the APC component. In this way the APC component is retuned using the tuning value. In an embodiment the APC component is retuned automatically without necessitating manual evaluation that would otherwise result in a significant investment of time for trial and error retuning of fabrication devices. In an embodiment the APC component is retuned periodically according to a periodic retuning schedule.

A method of retuning a parameter of a semiconductor fabrication component is illustrated in . In an embodiment the semiconductor fabrication component comprises an advanced process control APC component configured to evaluate semiconductor fabrication metrology and provide feedback such as an alert that a fabrication parameter such as a film thickness a width measurements or designs of semiconductor devices or other process target parameters is outside an acceptable target range or value. The APC component comprises a controller that utilizes one or more controller parameters such as etching rates polishing rates or other parameters related to conditions of processing tools to evaluate the semiconductor fabrication metrology. The APC component comprises a filter that utilizes one or more filter parameters such as weights used in accessing incoming metrology measures of processing conditions to evaluate the semiconductor fabrication metrology. As provided herein one or more parameters used by the APC component are automatically retuned such as according to a periodic retuning schedule so that the APC component is effectively evaluating or adjusting the semiconductor fabrication process for improved semiconductor fabrication metrology or results.

At processing data associated with a semiconductor fabrication component is evaluated to formulate performance indices. In an embodiment the processing data comprises upstream tool outputs control inputs process outputs tool settings controller settings process targets such as fabrication parameters parameters employed by the semiconductor fabrication component or other information associated with the semiconductor fabrication process. The performance indices are used to evaluate performance of the semiconductor fabrication component such as how a controller parameter or a filter parameter is performing or behaving during operation of the semiconductor fabrication component. In an embodiment the performance indices correspond to performance characteristics of the semiconductor fabrication component with respect to control of one or more fabrication parameters such as temperature etching rates time constraints trimming rates etc.

At one or more fabrication process change simulations are performed based upon the performance indices to generate a component operating behavior data structure. It is appreciated that any number such as thousands or millions of simulations are performed to generate the component operating behavior data structure. In an embodiment an initial fabrication process simulation is performed using a first current value for a first parameter of the semiconductor fabrication component such as a value of a controller parameter or a filter parameter currently used by the APC component to evaluate or control the semiconductor fabrication process. A result of the initial fabrication process simulation is used as a current performance value for the semiconductor fabrication component and is represented within the component operating behavior data structure e.g. . A first fabrication process change simulation uses a new first current value for the first parameter and a result of the first fabrication process change simulation is represented within the component operating behavior data structure e.g. . In this way different values for the first parameter are simulated during the one or more fabrication process change simulations to generate the component operating behavior data structure. In an embodiment the component operating behavior data structure comprises a characteristic curve for the first parameter where a single parameter is used by the semiconductor fabrication component. In an embodiment the component operating behavior data structure comprises a characteristic surface for the first parameter and one or more additional parameters where multiple parameters are used by the semiconductor fabrication component.

At a first tuning value is identified for the first parameter based upon the component operating behavior data structure indicating that the first tuning value retunes such as improves efficiency or performance of the semiconductor fabrication component the semiconductor fabrication component with respect to a first current value for the first parameter. In an embodiment the first tuning value is identified based upon the first tuning value reducing a performance cost identified within a parameter space represented within the component operating behavior data structure. In an embodiment the first tuning value is identified based upon the first tuning value satisfying an objective performance function for the semiconductor fabrication component such as improving accuracy or efficiency of the semiconductor fabrication component. In an embodiment performance metrology associated with the semiconductor fabrication process is efficiently improved based upon retuning the first parameter from the first current value to the first tuning value. At the first parameter is retuned from the first current value to the first tuning value. The first parameter is retuned to improve efficiency of the semiconductor fabrication component for evaluating or controlling the semiconductor fabrication process. In an embodiment multiple parameters are retuned such as a second parameter retuned with a second tuning value. In an embodiment multiple parameters are retuned in parallel. In an embodiment parameters are sequentially retuned.

The tuning component is configured to perform one or more fabrication process change simulations based upon the performance indices to generate the component operating behavior data structure . In an embodiment a plurality of fabrication process change simulations are performed where different values are used for one or more parameters during respective fabrication process change simulations such as a current value A for the first parameter during an initial fabrication probes simulation as a baseline indicator of how the semiconductor fabrication component is currently operating a first new value for the first parameter during a first fabrication process change simulation a second new value for the first parameter during a second fabrication process change simulation etc. In this way the component operating behavior data structure indicates how effective different values are for parameters used by the semiconductor fabrication component .

In an embodiment where the fabrication process change simulations are computationally intensive the tuning component is implemented across a plurality of computing devices. The tuning component is configured to facilitate data exchanges between various computing platforms of the computing devices. In an embodiment the tuning component retunes parameters such as individual controller parameters or filter parameters sequentially. In an embodiment the tuning component retunes parameters such as multiple controller parameters or filter parameters in parallel.

Still another embodiment involves a computer readable medium comprising processor executable instructions configured to implement one or more of the techniques presented herein. An exemplary computer readable medium is illustrated in wherein the implementation comprises a computer readable medium e.g. a CD R DVD R flash drive a platter of a hard disk drive etc. on which is encoded computer readable data . This computer readable data in turn comprises a set of computer instructions configured to operate according to one or more of the principles set forth herein. In one such embodiment the processor executable computer instructions may be configured to perform a method such as at least some of the exemplary method of for example. In another such embodiment the processor executable instructions may be configured to implement a system such as at least some of the exemplary system of and or at least some of the exemplary system of for example. Many such computer readable media may be devised by those of ordinary skill in the art that are configured to operate in accordance with the techniques presented herein.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing at least some the claims.

As used in this application the terms component module system interface and the like are generally intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a controller and the controller can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

Furthermore the claimed subject matter may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. Of course many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the claimed subject matter.

Although not required embodiments are described in the general context of computer readable instructions being executed by one or more computing devices. Computer readable instructions may be distributed via computer readable media discussed below . Computer readable instructions may be implemented as program modules such as functions objects Application Programming Interfaces APIs data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the computer readable instructions may be combined or distributed as desired in various environments.

In other embodiments device may include additional features and or functionality. For example device may also include additional storage e.g. removable and or non removable including but not limited to magnetic storage optical storage and the like. Such additional storage is illustrated in by storage . In some embodiments computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein may be in storage . Storage may also store other computer readable instructions to implement an operating system an application program and the like. Computer readable instructions may be loaded in memory for execution by processing unit for example.

The term computer readable media as used herein includes computer storage media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions or other data. Memory and storage are examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM Digital Versatile Disks DVDs or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by device . Any such computer storage media may be part of device .

Device may also include communication connection s that allows device to communicate with other devices. Communication connection s may include but is not limited to a modem a Network Interface Card NIC an integrated network interface a radio frequency transmitter receiver an infrared port a USB connection or other interfaces for connecting computing device to other computing devices. Communication connection s may include a wired connection or a wireless connection. Communication connection s may transmit and or receive communication media.

The term computer readable media may include communication media. Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal may include a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal.

Device may include input device s such as keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device infrared cameras video input devices and or any other input device. Output device s such as one or more displays speakers printers and or any other output device may also be included in device . Input device s and output device s may be connected to device via a wired connection wireless connection or any combination thereof. In some embodiments an input device or an output device from another computing device may be used as input device s or output device s for computing device .

Components of computing device may be connected by various interconnects such as a bus. Such interconnects may include a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI such as PCI Express a Universal Serial Bus USB firewire IEEE 1394 an optical bus structure and the like. In another embodiment components of computing device may be interconnected by a network. For example memory may be comprised of multiple physical memory units located in different physical locations interconnected by a network.

Those skilled in the art will realize that storage devices utilized to store computer readable instructions may be distributed across a network. For example a computing device accessible via a network may store computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein. Computing device may access computing device and download a part or all of the computer readable instructions for execution. Alternatively computing device may download pieces of the computer readable instructions as needed or some instructions may be executed at computing device and some at computing device .

According to an aspect of the instant disclosure a method for retuning a parameter of a semiconductor fabrication component is provided. The method comprises evaluating processing data associated with a semiconductor fabrication component to formulate performance indices. One or more fabrication process change simulations are performed based upon the performance indices to generate a component operating behavior data structure. A first tuning value is identified for a first parameter used by the semiconductor fabrication component based upon the component operating behavior data structure indicating that the first tuning value retunes the semiconductor fabrication component with respect to a current value for the first parameter specified within the processing data. The first parameter is retuned from the first current value to the first tuning value.

According to an aspect of the instant disclosure a system for retuning a parameter of a semiconductor fabrication component is provided. The system comprises a tuning component. The tuning component is configured to evaluate processing data associated with a semiconductor fabrication component to formulate performance indices. The tuning component is configured to perform one or more fabrication process change simulations based upon the performance indices to generate a component operating behavior data structure. The tuning component is configured to identify a first tuning value for a first parameter used by the semiconductor fabrication component based upon the component operating behavior data structure indicating that the first tuning value satisfies an objective performance function of the semiconductor fabrication component. The retuning component retunes the first parameter from a first current value for the first parameter to the first tuning value.

According to an aspect of the instant disclosure a computer readable medium comprising instructions which when executed at least in part via a processing unit perform a method for retuning a semiconductor fabrication component is provided. The method comprises evaluating processing data associated with a semiconductor fabrication component to formulate performance indices. One or more fabrication process change simulations are performed based upon the performance indices to generate a component operating behavior data structure. A tuning parameter pairing used by the semiconductor fabrication component is identified. The tuning parameter pairing comprises a first parameter and a second parameter. A tuning parameter pairing value is identified for the tuning parameter paring based upon the component operating behavior data structure indicating that the tuning parameter pairing value satisfies an object performance function for the semiconductor fabrication component. The semiconductor fabrication component is retuned based upon the tuning parameter pairing value.

Various operations of embodiments are provided herein. In one embodiment one or more of the operations described may constitute computer readable instructions stored on one or more computer readable media which if executed by a computing device will cause the computing device to perform the operations described. The order in which some or all of the operations are described should not be construed as to imply that these operations are necessarily order dependent. Alternative ordering will be appreciated by one skilled in the art having the benefit of this description. Further it will be understood that not all operations are necessarily present in each embodiment provided herein. Also it will be understood that not all operations are necessary in some embodiments.

Further unless specified otherwise first second and or the like are not intended to imply a temporal aspect a spatial aspect an ordering etc. Rather such terms are merely used as identifiers names etc. for features elements items etc. For example a first object and a second object generally correspond to object A and object B or two different or two identical objects or the same object.

Moreover exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance illustration etc. and not necessarily as advantageous. As used herein or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . In addition a and an as used in this application are generally to be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form. Also at least one of A and B or the like generally means A or B or both A and B. Furthermore to the extent that includes having has with or variants thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to comprising .

Also although the disclosure has been shown and described with respect to one or more implementations equivalent alterations and modifications will occur to others skilled in the art based upon a reading and understanding of this specification and the annexed drawings. The disclosure includes all such modifications and alterations and is limited only by the scope of the following claims. In particular regard to the various functions performed by the above described components e.g. elements resources etc. the terms used to describe such components are intended to correspond unless otherwise indicated to any component which performs the specified function of the described component e.g. that is functionally equivalent even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure. In addition while a particular feature of the disclosure may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several implementations such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the other implementations as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application.

