---

title: Load stabilizing insert for vehicle springs
abstract: Load stabilizing inserts for a motor vehicle. The inserts include a base plate, a top plate spaced apart from and angularly pivotable with respect to the base plate, and one or more contact plates. The insert is sized and shaped for insertion between an overload spring and a spring pack in a motor vehicle such as a pickup truck. Four load stabilizing inserts may be installed to provide stable operation of the pickup truck when loaded at or near the maximum design gross operating weight of the vehicle. During those periods when the truck is not loaded, such as when a truck camper is not installed, the load stabilizing inserts may be angularly adjusted and secured in an open, non-working position, to provide a relatively soft ride during such position.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08870169&OS=08870169&RS=08870169
owner: 
number: 08870169
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20130308
---
This application claims priority from prior U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 643 216 filed May 4 2012 entitled LOAD STABILIZING INSERT FOR VEHICLE SPRINGS the disclosure of which is incorporated herein in its entirety including the specification drawing and claims by this reference.

A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material that is subject to copyright protection. The patent owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent file or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever.

This application relates to apparatus and methods for stabilizing motor vehicles when handling heavy loads.

Pickup trucks are frequently used as platforms on which truck campers are mounted for over the road use. Not infrequently a load imposed on the suspension system of the pickup truck subsequently nears or occasionally exceeds the design load limits of the suspension system of the pickup truck especially when used for carriage of a truck camper. Often the total weight on the vehicle suspension system considering empty weight of the vehicle the empty weight of the truck camper and the added weight of a truck camper especially when outfitted with gear and supplies for camping fishing or hunting results in relatively poor handling of a fully loaded pickup truck.

As a consequence of difficulties in handling experienced by drivers of pickup trucks carrying loaded truck campers interest has grown in the potential for resolving such vehicle handling problems in an economical way. Similar problems exist when other motor vehicles tow trailers particularly when heavy tongue weight is encountered. And various motor vehicles including pickups trucks may experience similar problems when hauling loads other than campers. Thus at this time there remains a need for a load stabilizing apparatus and a method for use of such apparatus which could easily be affixed in an aftermarket setting to a variety of existing motor vehicles including pickup trucks vans sports utility vehicles recreational vehicles motor homes and even to certain commercial vehicles. Further straightforward methods for installing and for using such load stabilizing devices on motor vehicles would be desirable. Moreover it would be advantageous to provide such an apparatus using low cost commonly available and easily manufactured and assembled materials suitable for automotive suspension applications.

The foregoing figures being merely exemplary contain various elements that may be present or omitted from actual apparatus that may be constructed to provide various embodiments for a load stabilizing insert or to various configurations for installation thereof or to methods for use thereof. An attempt has been made to draw the figures in a way that illustrates at least those elements that are significant for an understanding of the components of an embodiment for a useful load stabilizing device for motor vehicles. However various other elements for such apparatus or for installation and use of the same may be utilized in order to provide a useful load stabilizing device according to the concepts disclosed herein.

As seen in a load stabilizing insert is provided which when installed in sets in a selected motor vehicle portions of which are depicted in dramatically improve the handling characteristics of a motor vehicle not shown when loaded. The load stabilizing inserts are especially adapted for use in pickup trucks but the use of load stabilizing inserts is not limited thereto. For example sport utility vehicles carrying loads or coupe utility vehicles of a design such as or somewhat similar to that of a Chevrolet El Camino may also benefit given their load carrying capabilities. A variety of motor vehicles encounter similar problems when they tow trailers particularly when heavy tongue weight is encountered. And various motor vehicles including pickups trucks may experience similar problems when hauling near or at capacity loads other than truck campers. Load stabilizing inserts may easily be affixed in an aftermarket setting to a variety of existing motor vehicles including pickup trucks vans sports utility vehicles recreational vehicles motor homes and even to certain commercial vehicles. Generally motor vehicles which may utilize load stabilizing inserts as described herein may include a rear axle and have a left side leaf spring set LS SS and a right side leaf spring set RS SS as noted in . In an embodiment a left side leaf spring set LS SS and a right side leaf spring set RS SS may each include an overload spring of thickness T and a spring pack as seen in . The thickness of an overload spring may vary in different motor vehicles but by way of example and not of limitation often a thickness T is found to be in the 0.25 inch to 0.5 inch range. In any event motor vehicle handling characteristics are changed by using the load stabilizing inserts to reset the engagement point of each overload spring with the accompanying spring pack . In use as seen in four load stabilizing inserts may be provided in a set for installation in a motor vehicle not shown having a rear axle and left side spring packs and right side spring packs . In an embodiment the four load stabilizing inserts in a set of inserts may be provided two per driver left in the US side and two per passenger right in the US side as a left side front insert a left side rear insert a right side front insert and a right side rear insert . In an embodiment as illustrated in the left side front insert a left side rear insert a right side front insert and a right side rear insert may be mounted to the outside of the left side spring packs and right side spring packs . In an embodiment as illustrated in the left side front insert a left side rear insert a right side front insert and a right side rear insert may be mounted to the outside of the left side spring packs and right side spring packs .

As further seen in a load stabilizing insert may be provided using one or more contact plates e.g. contact plate and etc. which may be pivoted about a pivot pin or bolt from an open non working position as shown in to a closed working position as shown in . Pivot pin or bolt may be secured via nut or functionally equivalent fastener system. In an embodiment contact plates e.g. contact plate and etc. may be provided in a tapered or generally triangular configuration as seen in .

Installation is depicted in . Starting on a passenger side of a motor vehicle the factory overload contact pad may preferably be removed from the overload spring . In some motor vehicles a flat head screwdriver as shown in may be used to push an overload contact pad upward to disengage it from the overload spring . Such factory overload contact pads may be saved for re installation if the load stabilizing inserts are removed. However it should also be noted that not all spring packs are shipped by the manufacturer whether original equipment or aftermarket products with pre drilled overload springs in such cases a kit including a plurality of load stabilizing inserts may be additionally provided for such drilling required applications on various vehicles. Then the overload spring may be drilled to provide a mounting device for a load stabilizing insert as described herein and otherwise installation proceeds as described herein. In an embodiment a kit for installation of load stabilizing inserts may include two load stabilizing inserts .

In an embodiment a kit may be provided for stabilizing a motor vehicle having a rear axle with a left side leaf spring pack and a right side leaf spring pack. As described above the left side leaf spring pack and right side leaf spring pack each have a lower side. Since in some cases a motor vehicle may not be provided with overload springs from the factory in some embodiments a kit may include a right overload spring having a lower side and a selected thickness T which may be designated for such right overload spring as thickness T. Such a right overload spring may be sized and shaped for installation the right side leaf spring pack. Also in some embodiments a kit may include a left overload spring having a lower side and a selected thickness T which may be designated for such left overload spring as T. In various applications right overload spring and left overload springs may have a selected thickness T Tfor left overload spring and Tfor the right overload spring of about one half inch 0.5 or thereabouts. In many cases the left overload spring may be sized and shaped for installation with the right side leaf spring pack. In an embodiment such a kit may include four load stabilizing inserts .

On some motor vehicles there may not be sufficient clearance to mount load stabilizing inserts with the pivot point in various embodiments the pivot is provided by bolt on the inside of spring pack due to obstructions such as exhaust pipe hangers. In some motor vehicles such obstructions may be relocated. Alternately during installation a pivot point such as bolt may be placed on the outside of spring pack i.e. toward tire as noted in as illustrated in .

Returning to in an embodiment a bottom plate may be placed under the overload spring and affixed thereto such as via mounting bolt and accompanying nut or functionally equivalent fastener system. Then the installer may determine how many of the contact plates etc may be utilized in a particular installation to bridge the gap in the unloaded installing condition between the top of the overload spring and the bottom of the spring pack see or . In an embodiment a suitable number of contact plates through where N is a positive integer etc. may be mounted above the top plate . A plate mounting bolt and accompanying nut or functionally equivalent fastener system may be used to securely join the top plate with the contact plates through which are supported above the top plate . A spacer or spacers such as a plurality of washers may be utilized to space the top plate above bottom plate . In an embodiment spacers such as washers may be placed around bolt to enable bolt and nut or equivalent fastening system to secure the load stabilizing device at an appropriate location. For example see showing washers spacing apart the bottom plate and the top plate . Once the load stabilizing insert has been placed in an open non working non loadable standby position or alternately in a closed working loadable position a locking pin and cotter pin or functionally equivalent locking system may be utilized to securely locate the top plate and accompanying contact plates i.e. through at a selected angle alpha with respect to bottom plate see .

The cotter pin prevents axial movement i.e. in the direction of reference arrow in of locking pin . In an embodiment the various components may be configured to provide an angle alpha of ninety 90 degrees. In an embodiment a locking pin may be located at a first aperture defined by first sidewalls is provided in the bottom plate and a second aperture defined by second sidewalls in the top plate . The locking pin is configured for insertion through the first aperture and also through the second aperture to prevent the bottom plate from pivoting with respect to the top plate .

In an embodiment as may be seen in contact plates e.g. first contact plate second contact plate etc. through the Nth contact plate may include apertures through respectively for accommodating a locking pin therethrough to thereby secure a first contact plate a second contact plate etc. through to Nth contact plate not shown to the top plate and to the bottom plate . In each of the one or more contact plates i.e. first contact plate second contact plate etc. through the Nth contact plate an interior sidewall noted in by reference numerals and through not shown defines the respective contact plate locking aperture interior sidewall. The top plate has a top plate locking aperture therein defined by interior sidewalls . In an embodiment the top plate locking aperture and each of the contact plate locking apertures through may be configured for alignment when the load stabilizing insert is in a working position as shown in .

In an embodiment load stabilizing inserts may include one or more contact plates which have a beveled edge. For example as seen in first contact plate has a first beveled edge . Likewise second contact plate has a second beveled edge . The first contact plate may include a first leading edge . Likewise the second contact plate may include a second leading edge . Further the first contact plate may include a first trailing edge . Likewise the second contact plate may include a second trailing edge . In an embodiment the second trailing edge and the first leading edge may be adjacent. In an embodiment the first beveled edge and a second beveled edge may oriented along a common plane for example extending in planar fashion from reference line P shown in .

A method of engaging or disengaging the load stabilizing inserts may be practiced when the motor vehicle is without payload i.e. in a substantially empty weight condition. A change from an open non working position is best accomplished by setting up the motor vehicle on a level surface with the front wheels chocked and placing a floor jack under a receiver hitch until the spring packs are unloaded that is spring packs on the right and left side of motor vehicle . Jack stands not shown may be placed under a frame of motor vehicle for safety purposes. If additional clearance is needed a pry bar may be used between the overload spring and the spring pack to provide further separation therebetween.

Generally it may not be advisable to use load stabilizing inserts in conjunction with the use of snow chains or cable chains not shown on tires especially if the load stabilizing inserts are mounted with the bolt which acts as a pivot pin on the outside of the spring pack for example as is illustrated in .

In the foregoing description numerous details have been set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the disclosed exemplary embodiments for providing load stabilizing inserts for motor vehicles and in particular for pickup trucks carrying campers. However certain of the described details may not be required in order to provide useful embodiments or to practice selected or other disclosed embodiments. Further the description may include for descriptive purposes various relative terms such as surface adjacent proximity near on onto and the like. Such usage should not be construed as limiting. Terms that are relative only to a point of reference are not meant to be interpreted as absolute limitations but are instead included in the foregoing description to facilitate understanding of the various aspects of the disclosed embodiments. Various items in the apparatus and in the method s described herein may have been described as multiple discrete items in turn in a manner that is most helpful in understanding such aspects and details. However the order of description should not be construed as to imply that such items or sequence of operations are necessarily order dependent or that it is imperative to fully complete one step before starting another. For example the choice of where to mount a load stabilizing insert on a particular spring pack for a given vehicle make and model may be different as regards installation particulars amongst various installers. Further certain details of installation may not need to be performed in the precise or exact order of presentation herein. And in different embodiments one or more items may be performed simultaneously or eliminated in part or in whole while other items may be added. Also the reader will note that the phrase an embodiment has been used repeatedly. This phrase generally does not refer to the same embodiment however it may. Finally the terms comprising having and including should be considered synonymous unless the context dictates otherwise.

Various aspects and embodiments described and claimed herein may be modified from those shown without materially departing from the novel teachings and advantages provided by this invention and may be embodied in other specific forms without departing from the spirit or essential characteristics thereof. Embodiments presented herein are to be considered in all respects as illustrative and not restrictive or limiting. This disclosure is intended to cover methods and apparatus described herein and not only structural equivalents thereof but also equivalent structures. Modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teachings. Therefore the protection afforded to this invention should be limited only by the claims set forth herein and the legal equivalents thereof.

