---

title: Automatic and semi-automatic tagging features of work items in a shared workspace for metadata tracking in a cloud-based content management system with selective or optional user contribution
abstract: Systems and methods for supporting metadata for work items stored in a web-based content management system with collaboration environment are disclosed. Users uploading work items to a folder are not required to provide metadata for the work items. Collaborators of the folder can provide metadata to work items within the folder.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08990151&OS=08990151&RS=08990151
owner: Box, Inc.
number: 08990151
owner_city: Los Altos
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130815
---
This application is a divisional application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 274 268 entitled Automatic and Semi Automatic Tagging Features of Work Items in a Shared Workspace for Metadata Tracking in a Cloud Based Content Management System with Selective or Optional User Contribution which was filed on Oct. 14 2011 and is related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 165 725 entitled Batch Uploading of Content to a Web Based Collaboration Environment each of which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

Accurate descriptive metadata about the contents and context of data files stored in a data repository is needed to ensure that a search for information in the repository is quick and effective.

A system is described for supporting metadata for work items stored in a workspace in a web based content management system with a collaboration environment. The creator of the workspace specifies metadata attributes for all work items stored in the workspace. However a user uploading a work item to the workspace is not required to provide metadata for the specified attributes before being permitted to upload the work item to the workspace. Collaborators of the workspace can provide metadata for any work item stored within the folder.

Various aspects and examples of the invention will now be described. The following description provides specific details for a thorough understanding and enabling description of these examples. One skilled in the art will understand however that the invention may be practiced without many of these details. Additionally some well known structures or functions may not be shown or described in detail so as to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the relevant description.

The terminology used in the description presented below is intended to be interpreted in its broadest reasonable manner even though it is being used in conjunction with a detailed description of certain specific examples of the technology. Certain terms may even be emphasized below however any terminology intended to be interpreted in any restricted manner will be overtly and specifically defined as such in this Detailed Description section.

The client devices can be any system and or device and or any combination of devices systems that is able to establish a connection including wired wireless cellular connections with another device a server and or other systems such as host server . Client devices will typically include a display and or other output functionalities to present information and data exchanged between or among the devices and or the host server .

For example the client devices can include mobile hand held or portable devices or non portable devices and can be any of but not limited to a server desktop a desktop computer a computer cluster or portable devices including a notebook a laptop computer a handheld computer a palmtop computer a mobile phone a cell phone a smart phone a PDA a Blackberry device a Treo a handheld tablet e.g. an iPad a Galaxy Xoom Tablet etc. a tablet PC a thin client a hand held console a hand held gaming device or console an iPhone and or any other portable mobile hand held devices etc. In one embodiment the client devices and host server are coupled via a network . In some embodiments the devices and host server may be directly connected to one another.

The input mechanism on client devices can include touch screen keypad including single touch multi touch gesture sensing in 2D or 3D etc. a physical keypad a mouse a pointer a track pad motion detector e.g. including 1 axis 2 axis 3 axis accelerometer etc. a light sensor capacitance sensor resistance sensor temperature sensor proximity sensor a piezoelectric device device orientation detector e.g. electronic compass tilt sensor rotation sensor gyroscope accelerometer or a combination of the above.

Signals received or detected indicating user activity at client devices through one or more of the above input mechanism or others can be used in the disclosed technology by various users or collaborators e.g. collaborators for accessing through network a web based content management system with a collaboration environment or online collaboration platform e.g. hosted by the host server .

The collaboration platform or environment hosts workspaces with work items stored in the data repository that one or more users can access e.g. view edit update revise comment add to discussions download preview tag or otherwise manipulate etc. . A work item can generally include any type of digital or electronic content that can be viewed or accessed via an electronic device e.g. device . The digital content can include .pdf files .doc slides e.g. Powerpoint slides images audio files multimedia content web pages blogs etc.

The data repository is a database that can be managed by a database management system DBMS for example but not limited to Oracle DB2 Microsoft Access Microsoft SQL Server PostgreSQL MySQL FileMaker etc. The data repository can be implemented via object oriented technology and or via text files and can be managed by a distributed database management system an object oriented database management system OODBMS e.g. ConceptBase FastDB Main Memory Database Management System JDOInstruments ObjectDB etc. an object relational database management system ORDBMS e.g. Informix OpenLink Virtuoso VMDS etc. a file system and or any other convenient or known database management package.

A workspace can generally refer to any grouping of a set of digital content in the collaboration platform. In general the content management system permits a user to group stored files in a hierarchical manner such that a workspace made up of a group of files can be contained within another workspace such as a folder. The grouping can be created identified or specified by a user or through other means. This user may be a creator user or administrative user for example. The workspace can also include an online discussion area for collaborators to engage in an online discussion.

In general a workspace can be associated with a set of users or collaborators e.g. collaborators who have access to the content included therein. The levels of access e.g. based on permissions or rules of each user or collaborator to access the content in a given workspace may be the same or may vary among the users. Each user may have their own set of access rights to every piece of content in the workspace or each user may have different access rights to different pieces of content. Access rights may be specified by a user associated with a work space and or a user who created uploaded a particular piece of content to the workspace or any other designated user or collaborator. In one embodiment access rights can include permission to view and or edit metadata or attributes associated with a work item.

In general the collaboration platform allows multiple users or collaborators to access or collaborate efforts on work items such that each user can see remotely edits revisions comments or annotations being made to specific work items through their own user devices. For example a user can upload a document to a work space for other users to access e.g. for viewing editing commenting discussing signing off or otherwise manipulating . The user can log in to the online platform and upload the document or any other type of work item to an existing work space or to a new work space. The document can be shared with existing users or collaborators in a work space.

A diagrammatic illustration of the online collaboration environment and the relationships between workspaces and users collaborators are illustrated with further reference to the example of .

In one embodiment discussions among collaborators of a workspace or folder can be linked to the particular workspace or folder and collaborators can create topics for discussion and comment on those topics.

Functions and techniques disclosed for implementing collaborative metadata in the web based content management system can be performed by the host server . Functions and techniques performed by the host server and the related components therein are described below respectively in detail with further reference to the example of .

In one embodiment client devices communicate with the host server over network . In general network over which the client devices and the host server communicate may be a cellular network a telephonic network an open network such as the Internet or a private network such as an intranet and or the extranet or any combination thereof. For example the Internet can provide file transfer remote log in email news RSS cloud based services instant messaging visual voicemail push mail VoIP and other services through any known or convenient protocol such as but is not limited to the TCP IP protocol Open System Interconnections OSI FTP UPnP iSCSI NSF ISDN PDH RS 232 SDH SONET etc.

The network can be any collection of distinct networks operating wholly or partially in conjunction to provide connectivity to the client devices and the host server and may appear as one or more networks to the serviced systems and devices. In one embodiment communications to and from the client devices can be achieved by an open network such as the Internet or a private network such as an intranet and or the extranet. In one embodiment communications can be achieved by a secure communications protocol such as secure sockets layer SSL or transport layer security TLS .

In addition communications can be achieved via one or more networks such as but are not limited to one or more of WiMax a Local Area Network LAN Wireless Local Area Network WLAN a Personal area network PAN a Campus area network CAN a Metropolitan area network MAN a Wide area network WAN a Wireless wide area network WWAN enabled with technologies such as by way of example Global System for Mobile Communications GSM Personal Communications Service PCS Digital Advanced Mobile Phone Service D Amps Bluetooth Wi Fi Fixed Wireless Data 2G 2.5G 3G 4G IMT Advanced pre 4G 3G LTE 3GPP LTE LTE Advanced mobile WiMax WiMax 2 WirelessMAN Advanced networks enhanced data rates for GSM evolution EDGE General packet radio service GPRS enhanced GPRS iBurst UMTS HSPDA HSUPA HSPA UMTS TDD 1xRTT EV DO messaging protocols such as TCP IP SMS MMS extensible messaging and presence protocol XMPP real time messaging protocol RTMP instant messaging and presence protocol IMPP instant messaging USSD IRC or any other wireless data networks or messaging protocols.

The web based platform for collaborating on projects or jointly working on documents can be used by individual users and shared among collaborators. In addition the collaboration platform can be deployed in an organized setting including but not limited to a company e.g. an enterprise setting a department in a company an academic institution a department in an academic institution a class or course setting or any other types of organizations or organized setting.

When deployed in an organizational setting multiple workspaces e.g. workspace A B C can be created to support different projects or a variety of work flows. Each workspace can have its own associated work items. For example work space A and discussion workspace can be associated with work items work space B and discussion workspace can be associated with work items and work space N and discussion workspace can be associated with work items . The work items and may be unique to each work space but need not be. For example a particular document can be associated with only one work space e.g. work space A or it may be associated with multiple work spaces e.g. work space A and work space B etc. .

In general each work space has a set of users or collaborators associated with it. For example work space A is associated with multiple users or collaborators . In some instances work spaces deployed in an enterprise may be department specific. For example work space B may be associated with department and some users shown as example user A and workspace N can be associated with departments and and users shown as example user B .

Each user associated with a work space can generally access the work items associated with the work space. The level of access will depend on permissions associated with the specific work space and or with a specific work item. Permissions can be set for the work space or set individually on a per work item basis. For example the creator of a work space e.g. one of user A who creates work space B can set one permission setting applicable to all work items for other associated users and or users associated with the affiliate department for example. Creator user A may also set different permission settings for each work item which may be the same for different users or varying for different users.

In one embodiment a first type of permission level e.g. an editor can allow a user to have full read and write access to a workspace such that the user can view and download contents of the workspace as well as upload new content to the workspace. A second type of permission level e.g. a viewer can allow a user to have full read access to a workspace such that the user can view and download contents of the workspace but not upload or edit contents of the workspace. A third type of permission level e.g. an uploader can allow a user to have limited write access to contents of a workspace such that the user can see items in the workspace but not download or view the items while being permitted to upload new content to the workspace.

In one embodiment the ability of a user associated with a workspace to contribute to a discussion workspace linked to that workspace or to invite others to join the workspace can be tied to the permission level of the user. For instance an editor may be permitted to participate in the discussion workspace and invite other collaborators while a viewer may only be allowed to participate in the discussion workspace and an uploader may not be permitted to perform either action. Alternatively separate discussion permission and or invitation permission can be assigned by a creator or administrator of a workspace to individuals associated with the workspace. In some instances discussion permission and or invitation permission can be associated with the workspace or the items in the workspace or can be based upon any other criteria.

The host server of the web based or online content management system with a collaboration environment can include for example a network interface an attribute creation engine an attribute database a metadata request module a metadata tracker module a search engine a metadata recommendation engine and a metadata mapping engine . The attribute creation engine can include an account tracking module .

The network interface can be a networking module that enables the host server to mediate data in a network with an entity that is external to the host server through any known and or convenient communications protocol supported by the host and the external entity. The network interface can include one or more of a network adaptor card a wireless network interface card e.g. SMS interface WiFi interface interfaces for various generations of mobile communication standards including but not limited to 1G 2G 3G 3.5G 4G LTE etc. Bluetooth a router an access point a wireless router a switch a multilayer switch a protocol converter a gateway a bridge bridge router a hub a digital media receiver and or a repeater.

As used herein a module a manager a handler a detector an interface or an engine includes a general purpose dedicated or shared processor and typically firmware or software modules that are executed by the processor. Depending upon implementation specific or other considerations the module manager handler or engine can be centralized or its functionality distributed. The module manager handler or engine can include general or special purpose hardware firmware or software embodied in a computer readable storage medium for execution by the processor. As used herein a computer readable medium or computer readable storage medium is intended to include all media that are statutory e.g. in the United States under 35 U.S.C. 101 and to specifically exclude all media that are non statutory in nature to the extent that the exclusion is necessary for a claim that includes the computer readable storage medium to be valid. Known statutory computer readable media include hardware e.g. registers random access memory RAM non volatile NV storage to name a few but may or may not be limited to hardware.

One embodiment of the host server includes an attribute creation engine that allows an administrator of a workspace or a user authorized by the administrator to create and manage a list of metadata attributes that is accessible enterprise wide to the administrator s managed user accounts. By restricting the creation and maintenance of enterprise wide metadata to the administrator metadata terms can be made consistent across the account. In one embodiment during the process of creating an attribute the attribute creation engine prompts the administrator to provide an attribute name and to select a type for the attribute. The attribute type gives a user an indication of the format to include when providing metadata information for a particular work item or file. A type can include for example a free form text field a pick list date or time. Additional information such as the settings for an attribute can also be requested. For example if the type were a date field the settings can include a minimum and a maximum date range. The additional information can also include a description for the attribute to help the end user understand what is being requested. An example user interface for creating an attribute is shown in .

In one embodiment attributes can be arranged into sets by the administrator through the attribute creation engine . An attribute set is a grouping of attributes that can be easily applied to a work item to ensure that the attributes requested for work items or files across an account is consistent. For example an attribute set for legal contracts can be created with the name legal contract attribute set . In one instance the legal contract set can include attributes such as drafting attorney name contract start date and parties to the contract. Then the legal contract attribute set can be applied to a workspace or folder intended to organize legal contracts so that any work items placed in the folder will automatically request metadata for the attributes in the legal contract attribute set from the person who uploads the file to the folder or from a collaborator of the folder who accesses the folder after the work item has been uploaded.

Once the attributes and or attribute sets have been created they are stored in the database . Only the administrator or a user authorized by the administrator is permitted to create modify or delete enterprise wide attributes. The database also stores the metadata for each work item stored in the web based content management system that corresponds to the attributes and or attribute sets corresponding to the work item. In one embodiment the database can be made up of several separate databases. In one embodiment the database can be external to the host server .

The attribute creation engine can include an account tracking module that applies certain attributes and or attribute sets created by an administrator only to the administrator s accounts. Each administrator can set up his own list of attributes and attribute sets to be used within the administrator s own account s that are separate from one or more accounts that the administrator manages for a group of users. In one embodiment the account tracking module can also maintain a list of the users authorized by the administrator of an account to create and manage the attribute and attribute sets for the managed account s .

Because the creator of a folder knows the kind of information that will likely be in the work items stored in the folder in one embodiment the metadata request module prompts the creator of each folder for attributes and or attribute sets to be requested for all work items that are stored in that folder. The metadata request module also requests default values for the attributes and or attribute sets that the creator selects. shows an example user interface used by the metadata request module to request attributes for a new folder. Child folders that are created in a parent folder that has already been assigned attributes and or attribute sets inherit the same attributes and or attribute sets upon creation. Similarly the default values for the attributes are also inherited from the parent folder. However the owner or creator of the child folder can modify the attributes and or attributes sets associated with the child folder.

In one embodiment the metadata request module prompts a user who uploads a file to a particular folder to provide corresponding metadata for the attributes and or attribute sets that have been assigned to that folder by the creator of the folder. The user can provide all some or none of the requested metadata information. Additionally or alternatively the user can provide metadata for any attribute even if it hasn t been designated by the folder creator as long as that attribute has been created by the administrator so that it exists in the attribute database . In one embodiment the user can provide incomplete metadata information or no metadata information at all for a file. If incomplete or no metadata information is provided by the user uploading the file the user is still permitted to upload the file. Then the metadata tracker module will prompt any collaborator of the folder who subsequently accesses the folder to provide the missing metadata information for that file and any other files in the folder that have missing metadata information. In one embodiment only authorized collaborators are requested to provide missing metadata. shows an example user interface used by the metadata tracker module to request metadata.

The search engine can be used by a user of the online collaboration environment to search for and sort work items that have been tagged with a particular attribute term. Additionally or alternatively work items can be searched for and sorted by two or more terms that are related for example all work items that are tagged with customer code 0010 AND sales rep Jim. An example user interface for searching using metadata is shown in . A user can enter edit and or add metadata search terms and the search engine can search for work items within the account that have been appropriately tagged.

One embodiment of the host server includes a metadata recommendation engine that can recommend metadata to a user uploading a file to the online content management system. In one embodiment the metadata recommendation engine can base the recommendations on other metadata terms in the folder to which the document is uploaded. Alternatively or additionally the metadata recommendation engine can base the recommendations on previous metadata terms that have been entered by the uploading user. In one embodiment the metadata recommendation engine can analyze the document for the use of substantive words or phrases having a minimum density index and rank the content of the document based upon semantic analysis or use any other metadata determination algorithm to determine the metadata terms to recommend to the user.

The host server performs cloud based enterprise content management services ECM . In one embodiment the host server can connect with other client on premise ECMs with traditional content platforms for example SharePoint or Documentum to synchronize or transfer data to and from the host server or when migrating content between the on premise ECM and the host server . One embodiment of the host server includes a metadata mapping engine that maps metadata fields between files stored on the host server and the on premise ECM. Thus data synchronized between the host server and a client s other ECM for example SharePoint can contain the same or similar metadata.

At block the system requests and receives a name for the metadata attribute from the administrator of one or more accounts on the web based content management system. Then at block the system requests and receives a type for the attribute. Examples of metadata attribute types include but are not limited to free form text field time date and list with a box that allows for multiple selections.

At block the system requests and receives additional settings for the metadata attribute. For example if the type of attribute were a date field the settings could indicate a minimum and a maximum data range. The settings can also include a description to explain to the end user the type of metadata information that is being requested by the system.

At decision block the system determines if there are more metadata attributes to be included in the set. If the administrator indicates that there are more attributes block Yes the process returns to block . If the administrator indicates that there are no more attributes to be included block No the process ends at block .

At decision block the system determines if there is a request to create a new folder. If there is no request block No the process remains at decision block until there is a request. If there is a request block Yes at block the system requests and receives from the creator of the folder metadata attribute names to be requested for work items uploaded to the folder.

Then at block the system requests and receives default values if any for the attributes from the folder creator. For example one metadata attribute that can be assigned to a legal folder is client name and a default value for client name can be Company ABC if all of the work items in the legal folder pertain to Company ABC.

At block the system requests and receives from the folder creator information about whether the given default metadata are editable. If the folder creator indicates that the default metadata for an attribute is not editable neither collaborators of the folder nor the user who uploads a work item to the folder is permitted to change the metadata for the attribute for the work item from the default value.

Then at block the system receives metadata if any from the user for the selected file attributes. The user is not required to provide metadata for the file before uploading a file to the online content management system. At block the system uploads the file even if the user has not provided any metadata for the required file attributes.

Then at block the system analyzes the file to determine metadata recommendations. At block the system recommends the determined metadata for the file to the user. At block the system receives the user s acceptance of any of the recommended metadata selections. The user does not have to accept any of the recommended metadata.

If a collaborator access a workspace block Yes at decision block the system determines if any files or work items are missing metadata for the attributes selected by the workspace creator for the work items uploaded to the workspace. If there are no files missing metadata block No the process ends at block .

If there are files in the workspace that are missing metadata block Yes at decision block the system determines if the collaborator accessing the workspace is permitted to add metadata. If the collaborator is not permitted to add metadata block No the process ends at block .

If the collaborator is permitted to add metadata block Yes at block the system displays a notice that metadata is needed the files that need metadata and the attributes for which metadata is missing for those files. In one embodiment the system can also permit the collaborator to add metadata for optional attributes not selected by the folder creator as long as the optional attribute has been created by the administrator.

Then at decision block the system determines if a file has been selected by the collaborator to add metadata. If the collaborator does not select a file for adding metadata block No the process ends at block .

If the collaborator selects a file block Yes at block the system receives the metadata for the file. Then at block the system updates the metadata database with the new metadata.

In alternative embodiments the machine operates as a standalone device or may be connected e.g. networked to other machines. In a networked deployment the machine may operate in the capacity of a server or a client machine in a client server network environment or as a peer machine in a peer to peer or distributed network environment.

The machine may be a server computer a client computer a personal computer PC a user device a tablet PC a laptop computer a set top box STB a personal digital assistant PDA a cellular telephone an iPhone an iPad a Blackberry a processor a telephone a web appliance a network router switch or bridge a console a hand held console a hand held gaming device a music player any portable mobile hand held device or any machine capable of executing a set of instructions sequential or otherwise that specify actions to be taken by that machine.

While the machine readable medium or machine readable storage medium is shown in an exemplary embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable medium and machine readable storage medium should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more sets of instructions. The term machine readable medium and machine readable storage medium shall also be taken to include any medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying a set of instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the presently disclosed technique and innovation.

In general the routines executed to implement the embodiments of the disclosure may be implemented as part of an operating system or a specific application component program object module or sequence of instructions referred to as computer programs. The computer programs typically comprise one or more instructions set at various times in various memory and storage devices in a computer and that when read and executed by one or more processing units or processors in a computer cause the computer to perform operations to execute elements involving the various aspects of the disclosure.

Moreover while embodiments have been described in the context of fully functioning computers and computer systems those skilled in the art will appreciate that the various embodiments are capable of being distributed as a program product in a variety of forms and that the disclosure applies equally regardless of the particular type of machine or computer readable media used to actually effect the distribution.

Further examples of machine readable storage media machine readable media or computer readable storage media include but are not limited to recordable type media such as volatile and non volatile memory devices floppy and other removable disks hard disk drives optical disks e.g. Compact Disk Read Only Memory CD ROMS Digital Versatile Disks DVDs etc. among others and transmission type media such as digital and analog communication links.

The network interface device enables the machine to mediate data in a network with an entity that is external to the host server through any known and or convenient communications protocol supported by the host and the external entity. The network interface device can include one or more of a network adaptor card a wireless network interface card a router an access point a wireless router a switch a multilayer switch a protocol converter a gateway a bridge bridge router a hub a digital media receiver and or a repeater.

The network interface device can include a firewall which can in some embodiments govern and or manage permission to access proxy data in a computer network and track varying levels of trust between different machines and or applications. The firewall can be any number of modules having any combination of hardware and or software components able to enforce a predetermined set of access rights between a particular set of machines and applications machines and machines and or applications and applications for example to regulate the flow of traffic and resource sharing between these varying entities. The firewall may additionally manage and or have access to an access control list which details permissions including for example the access and operation rights of an object by an individual a machine and or an application and the circumstances under which the permission rights stand.

Other network security functions can be performed or included in the functions of the firewall can be for example but are not limited to intrusion prevention intrusion detection next generation firewall personal firewall etc. without deviating from the novel art of this disclosure.

Unless the context clearly requires otherwise throughout the description and the claims the words comprise comprising and the like are to be construed in an inclusive sense i.e. to say in the sense of including but not limited to as opposed to an exclusive or exhaustive sense. As used herein the terms connected coupled or any variant thereof means any connection or coupling either direct or indirect between two or more elements. Such a coupling or connection between the elements can be physical logical or a combination thereof. Additionally the words herein above below and words of similar import when used in this application refer to this application as a whole and not to any particular portions of this application. Where the context permits words in the above Detailed Description using the singular or plural number may also include the plural or singular number respectively. The word or in reference to a list of two or more items covers all of the following interpretations of the word any of the items in the list all of the items in the list and any combination of the items in the list.

The above Detailed Description of examples of the invention is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed above. While specific examples for the invention are described above for illustrative purposes various equivalent modifications are possible within the scope of the invention as those skilled in the relevant art will recognize. While processes or blocks are presented in a given order in this application alternative implementations may perform routines having steps performed in a different order or employ systems having blocks in a different order. Some processes or blocks may be deleted moved added subdivided combined and or modified to provide alternative or subcombinations. Also while processes or blocks are at times shown as being performed in series these processes or blocks may instead be performed or implemented in parallel or may be performed at different times. Further any specific numbers noted herein are only examples. It is understood that alternative implementations may employ differing values or ranges.

The various illustrations and teachings provided herein can also be applied to systems other than the system described above. The elements and acts of the various examples described above can be combined to provide further implementations of the invention.

Any patents and applications and other references noted above including any that may be listed in accompanying filing papers are incorporated herein by reference. Aspects of the invention can be modified if necessary to employ the systems functions and concepts included in such references to provide further implementations of the invention.

These and other changes can be made to the invention in light of the above Detailed Description. While the above description describes certain examples of the invention and describes the best mode contemplated no matter how detailed the above appears in text the invention can be practiced in many ways. Details of the system may vary considerably in its specific implementation while still being encompassed by the invention disclosed herein. As noted above particular terminology used when describing certain features or aspects of the invention should not be taken to imply that the terminology is being redefined herein to be restricted to any specific characteristics features or aspects of the invention with which that terminology is associated. In general the terms used in the following claims should not be construed to limit the invention to the specific examples disclosed in the specification unless the above Detailed Description section explicitly defines such terms. Accordingly the actual scope of the invention encompasses not only the disclosed examples but also all equivalent ways of practicing or implementing the invention under the claims.

While certain aspects of the invention are presented below in certain claim forms the applicant contemplates the various aspects of the invention in any number of claim forms. For example while only one aspect of the invention is recited as a means plus function claim under 35 U.S.C. 112 sixth paragraph other aspects may likewise be embodied as a means plus function claim or in other forms such as being embodied in a computer readable medium. Any claims intended to be treated under 35 U.S.C. 112 6 will begin with the words means for. Accordingly the applicant reserves the right to add additional claims after filing the application to pursue such additional claim forms for other aspects of the invention.

