---

title: Methods of sharing a uniform resource locator (URL), and a URL sharing utility and social network facilitating group chat about shared links
abstract: A URL sharing utility and social network facilitates group discussions about shared links. Unlike conventional applications, this service enables live discussions about specific URLs, so people who join the discussion already share an interest in a particular topic. The sharing mechanism preferably enables many people around the world to see the discussion topic and join if they are interested. Sharing a URL together with a second URL reserved for a live discussion of the first URL preferably enables users to promote the discussion in a less socially risky way. A one-to-one correspondence between one URL and a second, predictable network address for the discussion of the original URL allows everyone who shares an interest in a URL to be funneled into a single discussion about that URL. Users preferably specify explicit social and professional networking policies so that every discussion with others carries the promise of a beneficial, lasting connection.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09077677&OS=09077677&RS=09077677
owner: 
number: 09077677
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20130313
---
This application claims one or more inventions which were disclosed in Provisional Application No. 61 648 476 filed May 17 2012 entitled A COMBINED URL SHARING UTILITY AND SOCIAL NETWORK THAT FACILITATES GROUP CHAT ABOUT SHARED LINKS . The benefit under 35 USC 119 e of the United States provisional application is hereby claimed and the aforementioned application is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

The invention pertains to the field of social media. More particularly the invention pertains to methods of sharing a uniform resource locator and services to provide live discussions about internet based content among previously unacquainted members of the public.

Many people want to increase their contacts on social networking sites such as Facebook Twitter LinkedIn and Google for social and professional reasons. However it is difficult to find and get to know new people online who share your interests and to determine among these people those with whom there might be a mutual interest in becoming friends followers or connections . Even if such potential contacts could be identified it is difficult for both parties to get to know each other well enough to be comfortable to agree to add each other on social networking sites or to make these new contacts socially or professionally meaningful.

There are a few non dating social websites that allow people who are unacquainted with each other to meet live online and discuss topics. Tinychat.com is a website in which people create their own public rooms that are assigned a name of their choosing and that are based on a live feed from their own webcam. Other Tinychat.com members can join these rooms if they wish to participate in text chat or add their own webcam feed to the room. The social network Google includes a similar feature called Hangouts in which users can create public rooms based on any name and a feed of their own webcam. As in Tinychat Google Hangout members can join hangouts and add their own webcam feed to the hangout. Similar services are provided by other web applications such as Spreecast.com and SocialMunch.com. Another web application Chattp.com does not easily allow unacquainted people to meet but it does provide a way for friends or acquaintances to chat live on a web page. Finally Gabbly.com and Yaplet.com two now defunct services allowed members of the public to chat in a sidebar frame on web pages.

Current chat applications fail to help people develop meaningful contacts because they fail to address the many inhibitions that most people feel about joining a public chat and even about announcing to others the availability of such a chat. As a result these sites and applications fail to bring together the numbers people with common interests in live chat rooms that are necessary to make the meeting of good friendship candidates likely. For example one of the inhibitors that prevent people from using chat sites is that readers must go out of their way to find and use them as a separate activity instead of seeing live social opportunities arise incidentally as they engage in their normal online activities.

Another inhibitor to joining live chats in rooms is that frequently the rooms are owned by an individual or group so that the prospect of joining them seems like an intrusion into someone else s private space as opposed to a meeting in a neutral location. In addition 1 existing chat applications are often typified by aimless if not vulgar discussions that at best serve as temporary distractions 2 they are often dominated by a single youthful demographic and may be or seem unwelcoming to people who do not fit this particular demographic 3 the sharing of links to join these live chats carries too much of a social risk for many people 4 meeting new people through these chat services seems pointless to many people even though meeting new like minded people in general may be an attractive prospect to them and 5 the topics assigned to public chat rooms are not specific enough to users interests to make the prospect of meeting other unknown people in a public chat devoted to these topics seem worthwhile.

In preferred embodiments a uniform resource locator URL or network address sharing utility and social network service facilitates group chat about shared links. Unlike conventional group chat applications the service enables members of the general public to engage with each other in live discussions about the content found at specific network addresses URLs so people who join the discussion already share an interest in a very specific particular topic. In some embodiments this group chat is a group video chat.

In preferred embodiments a method of facilitating the sharing of a first URL includes a computer receiving the first URL from a first user. The method also includes the computer automatically generating a second URL where the second URL points to at least one service related to the first URL and the service is useable by the first user and at least one additional user. The method further includes the computer providing the second URL to the first user.

In other preferred embodiments a method of sharing a first URL includes a first user providing the first URL to a URL sharing utility service. The method also includes the first user receiving from the URL sharing utility service a second URL where the second URL points to at least one service related to the first URL and the service is useable by the first user and at least one additional user. The method further includes the first user posting an electronic message including the first URL and the second URL to a social network location to share the first URL.

A mechanism provided by embodiments of the present invention to first facilitate sharing a URL and then automatically provide a second URL to a network site dedicated to a discussion about the content found a that first URL preferably enables many people around the world to share or see discussion links as they engage in their usual activities online. Since the public discussions that the service intends to foster are dependent on the use of the service as a URL sharing tool the service also offers an unusually convenient method for ordinary URL sharing as a way to encourage its use. The tool allows users to initiate the sharing of a page by typing a very simple set prefix such as shareanddiscussthis.com followed by the page s URL in the network address box of a web browser or by clicking a bookmarklet that automatically performs the same function. Alternatively users may also paste a URL into a particular text field on a web landing page owned or run by a party implementing the service to start the process of sharing that URL. After this point users may choose to share just a shortened URL resolving to the original URL just a shortened URL resolving to a discussion link about the original URL or both. Allowing a primary URL to be shared together with a secondary URL pointing to a live public discussion of this primary URL is an important aspect of the service because users typically feel shy about sharing a link to a chat room. Allowing users to provide a link to a public chat incidentally as an extra feature accompanying a normal URL link preferably reduces the inhibition to promoting such chat links.

The service creates for every primary URL a secondary predictable URL used for a public discussion of this same primary URL. This one to one correspondence means that all people worldwide who wish to follow a discussion link about a particular item such as a web page that is found at a URL are necessarily funneled into a single discussion about that item with other members of the general public. The fact that discussions do not belong to any particular user or group of users makes the meeting space neutral and preferably reduces the inhibitions to participating in chats that may occur with other chat services.

A number of additional preferred features of the service further reduce inhibitions to chat. For example users are preferably identified by real names so that civility is encouraged in contrast to pseudonymous chat. In a preferred embodiment discussions are divided into groups limited to four to eight people so that individuals in the group can get to know each other and so that their voices are not lost in a larger group. Users in the discussion platform also preferably specify social and professional networking policies in their user profiles. These social networking policies provide a practical incentive namely increasing social and professional contacts for people to participate in chat and also help reduce any inhibitions that might arise from participating in chats that do not have any explicit purpose or practical benefit. In addition the policies further reduce inhibitions to chat and reduce social risk by clarifying the expectations individuals have before they want to become contacts.

The URL sharing utility and social network service allows many different people who share interests to come together preferably identified by real names and get to know each other through discussions about shared links in a live setting. In some embodiments the live setting is a video chat room. In other embodiments the live setting is a non video chat room. These people are presumably grouped by interest because they naturally want to discuss pages they are commonly interested in. To help identify potential contacts among other members users preferably have searchable profiles that specify their social networking policies basically who they would like to connect with and under what circumstances on various social networking sites as well as in the real world. These explicit social networking policies provide an incentive for chat and reduce the social risk involved in reaching out to others to become contacts and the discussion medium provides a way for these users to get to know each other to the extent they want to before they do become contacts.

The URL sharing utility and social network differs from and improves upon what currently exists. No other application expands the features of a URL sharing utility by adding links to live discussions about shared URLs much less provide an entire social network based on group discussions. In some embodiments webcams are used to enable video chat rooms. Combining a URL sharing utility with a webcam based social network particularly when implemented with explicit personal friending policies and a requirement for non pseudonymous user identification solves a number of problems that have hindered previous efforts to encourage people to develop meaningful new friendships online.

As a tool to foster discussions and new connections among people URL sharing utility and social network preferably solves a particular problem related to human psychology People want to make new beneficial contacts but they feel shy about promoting the kinds of discussions that will encourage sufficient numbers of people to gather and enable them to develop those contacts. A preferred purpose of the URL sharing utility and social network is to lower the social risk of promoting discussions by allowing people to provide a second link to the discussion incidentally along with a normal link. The lowered social risk preferably ultimately brings more people together.

Beyond the case of using the URL sharing utility to promote discussions in the way described the URL sharing utility also may be used by anyone who wants minimize social risk as he or she enhances modifies or augments content related to a shared URL. For example someone might want to share a second link for vision impaired people that automatically reads the original page aloud but he or she might only feel comfortable providing this service incidentally. Alternatively he or she might want to translate all of his or her pages into the language of his or her community but he or she only feels comfortable doing so incidentally and so on. By lowering the social risk of providing any such service among a huge number of people the availability of that service in the public is generally increased.

Embedding a URL based discussion service as an incidental in a URL sharing utility preferably solves a problem that these URL based discussion services have to this point failed to attract many users.

For online chats to feel both enjoyable and worthwhile to much greater numbers of people such a chat needs to attract multiple simultaneous users who are grouped together by an interest in discussing a very specific topic users need to be identified by their real names the participation in and sharing of these live discussions should carry little or no social risk prospective users should perceive a practical and lasting benefit to participation and the topic of discussion should be naturally focused and substantive. Conventional chat formats do not meet any of these requirements.

Unlike conventional chat applications the URL sharing utility and social network service enables live discussions about content at specific URLs so people who join the discussion already share an interest in a very particular topic. Internet based content as used herein may be any kind of information posted at a specific URL with content that may include but is not limited to text images or audio. In some embodiments the group chat is a group video chat. In addition the sharing mechanism preferably enables many people around the world to see the discussion topic and join if they are interested. Sharing a URL together with a second URL reserved for a live discussion of the first URL preferably enables users to promote the live discussion in a less socially risky way. The very specific topic for each discussion preferably makes discussions more focused and comfortable. Creating a one to one correspondence between any primary URL and a secondary predictable network address used for a discussion of the primary URL enables all people worldwide who share an interest in a particular URL to be funneled into a single discussion about that URL. Users are preferably identified by real names so that civility is encouraged in contrast to pseudonymous chat. In a preferred embodiment discussion groups are limited to small groups of four to eight people so that individuals can get to know each other and their voices are not lost in a larger group. Users in the discussion platform preferably specify explicit social and professional networking policies so that every discussion with others carries the promise of a beneficial lasting connection.

In preferred embodiments a method of sharing a first uniform resource locator includes a computer receiving the first uniform resource locator from a user and the computer automatically generating a second uniform resource locator and a shortened version thereof for a webpage providing at least one service related to the first uniform resource locator.

In other preferred embodiments a method of sharing a discussion website with a plurality of users to discuss a content of a first uniform resource locator includes a computer receiving a request to discuss the first uniform resource locator from any of the plurality of users and the computer automatically generating a second uniform resource locator and a second version thereof for the discussion website.

In a preferred embodiment the web application includes two main pages the landing page shown in through and the URL discuss share page shown in and . Both of these pages include a shared URL text field the sharing feature a link to the discuss share bookmarklet and a link to user profiles.

In some embodiments a discuss share bookmarklet as shown in is used on desktop browsers to automatically add the fixed URL prefix to any network address currently being visited. When the URL prefix is added to any network address manually or by clicking the discuss share bookmarklet the resulting new network address referred to herein as the discuss share page long network address leads to the URL discuss share page which is dedicated to sharing and discussing the original URL.

The landing page of the service preferably includes a shared URL text field into which a user may paste any URL and then generate a shortened network address and or a URL discuss share page shortened network address along with a title text editable by the user and intended to accompany the link when shared. The shortened network address is preferably a shortened version of the long network address that also leads to the URL discuss share page. From the shared URL text field the user may use the sharing feature to share the shortened network address or the URL discuss share page shortened network address on various social networking sites or copy them to email.

The URL discuss share page preferably includes a shared URL text field pre populated with the shortened network address the URL discuss share page shortened network address and the title text. The user may use the sharing feature to share these network addresses from the shared URL text field. The discuss share page preferably also includes a web page thumbnail of the original shared page a link to visit the original page and a link to enter a video and text chat that is reserved and dedicated for discussion of the content of the original network address.

In a preferred embodiment a user must first create an account and sign in before entering the video and text chat. A user profile is preferably created with each user s account and each user may preferably edit his or her user profile or search other profiles by clicking links available on any page in the web site after the user has signed in.

When the chat room is a video and text chat room the chat room preferably includes multiple groups of a fixed maximum number of webcams such as seven or eight per group. Each user may preferably view the other users in each group and enter into any group with available space.

The URL sharing utility and social network service is preferably used to help people share a URL help foster discussion about a URL among the general public or both.

Before using the URL sharing utility and social network the user may optionally take the preparatory step of installing the share discuss bookmarklet in his or her web browser s toolbar.

When the user wants to share and or discuss a page the user is currently visiting he or she may do so by taking any of the following three actions 

B. Typing the URL prefix before the URL of the currently visited page in the address box of the web browser and then pressing the Enter key.

C. Pasting the URL of the web page into the shared URL text field on the landing page of the service.

If the user chooses option A or option B the URL discuss share page opens which is a central tool of the URL sharing utility and social network. The URL discuss share page for any given URL is preferably found at the network address URL PREFIX ORIGINAL URL . This page by default preferably includes a thumbnail of the original page a set of standard links including options to search or edit user profiles an entry button to enter a live discussion about the original page and a shared URL text field that preferably includes by default the title of the original page a shortened URL of the original network address and a shortened URL preferably labeled as Live discussion of the currently visited URL discuss share page network address. The user preferably may adjust the content of the shared URL text field by choosing options to include either only the shortened URL of the original network address and its page title or only the shortened URL of the currently visited URL discuss share page network address the original page title and the label Live discussion . The user preferably may also manually edit the content of the shared URL text field. Options to share the content of the shared URL text field on social networks or copy the content to a memory buffer i.e. a clipboard are connected to the shared URL text field.

If the user instead chooses option C instead of option A or option B above the URL that the user pastes into the shared URL text field of the landing page is automatically shortened and at the same time the title of the page appears before this newly shortened URL. In addition a shortened network address pointing to the URL discuss share page for the originally pasted URL is also preferably included by default preceded by the label Live discussion. As on the URL discuss share page on the landing page the user preferably may adjust the content of the shared URL text field.

Users preferably always enter live video chat discussions about a given URL through its corresponding URL discuss share page. Users preferably may arrive at this page by clicking on a link to it which may appear on a social networking site or elsewhere by clicking the bookmarklet while visiting any page or by entering the fixed URL prefix before a network address they are currently visiting.

The URL discuss share page preferably includes an entry button to the live video chat discussion. A user preferably must create an account and sign in to the site before he or she is granted entry to the discussion. In a preferred embodiment when the user creates his or her account the user must specify a Facebook user name and password or another service that requires a user name that is the user s real name. This real name and photo identify the user in the live discussions.

When the user enters the live discussion he or she is placed in a small discussion group of a fixed small number of people. In a preferred embodiment the maximum number of people in a room is eight. If more people want to enter a discussion than are available in the first discussion group they are placed in overspill groups. In a preferred embodiment paying subscribers may look at the membership of all of these groups and enter the group of their choice. In a preferred embodiment a paying subscriber may also lock a group as private so that no new entrants are allowed. Within a group all user camera feeds preferably appear and these feeds are preferably identified by real names and photos of the users.

A user preferably may click on another user s name to open his or her profile. Paying subscribers preferably may also use a search function to locate other users within a given geographical distance who match selected criteria.

The URL sharing utility and social network preferably includes a web server a database server and the following network services all of which may be provided by one or more third parties 

a. Login application programming interfaces APIs for a social networking site in which users are identified only by real names.

The URL sharing utility and social network communicates between web clients and the web server. The domain name server DNS may be any available DNS. The URL sharing utility and social network preferably needs to build five sets of services for the DNS namely landing page services discuss share page services discuss share bookmarklet video text chat services and database user account services. These services are preferably built by using code and scripts to provide the features described herein.

In a preferred embodiment the most important elements of the URL sharing utility and social network include the text URL sharing service and some version of chat offered through a link shared with the original URL.

In a preferred embodiment highly recommended elements of the URL sharing utility and social network include a public URL shortening service a discuss share page preferably found at a network address such as URL PREFIX ORIGINAL URL providing a second shortened version of the network address URL PREFIX ORIGINAL URL third party login user identification via a social networking site in which users are identified by real names searchable user profiles specifying social networking policies and a mechanism to allow private chat among group members or to lock and hide a discussion group so that a group discussion is made private.

In a preferred embodiment additional elements of the URL sharing utility and social network include one or more of an interface for mobile phones and electronic tablets an API allowing developers to create their own software interfaces to the URL sharing utility and social network an API allowing developers to build on the live discussion platform with applications that allow collaboration or provide some common group activity connections to one or more payment services such as for example PayPal for users who sell goods or services to each other a discussion board as opposed to live chat at the discuss share page network address a method to facilitate and augment the sharing of live virtual meetings constructed around URLs that specify a physical location on earth or in space and generic code available to web administrators enabling them to include a direct link for users to enter the live discussion without using the bookmarklet.

A user develops meaningful new friends followers and contacts online by using the URL sharing utility and social network to participate in discussions and read user profiles of other members and by then initiating connections with chosen users on social networking sites in a manner that is consistent with the preferences specified in their profiles.

A user may use the URL sharing utility and social network to join these live discussions in any of four different ways. First the user may click a link to a live discussion that someone else has created by using the URL sharing utility and social network. Such link may be posted and found in e mail in public forums on Facebook pages or by searching for hashtags on Twitter or other services. Second the user may click on a link to a live discussion that the user has created or posted by using the URL sharing utility and social network. To create a link to a live discussion of a particular web page a user may paste the URL of the web page on the landing page of the URL sharing utility and social network. This step preferably automatically generates a live discussion link that the user may copy or share. Alternatively the user may first type the network address prefix before the network address of the currently visited page in a web browser or click on the share discuss bookmarklet when the user is visiting a page he or she want to discuss or share. At this point a link to a live discussion that the user may copy or share preferably automatically appears in the shared URL text field in a new URL discuss share page that opens. Third the user may use the network address prefix or the bookmarklet to open the discuss share page and then join a live discussion directly from the newly opened discuss share page. Fourth the user may visit a page provided by the URL sharing utility and social network that displays a list of currently active discussions and then click on a link to one of these active discussions.

To read user profiles of other users a user may simply click on another user in a particular chat room the user has entered. A user may also select a Search Profiles link to search for users according to selected criteria such as interests distance or social networking policies.

After the user enters the URL of the internet based content of interest into the URL text field and presses the Enter key or otherwise indicates that the URL entry is complete the URL sharing utility and social network website analyzes the entered URL. During this analysis the URL sharing utility and social network website preferably provides feedback to the user of this process such as by displaying an analyzing link . . . message as shown in .

The URL sharing utility and social network website preferably returns text that may be used by the user as a message into a post by the user on another social website such as Facebook for example. shows a message returned by the URL sharing utility and social network website to the shared URL text field . The message in is preferably the default original form of the message returned by the website after finishing the analysis of the URL entered in the shared URL text field . The message includes a shortened network address for the original URL http bit.ly.wXdP8c in and a shortened URL discuss share page network address http shel.cl r8jTx9 in . shows an alternative message and shows another alternative message each of which may be alternatively provided by the URL sharing utility and social network website which may be based on a user request or edited from the first message by the user in the shared URL text field .

As shown in through once the URL sharing utility and social network finishes analyzing the user entered URL additional features preferably appear around the shared URL text field . These features include a character count social media post buttons a link to display the version of the postable message shown in which includes a link only to the original URL but not a link to a live discussion a link to display the version of the postable message shown in which includes a link only to a live discussion but not a link to the original URL and a link to re display the original version of the postable message shown in which includes links both for the original URL and a live discussion.

The webpage includes a share portion a discuss portion and a shared URL thumbnail portion . The share portion includes the shared URL text field with the postable message the character count for the postable message the social media post buttons and the three links to display three different versions of the postable message that include either both the original URL and discussion links or just a link to the original URL or just the discussion link. The discuss portion includes a social network login link and allows the user to sign in to see who is discussing the shared URL. Although the social network login link is shown as a Facebook login link one or more login links to any social network website may be used within the spirit of the present invention. The shared URL thumbnail portion shows a thumbnail of the shared URL.

In some embodiments a user finding live chats of interest to the user is aided in the following way. Postable messages all include a hashtag such as for example shareanddiscussthis by default so that users can search public posts for this hashtag on social networking sites. The URL sharing utility and social network website then includes a feature to facilitate searching for the hashtag on social networks and in some embodiments a list of featured active discussions.

Although the present invention has been described primarily in terms of a URL sharing utility and social network certain aspects of the invention may have broader applications. In some embodiments the URL sharing utility allows a user to share automatically generated secondary links that may provide any number of services related to a primary shared URL. In some embodiments the new website provides through the secondary link statistics about the primary website which may include but are not limited to the date the primary website was first available or visited the date the primary website was last modified or visited the number of visitors and the length of time the visitors spent at the primary URL website. Other services automatically provided by the secondary link may include a service that suggests sites similar to that of the primary link a service that provides search term results at the page of the primary link for a term entered at the time the URL is shared a service that provides ownership information about the domain name included in the full primary link as opposed to its shortened URL version a service that provides company information about the organization owning the domain name of that full primary link and a service that provides an automatic translation of the page at the primary link into one or more of any number of languages translatable by the service.

The URL sharing utility and social network website and URL sharing utilities and methods are computer implemented and preferably internet based. The methods and displays presented herein are not inherently related to any particular computer or other apparatus. Various general purpose systems may also be used with programs in accordance with the teachings herein or it may prove convenient to construct more specialized apparatus to perform the required method steps. In addition the present invention is not described with reference to any particular programming language. It is appreciated that a variety of programming languages may be used to implement the teachings of the present invention as described herein and any references to specific languages are provided for disclosure of enablement and best mode of the present invention.

The present invention is well suited to a wide variety of computer network systems over numerous topologies. Within this field the configuration and management of large networks include storage devices and computers that are communicatively coupled to dissimilar computers and storage devices over a network such as the internet. A computer as used herein may be any automated processor that operates based on following instruction codes. In some embodiments a computer refers to a network of two or more processors working together to follow such instruction codes. In some embodiments the computer is a web server for a URL sharing utility and social network website.

Accordingly it is to be understood that the embodiments of the invention herein described are merely illustrative of the application of the principles of the invention. Reference herein to details of the illustrated embodiments is not intended to limit the scope of the claims which themselves recite those features regarded as essential to the invention.

