---

title: Techniques for spare storage pool management
abstract: Techniques for spare storage pool management are disclosed. In one particular embodiment, the techniques may be realized as a method for spare storage pool management comprising receiving spare storage configuration information for a storage drive pool comprising a plurality of storage drives, maintaining spare storage mapping information to spare storage within the storage drive pool based at least in part on the spare storage configuration information, monitoring spare storage within the storage drive pool for detecting block failures within the storage drive pool, detecting a failure of a block in a first storage drive of the plurality of storage drives, and updating the spare storage mapping information associated with the failed block in the first storage drive to map to a spare block in a second storage drive of the plurality of storage drives.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09235486&OS=09235486&RS=09235486
owner: Symantec Corporation
number: 09235486
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130930
---
The present disclosure relates generally to improving reliability of storage pools and more particularly to techniques for spare storage pool management.

Storage drives wear out over time. For example both flash memory cells in a solid state drive SSD and spinning disk sectors in a mechanical hard disk drive HDD can degrade or otherwise become unusable over time. The average time it takes for a storage drive to wear out to the point of failure is called the Mean Time Before Failure MTBF . Techniques to extend the useful life of a drive increase its MTBF.

Spinning disk sectors and flash memory cells degrade or become unusable in a relatively unpredictable manner. The failure of one sector or cell does not necessarily imply the same for others. For example magnetic sectors from spinning disks may be written to or read from many times without a given limit and without warning may fail to process a write or read properly. In the case of flash memory cells wear out on average after a given number of write cycles in addition to other unpredictable and sudden failures.

To compensate for these failures storage drive manufactures can overprovision the storage drive with spare groups of sectors or cells called blocks. Instead of counting the spare blocks toward the stated capacity of the storage drive the storage drive reserves the spare blocks to increase its MTBF. In the case of memory that wears out over time such as flash memory the spare blocks may also be used for wear leveling. Wear leveling spreads write commands to the storage drive more evenly across all of its blocks to increase the time it would take for any one block to fail. As blocks do fail the spare blocks may be used to replace the failed blocks. The bigger the pool of spare blocks the longer a storage drive is likely to function according to its MTBF. Due to the unpredictable nature of these failures individual storage drives deplete their pools of spare blocks at different times even if the drives are all part of the same storage pool e.g. Redundant Array of Independent Disks RAID . Any drive failure in a storage pool poses the risk of potential data loss. Even in redundant or parity based storage pools any drive failure in a storage pool poses a potential data loss risk due to a reduction of fault tolerance until the drive is replaced in the pool.

In view of the foregoing it may be understood that there may be significant problems and shortcomings associated with conventional technologies for managing spare blocks in a storage drive pool.

Techniques for spare storage pool management are disclosed. In one particular embodiment the techniques may be realized as a method for spare storage pool management comprising receiving spare storage configuration information for a storage drive pool comprising a plurality of storage drives maintaining spare storage mapping information to spare storage within the storage drive pool based at least in part on the spare storage configuration information monitoring spare storage within the storage drive pool for detecting block failures within the storage drive pool detecting a failure of a block in a first storage drive of the plurality of storage drives and updating the spare storage mapping information associated with the failed block in the first storage drive to map to a spare block in a second storage drive of the plurality of storage drives.

In accordance with further aspects of this particular embodiment wherein the spare block may comprise at least one flash memory cell of a solid state drive and wherein maintaining spare storage mapping information may further comprise techniques for wear leveling of a plurality of blocks from throughout the storage drive pool.

In accordance with further aspects of this particular embodiment wherein updating the spare storage mapping information may further comprise mapping to a second spare block in accordance with a fault tolerance of a parity based configuration of the storage drive pool.

In accordance with further aspects of this particular embodiment wherein the spare storage configuration information may comprise a number of spare blocks available in each storage drive of the plurality of storage drives.

In accordance with further aspects of this particular embodiment wherein updating the spare storage mapping information of the failed block may further comprise determining that the first storage drive comprises a first number of spare blocks less than a threshold number of spare blocks and determining that the second storage drive comprises a second number of spare blocks greater than or equal to the threshold number of spare blocks.

In accordance with further aspects of this particular embodiment wherein updating the spare storage mapping information of the failed block further may comprise determining that mapping to the spare block of the second storage drive provides a higher fault tolerance for the storage drive pool than a mapping to a second spare block of the first storage drive.

In accordance with further aspects of this particular embodiment which may further comprise monitoring the plurality of storage drives within the storage drive pool to detect SMART indicators.

In accordance with further aspects of this particular embodiment which may further comprise determining that the first storage drive has entered a fault state wherein the updated spare storage mapping to the spare block in the second storage drive may enable continued use of the first storage drive.

In another particular exemplary embodiment the techniques may be realized as a system for spare storage pool management comprising one or more processors communicatively coupled to a network wherein the one or more processors may be configured to maintain spare storage mapping information to spare storage within the storage drive pool based at least in part on the spare storage configuration information monitor spare storage within the storage drive pool for detecting block failures within the storage drive pool detect a failure of a block in a first storage drive of the plurality of storage drives and update the spare storage mapping information associated with the failed block in the first storage drive to map to a spare block in a second storage drive of the plurality of storage drives.

In accordance with additional aspects of this particular embodiment wherein the spare block may comprise at least one flash memory cell of a solid state drive and wherein maintain spare storage mapping information may further comprise techniques for wear leveling of a plurality of blocks from throughout the storage drive pool.

In accordance with additional aspects of this particular embodiment wherein update the spare storage mapping information may further comprise mapping to a second spare block in accordance with a fault tolerance of a parity based configuration of the storage drive pool.

In accordance with additional aspects of this particular embodiment wherein the spare storage configuration information may comprise a number of spare blocks available in each storage drive of the plurality of storage drives.

In accordance with additional aspects of this particular embodiment wherein the one or more processors are further configured to determine that the first storage drive comprises a first number of spare blocks less than a threshold number of spare blocks and determine that the second storage drive comprises a second number of spare blocks greater than or equal to the threshold number of spare blocks.

In accordance with additional aspects of this particular embodiment wherein update the spare storage mapping information of the failed block may further comprise determine that mapping to the spare block of the second storage drive may provide a higher fault tolerance for the storage drive pool than a mapping to a second spare block of the first storage drive.

In yet another particular exemplary embodiment the techniques may be realized as an article of manufacture for spare storage pool management the article of manufacture comprising at least one non transitory processor readable storage medium and instructions stored on the at least one medium wherein the instructions are configured to be readable from the at least one medium by at least one processor and thereby may cause the at least one processor to operate so as to maintain spare storage mapping information to spare storage within the storage drive pool based at least in part on the spare storage configuration information monitor spare storage within the storage drive pool for detecting block failures within the storage drive pool detect a failure of a block in a first storage drive of the plurality of storage drives and update the spare storage mapping information associated with the failed block in the first storage drive to map to a spare block in a second storage drive of the plurality of storage drives.

In accordance with additional aspects of this particular embodiment wherein the spare block may comprise at least one flash memory cell of a solid state drive and wherein maintain spare storage mapping information may further comprise techniques for wear leveling of a plurality of blocks from throughout the storage drive pool.

In accordance with additional aspects of this particular embodiment wherein update the spare storage mapping information may further comprise mapping to a second spare block in accordance with a fault tolerance of a parity based configuration of the storage drive pool.

In accordance with additional aspects of this particular embodiment wherein the spare storage configuration information may comprise a number of spare blocks available in each storage drive of the plurality of storage drives.

In accordance with additional aspects of this particular embodiment the instructions may cause the at least one processor to operate further so as to determine that the first storage drive may comprise a first number of spare blocks less than a threshold number of spare blocks and determine that the second storage drive may comprise a second number of spare blocks greater than or equal to the threshold number of spare blocks.

In accordance with additional aspects of this particular embodiment wherein update the spare storage mapping information of the failed block may further comprise determine that mapping to the spare block of the second storage drive provides a higher fault tolerance for the storage drive pool than a mapping to a second spare block of the first storage drive.

The present disclosure will now be described in more detail with reference to particular embodiments thereof as shown in the accompanying drawings. While the present disclosure is described below with reference to particular embodiments it should be understood that the present disclosure is not limited thereto. Those of ordinary skill in the art having access to the teachings herein will recognize additional implementations modifications and embodiments as well as other fields of use which are within the scope of the present disclosure as described herein and with respect to which the present disclosure may be of significant utility.

With reference to computer system of modem network interface or some other method may be used to provide connectivity from one or more of client systems and to network . Client systems and may be able to access information on server A or B using for example a web browser or other client software not shown . Such a client may allow client systems and to access data hosted by server A or B or one of storage devices A N B N and or N .

Networks and may be local area networks LANs wide area networks WANs the Internet cellular networks satellite networks or other networks that permit communication between clients servers and other devices communicatively coupled to networks and . Networks and may further include one or any number of the exemplary types of networks mentioned above operating as a stand alone network or in cooperation with each other. Networks and may utilize one or more protocols of one or more clients or servers to which they are communicatively coupled. Networks and may translate to or from other protocols to one or more protocols of network devices. Although networks and are each depicted as one network it should be appreciated that according to one or more embodiments networks and may each comprise a plurality of interconnected networks.

Storage devices A N B N and or N may be network accessible storage and may be local remote or a combination thereof to server A or B. Storage devices A N B N and or N may utilize a redundant array of inexpensive disks RAID magnetic tape disk a storage area network SAN an internet small computer systems interface iSCSI SAN a Fibre Channel SAN a common Internet File System CIFS network attached storage NAS a network file system NFS optical based storage or other computer accessible storage. Storage devices A N B N and or N may be used for backup or archival purposes.

According to some embodiments clients and may be smartphones PDAs desktop computers laptop computers servers other computers or other devices coupled via a wireless or wired connection to network . Clients and may receive data from user input a database a file a web service and or an application programming interface.

Servers A and B may be application servers archival platforms backup servers network storage devices media servers email servers document management platforms enterprise search servers or other devices communicatively coupled to network . Servers A and B may utilize one of storage devices A N B N and or N for the storage of application data backup data or other data. Servers A and B may be hosts such as an application server which may process data traveling between clients and and a backup platform a backup process and or storage. According to some embodiments servers A and B may be platforms used for backing up and or archiving data. One or more portions of data may be backed up or archived based on a backup policy and or an archive applied attributes associated with the data source space available for backup space available at the data source or other factors.

According to some embodiments clients and or may contain one or more portions of software for duplication such as for example spare storage pool management module . As illustrated one or more portions of spare storage pool management module may reside at a network centric location. For example server A may be a server a firewall a gateway or other network element that may perform one or more actions to scan web applications for vulnerabilities. According to some embodiments network may be an external network e.g. the Internet and server A may be a gateway or firewall between one or more internal components and clients and the external network. According to some embodiments spare storage pool management module may be implemented as part of a cloud computing environment.

Bus allows data communication between central processor and system memory which may include read only memory ROM or flash memory neither shown and random access memory RAM not shown as previously noted. The RAM may be the main memory into which the operating system and application programs may be loaded. The ROM or flash memory can contain among other code the Basic Input Output system BIOS which controls basic hardware operation such as the interaction with peripheral components. Applications resident with computer system may be stored on and accessed via a computer readable medium such as a hard disk drive e.g. fixed disk an optical drive e.g. optical drive a floppy disk unit or other storage medium. For example spare storage pool management module may be resident in system memory .

Storage interface as with the other storage interfaces of computer system can connect to a standard computer readable medium for storage and or retrieval of information such as a fixed disk drive . Fixed disk drive may be a part of computer system or may be separate and accessed through other interface systems. Modem may provide a direct connection to a remote server via a telephone link or to the Internet via an internet service provider ISP . Network interface may provide a direct connection to a remote server via a direct network link to the Internet via a POP point of presence . Network interface may provide such connection using wireless techniques including digital cellular telephone connection Cellular Digital Packet Data CDPD connection digital satellite data connection or the like.

Many other devices or subsystems not shown may be connected in a similar manner e.g. document scanners digital cameras and so on . Conversely all of the devices shown in need not be present to practice the present disclosure. The devices and subsystems can be interconnected in different ways from that shown in . Code to implement the present disclosure may be stored in computer readable storage media such as one or more of system memory fixed disk optical disk or floppy disk . Code to implement the present disclosure may also be received via one or more interfaces and stored in memory. The operating system provided on computer system may be MS DOS MS WINDOWS OS 2 OS X UNIX Linux or another known operating system.

Power manager may monitor a power level of battery . Power manager may provide one or more APIs Application Programming Interfaces to allow determination of a power level of a time window remaining prior to shutdown of computer system a power consumption rate an indicator of whether computer system is on mains e.g. AC Power or battery power and other power related information. According to some embodiments APIs of power manager may be accessible remotely e.g. accessible to a remote backup management module via a network connection . According to some embodiments battery may be an Uninterruptable Power Supply UPS located either local to or remote from computer system . In such embodiments power manager may provide information about a power level of an UPS.

Referring to there is shown modules of a spare storage pool management module in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure. A spare storage pool management module may contain one or more components including a spare storage configuration module a spare storage mapping module and a spare storage monitoring module .

The description below describes network elements computers and or components of a system and method for duplication that may include one or more modules. As used herein the term module may be understood to refer to computing software firmware hardware and or various combinations thereof. Modules however are not to be interpreted as software which is not implemented on hardware firmware or recorded on a processor readable recordable storage medium i.e. modules are not software per se . It is noted that the modules are exemplary. The modules may be combined integrated separated and or duplicated to support various applications. Also a function described herein as being performed at a particular module may be performed at one or more other modules and or by one or more other devices instead of or in addition to the function performed at the particular module. Further the modules may be implemented across multiple devices and or other components local or remote to one another. Additionally the modules may be moved from one device and added to another device and or may be included in both devices.

Spare storage pool management module may be communicatively coupled to a storage drive pool module . In some embodiments storage drive pool module may be one of the several storage elements described above with respect to . For example storage device A may comprise the storage drive pool module . In other embodiments the storage drive pool module may comprise the plurality of storage devices A N . Storage drive pool module may comprise a separate element of network architecture not otherwise shown in . Network architecture may comprise one or more spare storage pool management modules including spare storage connected to one or more storage drive pool modules including storage drive pool module .

A storage drive pool may comprise one or more storage drives. According to some embodiments storage drive pool module comprises a first storage drive A and a second storage drive B. Storage drive pool module may comprise an additional plurality of storage drives not shown . In some embodiments first storage drive A and second storage drive B may be communicatively coupled. In other embodiments storage drive A and second storage drive B may not be communicatively coupled. Each storage drive of the storage drive pool module may comprise its own storage drive controller not shown and storage drive pool module may also comprise one or more storage drive pool controllers not shown that are communicatively coupled to all or some of the storage drives such as the first storage drive A and the second storage drive B. In some embodiments the controller may be a RAID controller and the storage drive pool may have a RAID configuration including parity based RAID or RAID like configurations such as RAID 5 RAID 6 or similar.

The first storage drive A may comprise a plurality of blocks. Each block may be further subdivided into smaller storage elements not shown . For example a mechanical hard disk drive may comprise blocks that further comprise sectors of magnetized storage elements. For another example a solid state drive may comprise blocks that further comprise cells of flash memory such as NAND flash memory. Each sector or cell may store one or more bits written to the storage drive pool module .

According to some embodiments some blocks may be designated as main blocks for storing data written to the storage drive pool module such as a first set of main blocks A. The first set of main blocks A comprise a plurality of blocks including a first main block A and a second main block A in addition to any number of additional main blocks not shown .

According to some embodiments some other blocks may be reserved as spare blocks to replace main blocks as they fail e.g. transition from a good block to a bad block. The first storage drive A may comprise a first set of spare blocks A. The first set of spare blocks A comprise a plurality blocks including a first spare block A and a second spare block A in addition to any number of additional spare blocks not shown .

In some embodiments a storage drive may optionally not classify a block as being either a main block or a spare block. For example a flash memory storage drive may use techniques such as wear leveling techniques to spread write requests among all of the blocks to reduce the wear on any one block instead of or in addition to reserving some blocks as spare blocks. The storage drive may be overprovisioned with additional blocks such that some subset of blocks may fail without the storage device falling below its stated capacity. Some storage drives may use a combination of wear leveling techniques and reserved blocks classified as spare blocks.

In some embodiments the second storage drive B may be configured similarly to the first storage drive A comprising a second set of main blocks B and a second set of spare blocks B wherein the second set of main blocks B further comprise a plurality of blocks including a third main block B a fourth main block B in addition to any number of additional main blocks not shown and wherein the second set of spare blocks B further comprise a plurality of blocks including a third spare block B and a fourth spare block B in addition to any number of additional spare blocks not shown .

Storage drive pool module may comprise a uniform or homogeneous set of identically or nearly identically configured storage drives. In other embodiments storage drive pool module may comprise a heterogeneous set of arbitrarily configured storage drives. The heterogeneous set may contain drives of different stated capacities types speed or number of spare blocks available if any. In some embodiments some storage drives may have zero spare blocks and zero over provisioning or some storage drives may exclusively consist of spare blocks. Although only two drives are shown in any number of drives may be permitted or required. For example RAID 5 configurations require a minimum of three storage drives and RAID 6 configurations require a minimum of four storage drives.

In returning to exemplary components of the spare storage pool management module according to some embodiments the spare storage configuration module may be responsible for determining spare storage information about each storage drive in the storage drive pool module . The spare storage configuration module may read out properties of a storage drive such as its type capacity speed or number of reserved spare blocks if any. In some embodiments the spare storage configuration module may be enabled to configure aspects of the storage drive pool module or the aspects of individual storage drives with the storage drive pool module . For example the spare storage configuration module may be enabled to configure the first storage drive A to convert some number of spare blocks into main blocks or vice versa. The spare storage configuration module may also read out properties of the storage drive pool module such as whether it is configured in a particular RAID configuration.

The spare storage configuration module may be communicative coupled to one or more other components of the spare storage pool management module such as spare storing mapping module spare storage monitoring module and or other elements not shown such as a spare storage pool management controller not shown . The spare storage configuration module may read or write properties during initialization of the spare storage pool management module and it may read or write properties during operation of the spare storage pool management module thereafter. The spare storage configuration module may communicate information about the storage drive pool module to other components including but not limited to properties such as the total number of storage drives in the storage drive pool module the total number of spare blocks across all of the storage drives in the storage drive pool module or whether the storage drive pool module is configured in a particular RAID configuration.

The spare storage mapping module may be responsible for determining which spare blocks if any should receive read and write requests from other components within the network architecture or the computer system . For example the spare storage mapping module may convert a logical memory addresses designated by an external element into a physical block address within the storage drive pool module . In other embodiments the spare storage mapping module may convert a first logical memory address designated by an external element into a second logical memory address which in turn may be converted into a physical address by the storage drive pool module or a storage drive such as storage drive A. In some embodiments the spare storage mapping module may map a particular logical address to a specific block such as main block A or spare block B. In other embodiments the spare storage mapping module may map a particular first logical address to a second logical address designating particular set of blocks such as main blocks A or spare blocks B and in turn the storage drive pool module or the a particular storage drive further maps the second logical address to a specific block such as main block A or spare block B.

The spare storage mapping module may receive information from other components such as the spare storage monitoring module regarding the state of a particular block set of blocks storage drive or the storage drive pool module . In response to information received the spare storage mapping module may adjust a particular mapping whereby a particular logical address may map to a different physical address following the adjustment.

The spare storage mapping module may treat sets of spare blocks from distinct storage drives such as the first set of spare blocks A on the first storage drive A and the second set of spare blocks B on the second storage drive B as a unified spare storage pool. In this way one or more spare blocks of one or more storage drives may be used to replace a failed main block of a different storage drive. For example if the first main block A fails the spare storage mapping module may choose any available spare blocks in the unified spare block pool to replace the failed main block A.

In some embodiments the spare storage mapping module may preferentially select a spare block available within the same storage drive A such as the first spare block A. In other embodiments the spare storage mapping module may preferentially select a spare block that will result in optimal fault tolerance. For example remapping from failed main block A on the first storage drive A to the third spare block B on the second storage drive B may result in greater fault tolerance than if the first spare block A had been selected. For another example the spare storage mapping module may determine a threshold or average number of available spare blocks for an individual storage drive and may map to spare blocks within a storage drive with a number of available spare blocks that is greater than the determined threshold or average number of available spare blocks.

In yet another example the spare storage mapping module may copy data to at least one additional spare block to maintain the fault tolerance required for certain storage drive pool configurations such as parity based configurations in RAID 5 RAID 6 or similar configurations. Alternatively spare storage mapping module may change mappings based on any number of possible techniques including random selection or a round robin selection etc.

Furthermore according to some embodiments the spare storage mapping module need not wait for a block to fail before changing a mapping. For example the spare storage mapping module may implement a wear leveling technique for flash memory components of the storage drive pool module . This wear leveling technique substitute or complement other wear leveling techniques carried out by components of the storage drive pool module or any of the individual storage drives.

According to some embodiments regardless of the mapping and remapping techniques used by the spare storage mapping module the spare storage mapping module increases the MTBF of individual storage drives. If a storage drive were limited to its own set of spare blocks the storage drive may fail or otherwise enter a fault state and need to be replaced when enough blocks failed that its set of spare blocks approached or reached zero. Because the spare storage mapping module may replace a failed block of one storage drive with a spare block of a different storage drive any given storage drive may not be limited to its own set of spare blocks. Instead the spare blocks may be pooled and used as needed across any number of storage drives with the storage drive pool module . Thus similar to the way pooling storage drives in a storage drive pool such as storage drive pool module increases the overall capacity available to its host system pooling spare storage in a spare storage pool managed by the spare storage pool management module increases the overall reliability redundancy and fault tolerance of the storage drive pool module .

In some embodiments the spare storage pool mapping functionality may not be limited to the functionality of the spare storage mapping module or even the spare storage pool management module as a whole. For example spare storage pool mapping functionality may be implemented on a storage pool layer of an operating system by reserving a group of available blocks e.g. sets of spare blocks on each storage drive for this spare pool or it may be implemented in the firmware of each storage drive which expose inner mappings or other configurations and properties of spare blocks in each respective storage drive.

The spare storage monitoring module may be communicatively coupled to components of the spare storage pool management module such as the spare storage mapping module . The spare storage monitoring module may be responsible for monitoring one or more statuses or properties of the storage drive pool module as well as monitoring storage drives in the pool such as the first storage drive A and the second storage drive B. For example in some embodiments the spare storage monitoring module may be capable of detecting when a block has failed within the storage drive pool module and communicate information about the block failure to the spare storage mapping module .

In some embodiments the spare storage monitoring module may detect Self Monitoring Analysis and Reporting SMART indicators or customized variations of SMART from the storage drives. The spare storage monitoring module may receive warnings related to reliability or anticipated failure of a storage drive. In response to such warnings or other indicators of anticipated or actual failure the spare storage monitoring module may generate a report indicating the nature of the warning or indicator and may further generate a recommended course of action such as recommending replacement of a particular storage drive.

In some embodiments the spare storage monitoring module may generate regular reports at periodic intervals including reports that no warnings or other indicators had been received or otherwise detected. The spare storage monitoring module may detect track or store other metrics and measurements regarding the storage drive pool module as well as for the individual storage drives or blocks therein. For example the spare storage monitoring module may use a combination of storage drive specifications and or storage drive measurements to compute the MTBF for any storage drive of the storage drive pool module . Referring to there is depicted a method for spare storage pool management in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure. At block the method may begin.

At block spare storage configuration information may be received regarding a storage drive pool. In some embodiments the spare storage configuration information may be an index to the spare blocks available in each of the storage drives in the storage drive pool. In some embodiments the spare storage configuration may be continuously updated. After some or all of at least the initial configuration information has been received the method may proceed to block .

At block spare storage mapping information to spare storage within the storage drive pool may be maintained. In some embodiments maintenance of the spare storage mapping information may include generating initial spare storage mapping information when the system is first initialized or powered on. Maintenance may also include continuously updating according to one or more techniques for storage drive pool management such as wear leveling techniques. After at least some or all of the initial spare storage mapping information has been generated or maintained the method may proceed to block . In some embodiments the method may proceed to block prior to or in parallel with the preceding blocks.

At block spare storage of the storage pool may be monitored for detecting failures of blocks within the storage drive pool. Other indicators of anticipated failures such as SMART warnings or other messages may be monitored or received as well.

At block a block failure in a first storage drive may be detected. The failed block may have failed for any reason. For example if the block is comprised of flash memory cells one or more flash memory cells within the failed block may have worn out. In some embodiments multiple block failures may be detected simultaneously. In still other embodiments block failures may be reported e.g. pushed from the storage drive pool such as storage drive pool module . Alternatively a monitoring module such as spare storage monitoring module may request e.g. pull poll etc. status checks or issue other commands to the storage drive pool or individual storage drives.

At block in response to detecting a failed block in the first storage drive the mapping information may be updated to map to one or more spare blocks on a second storage drive instead of the failed block on the first storage drive. In some embodiments the spare block may come from any spare block in the spare storage pool comprising the set of spare blocks available in any or all of the storage drives in the storage drive pool.

At this point it should be noted that spare storage pool management in accordance with the present disclosure as described above may involve the processing of input data and the generation of output data to some extent. This input data processing and output data generation may be implemented in hardware or software. For example specific electronic components may be employed in a spare storage pool management module or similar or related circuitry for implementing the functions associated with spare storage pool management in accordance with the present disclosure as described above. Alternatively one or more processors operating in accordance with instructions may implement the functions associated with spare storage pool management in accordance with the present disclosure as described above. If such is the case it is within the scope of the present disclosure that such instructions may be stored on one or more non transitory processor readable storage media e.g. a magnetic disk or other storage medium or transmitted to one or more processors via one or more signals embodied in one or more carrier waves.

The present disclosure is not to be limited in scope by the specific embodiments described herein. Indeed other various embodiments of and modifications to the present disclosure in addition to those described herein will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art from the foregoing description and accompanying drawings. Thus such other embodiments and modifications are intended to fall within the scope of the present disclosure. Further although the present disclosure has been described herein in the context of at least one particular implementation in at least one particular environment for at least one particular purpose those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that its usefulness is not limited thereto and that the present disclosure may be beneficially implemented in any number of environments for any number of purposes. Accordingly the claims set forth below should be construed in view of the full breadth and spirit of the present disclosure as described herein.

