---

title: High mobility, thin film transistors using semiconductor/insulator transition-metal dichalcogenide based interfaces
abstract: Electronic devices and methods of forming an electronic device are disclosed herein. An electronic device may include a first 2D atomic crystal layer; a second 2D atomic crystal layer disposed atop the first 2D atomic crystal layer; and an interface comprising van-der-Waals bonds between the first 2D atomic crystal layer and the second 2D atomic crystal layer. A method of forming an electronic device may include depositing a first 2D atomic crystal layer; and depositing a second 2D atomic crystal layer atop the first 2D atomic crystal layer; wherein an interface is formed between the first 2D atomic crystal layer and the second 2D atomic crystal layer via van-der-Waals bonding.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09190509&OS=09190509&RS=09190509
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 09190509
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130311
---
Governmental Interest The invention described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the U.S. Government without the payment of royalties thereon.

Embodiments of the present invention generally relate to semiconductor devices and more particularly to field effect devices such as thin film transistors and the manufacturer thereof.

Field effect devices such as thin film transistors are an important component in a variety of electronic systems. However the usage of thin film transistors is limited by the use of organic amorphous silicon and mixed oxide thin films in the formation of thin film transistors. The use of such materials results in dangling bonds from for example silicon atoms which can trap charges thereby reducing the density of mobile charge carriers and adversely affecting the performance of the thin film transistors. Specifically a thin film transistor using such materials has a carrier mobility that is too low e.g. less than 10 cm Vs for certain high performance applications.

Therefore the inventors have provided an improved field effect device and method for forming a field effect device.

Embodiments of the present invention relate to an electronic device which may include a first 2D atomic crystal layer a second 2D atomic crystal layer disposed atop the first 2D atomic crystal layer and an interface comprising van der Waals bonds between the first 2D atomic crystal layer and the second 2D atomic crystal layer.

Embodiments of the present invention relate to a method of forming an electronic device which may include depositing a first 2D atomic crystal layer and depositing a second 2D atomic crystal layer atop the first 2D atomic crystal layer wherein an interface is formed between the first 2D atomic crystal layer and the second 2D atomic crystal layer via van der Waals bonding.

Embodiments of the present invention relate to a thin film transistor which may include a substrate a plurality of 2D atomic crystal layers formed atop the substrate wherein the plurality of 2D atomic crystal layers comprise a 2D atomic crystal high k insulator layer formed atop a 2D atomic crystal semiconductor layer an interface between the 2D atomic crystal semiconductor layer and the 2D atomic crystal high k insulator layer wherein the interface comprises van der Waals bonds a source electrode and a drain electrode disposed atop the 2D atomic crystal semiconductor layer in respective source and drain regions of the thin film transistor wherein the source electrode and drain electrode define a channel region disposed between the source and drain regions and a gate electrode disposed atop 2D atomic crystal high k insulator layer.

Embodiments of the present invention relate to a method of forming a thin film transistor which may include depositing a first 2D atomic crystal layer atop a substrate depositing a second 2D atomic crystal layer atop the first 2D atomic crystal layer forming a source electrode and a drain electrode atop the second 2D atomic crystal layer in respective source and drain regions of the thin film transistor wherein the source electrode and drain electrode define a channel region disposed between the source and drain regions depositing a third 2D atomic crystal layer atop the second 2D atomic crystal layer over the channel region and between the source and drain regions wherein an interface between the third 2D atomic crystal layer atop the second 2D atomic crystal layer bonds the third 2D atomic crystal layer to the second 2D atomic crystal layer via van der Waals bonding and depositing a gate electrode atop the third 2D atomic crystal layer.

Embodiments of the present invention include improved semiconductor insulating interface structure formed of 2D atomic crystal layers. Such a structure may be used for example in field effect devices such as thin film transistors. Other embodiments include methods for forming such a structure and in more particularly for forming improved field effect devices such as thin film transistors.

Devices in accordance with embodiments of the present invention advantageously provide one or more of greater carrier mobility lower power consumption due to reduction in leakage current high temperature stability e.g. up to 1 100 C. and lower cost especially compared to crystalline silicon. For instance a 10 20 greater mobility e.g. up to and greater than 500 cm Vs and up to 2 orders of magnitude lower power consumption due to the reduction in leakage current may be realized.

As used herein a 2D atomic crystal layer refers to one or more individual crystalline atomic planes produced either from a bottom up synthesis process e.g. Van der Waals epitaxial growth or extracted cleaved from constituent bulk crystals. In some embodiments an individual crystalline atomic plane may be cleaved from a bulk homogeneous crystal structure or it may be cleaved from a heterogeneous crystal structure synthesized using artificial crystal synthesis techniques that are known to persons skilled in the art. The cleaving process may be done for example by mechanical exfoliation and or chemical exfoliation techniques that are known to persons skilled in the art.

These planes together form a generally two dimensional 2D structure defined in the x and y directions but have a very small depth defined in the z direction relative to its dimensions in the x y plane i.e. D D D . In some embodiments certain 2D atomic crystals for example certain transition metal dichalcogenides described below or boron nitride BN or bismuth selenide BiSe form an electrically insulating structure. In some embodiments certain 2D atomic crystals for example certain transition metal dichalcogenides described below or graphene or magnesium diboride MgB form a semiconducting structure. As used herein a transition metal dichalcogenide has the general formula TX where T is a transition metal and X is a chalcogenide. Examples of electrically insulating transition metal dichalcogenides include but are not limited to hafnium disulfide HfS zirconium disulfide ZrS or the like. Examples of semiconducting transition metal dichalcogenides include but are not limited to molybdenum disulfide MoS tungsten disulfide WS niobium disulfide NbS tantalum disulfide TaS vanadium disulfide VS rhenium disulfide ReS tungsten selenide WSe molybdenum selenide MoSe niobium selenide NbSe or the like. Typically transition metal dichalcogenides having group IV A and VI A transition metals e.g. Mo Hf W exhibit superconducting semiconducting or insulating properties depending on the band gap of the material. The unfilled transition metal d band determines the band gap the dielectric constant and mobility of the transition metal dichalcogenides.

In addition it should be appreciated that the use of the ordinal terms i.e. first second third etc. herein is solely for ease in discussing and referring to similar elements with first being used initially to describe an element and further elements being referred to by the next and subsequent ordinal term e.g. second third etc. as used. Their use should not to be construed as limiting. Indeed the number of similar elements and thus the reference thereto may vary in different embodiments.

Atop the substrate is a first 2D atomic crystal layer . The first 2D atomic crystal layer is an insulator layer disposed between the substrate and a second 2D atomic crystal layer discussed below. The first 2D atomic crystal layer acts as a barrier layer between the substrate and the second 2D atomic crystal layer . In some embodiments the first 2D atomic crystal layer is a high dielectric constant high k insulator layer. In some embodiments the high k insulator layer has a high k value between 10 40 e. In some embodiments the high k insulator layer has a high k value above 40 e. The thickness of the first 2D atomic crystal layer as well as the other 2D atomic crystal layers discussed below can be single layer double layer or triple layer thickness.

In some embodiments the first 2D atomic crystal layer is an electrically insulating transition metal dichalcogenide such as hafnium disulfide HfS or zirconium disulfide ZrS . Hafnium disulfide HfS has a dielectric value of 9 12 . Zirconium disulfide ZrS has a dielectric value of 10 15 . In some embodiments the first 2D atomic crystal layer is an electrical insulator such as boron nitride BN or bismuth selenide BiSe .

A second 2D atomic crystal layer is disposed atop the first 2D atomic crystal layer . The second 2D atomic crystal layer is a semiconductor layer. In some embodiments the second 2D atomic crystal layer is a semiconducting transition metal dichalcogenide such as molybdenum disulfide MoS tungsten disulfide WS niobium disulfide NbS tantalum disulfide TaS vanadium disulfide VS rhenium disulfide ReS tungsten selenide WSe or molybdenum selenide MoSe . In some embodiments the second 2D atomic crystal layer is a semiconductor such as graphene or magnesium diboride MgB or nickel dichloride NiCl or vanadium oxide VO .

A source electrode a drain electrode and a gate structure are disposed atop the second 2D atomic crystal layer . The source electrode and drain electrode are each formed in respective source and drain regions of the thin film transistor . In some embodiments the source electrode and the drain electrode are made of suitable conductive materials such as metals e.g. silver gold copper or aluminum . The source electrode and drain electrode define a channel region disposed between the source and drain regions. The source electrode and drain electrode provide electrical connections to the channel region . The channel region is etched from a portion of the second 2D atomic crystal layer .

The gate structure comprises a third 2D atomic crystal layer and a gate electrode . The third 2D atomic crystal layer is disposed over the channel region between the source and drain regions. The third 2D atomic crystal layer is an insulator layer having a high k value as described above with respect to the first 2D atomic crystal layer . The high k nature of the insulator layer advantageously minimizes charge carrier scattering which can degrade charge carrier mobility. In some embodiments the third 2D atomic crystal layer is an electrically insulating transition metal dichalcogenide such as hafnium disulfide HfS or zirconium disulfide ZrS . In some embodiments the first 2D atomic crystal layer is an electrical insulator such as boron nitride BN or bismuth selenide BiSe . The gate electrode is disposed atop the third 2D atomic crystal layer . In some embodiments the gate electrode is made of metal such as titanium nickel chromium silver gold copper or aluminum.

In some embodiments a van der Waals epitaxial deposition process is used to deposit the third 2D atomic crystal layer atop the second 2D atomic crystal layer resulting in an interface between the third 2D atomic crystal layer and the second 2D atomic crystal layer . The interface between the two atomic crystal layers comprises van der Waals forces bonding the two atomic crystal layers together.

As depicted in van der Waals forces at the interface between the two atomic crystal layers result in the absence or substantial absence of dangling chemical bonds between the two atomic crystal layers . The absence of dangling bonds advantageously eliminates or substantially eliminates carrier charges becoming trapped by dangling bonds at the interface of the two atomic crystal layers thereby enabling the thin film transistor to have higher charge carrier mobility.

The method begins at where the first 2D atomic crystal layer is deposited atop the substrate as depicted in . Next at the second 2D atomic crystal layer is deposited atop the first 2D atomic crystal layer as depicted in . In some embodiments the first 2D atomic crystal layer and the second 2D atomic crystal layer are deposited using a van der Waals epitaxial deposition process.

Next at a source electrode and a drain electrode are formed atop the second 2D atomic crystal layer in respective source and drain regions of the thin film transistor as depicted in . The source electrode and drain electrode define a channel region disposed between the source electrode and drain regions.

Next at a third 2D atomic crystal layer is deposited atop the second 2D atomic crystal layer as depicted in . In some embodiments the third 2D atomic crystal layer is also deposited using a van der Waals epitaxial deposition process. The van der Waals epitaxial deposition process forms an interface between the third 2D atomic crystal layer and the second 2D atomic crystal layer . The interface comprises van der Waals forces bonding the third 2D atomic crystal layer to the second 2D atomic crystal layer . The van der Waals forces at the interface result in the absence or substantial absence of dangling chemical bonds between the two atomic crystal layers which advantageously eliminates or substantially eliminates the trapping of carrier charges by the dangling bonds thereby enabling the thin film transistor to have higher charge carrier mobility. Next at a gate electrode is deposited atop the third 2D atomic crystal layer as depicted in .

While the foregoing is directed to embodiments of the present invention other and further embodiments of the invention may be devised without departing from the basic scope thereof.

