---

title: Interactive barcodes
abstract: A centralized barcode system is described. The centralized barcode system includes a barcode generation system configured to create a customized barcode by creating a new barcode or enhancing an existing barcode.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09047385&OS=09047385&RS=09047385
owner: Delago Technology Holdings, LLC
number: 09047385
owner_city: Chicago
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131004
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 709 451 filed Oct. 4 2012 the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The present disclosure relates to identification systems and methods and more particularly to interactive barcodes.

Codes such as barcodes are used in a variety of industrial applications and increasingly by consumers. Codes are a daily part of life for companies to track products effectively across supply chains or distribute product specific information. A change has taken place in the market whereby consumers are beginning to more widely adopt the usage of codes in particular two dimensional 2 D codes because the proliferation of mobile devices. Scanners downloaded to mobile devices particularly smart phones can provide a user with the ability decipher codes quickly and efficiently. The code provides instant access to information by linking the physical world with the digital world.

Today codes are used to re direct users to uniform resource locators URLs or store modest amounts of information such as emails mobile numbers and profile identifiers IDs . The browser supports uniform resource identifier URI redirection which allows 2 D codes to send metadata to existing applications on a device.

While codes are becoming more prolific the chances that a consumer will engage with a website at the time of scanning is still limited.

The embodiments described herein relate to one dimensional 1 D barcodes e.g. ISBN UPC two dimensional 2 D codes three dimensional 3 D codes or NFC Near Field Communication . Regarding 2 D codes Denso Wave Incorporated created a type of matrix barcode 2 D barcode called Quick Response Code abbreviated QR Code barcode. QR Code is a registered trademark of Denso Wave Incorporated within the United States Japan Australia and Europe. The barcode includes black modules square dots arranged in a square pattern on a white background. The information encoded can be made up of four standardized kinds also referred to as modes of data including numeric alphanumeric byte binary Kanji or through supported extensions virtually any kind of data. Unlike the 1 D barcode that was designed to be mechanically scanned by a narrow beam of light the 2 D barcode such as the QR Code is detected as a 2 D digital image by a semiconductor image sensor and is then digitally analyzed by a programmed processor. The processor locates the three distinctive squares at the corners of the image and normalizes image size orientation and angle of viewing with the aid of a smaller square near the fourth corner. The small dots are then converted to binary numbers and validity checked with an error correcting code. There are several standards in documents covering the physical encoding of the QR Codes barcodes. The embodiments described herein focus on 2 D barcodes such as the QR Codes barcodes however in other embodiments other types of barcodes capable of storing text greater than 10 characters in length may be used as would be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art having the benefit of this disclosure. In particular the embodiments described herein relate to 2 D barcodes and the rendering of information and functionality associated with these barcodes. For ease of description the term barcode is used to refer to these various types of codes as described above. The embodiments described herein aggregates unique functionality into the barcodes for commercial and consumer usage. The embodiments described herein enable the transformation of barcodes into interactive information nodes with optional extensions for asynchronous and synchronous communication security protection location tracking cloud storage and social networking.

While barcodes are becoming more prolific the chance that a consumer will engage with a website at the time of scanning may be limited. The embodiments described herein intend to create a more unique user experience by significantly broadening the functionality and customization of barcodes and introducing social elements into the creation and usage of such barcodes.

The embodiments described herein propose an open standard for storing information on barcodes. The proposed protocol governs the mechanism of embedding information on barcodes which may act as metadata for information stored on a server or a remote computing system commonly referred to the cloud computing or to lookup offline content and additional functionality and filtering. For example this might include checking for presence of communication features user interaction access control security protected content location tracking and file folders. The proposed protocol also governs the steps involved in syncing all the information intended for cloud storage providing additional functionality configuration data with the server or cloud when metadata for embedding on the barcode is generated offline such as when the device embedding metadata on the barcode is without direct access to the server or cloud.

The embodiments described herein create a customizable data encoded barcode which allows users a unique method to communicate in a synchronous fashion. Communication may be based on a variety of formats including but not limited to text video voice and pictures.

The remote computing system may be one or more machines including one or more server computers gateways or other computing systems including client machines such as a desktop computer laptop computer server cellular phone personal digital assistant PDA etc. and server machines including gateways server workstations etc. The remote computing system can be configured to operate in a server client environment or in a cloud computing system. Cloud computing systems are a collection of computing resources such as hardware and software to provide a service over a network such as the Internet. The client computing system may be one or more machines including a desktop computer laptop computer server smart phone cellular phone personal digital assistant PDA etc. The client computing system may also be a server machine as would be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art having the benefit of this disclosure. The remote computing system interacts with the client computing system by exchanging messages via standard protocols e.g. FTP HTTP TCP UDP ICMP. The remote computing system may be connected to one or more data stores such as a centralized barcode database . The data stores can be one or more centralized data repositories that store application data system data configuration data or the like. The data stores may be local or remote data stores and may be single or multiple data structures databases repositories files etc. residing on one or more mass storage devices such as magnetic or optical storage based disks tapes or hard drives. The centralized barcode database can be a persistent storage that is capable of storing data. A persistent storage unit can be a local storage unit or a remote storage unit. Persistent storage units can be a magnetic storage unit optical storage unit solid state storage unit electronic storage units main memory or similar storage unit. Persistent storage units can be a monolithic device or a distributed set of devices. A set as used herein refers to any positive whole number of items. The centralized barcode database can be internal to a mobile device or external to a mobile device and accessible by the mobile device via a network. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art in some implementations centralized barcode database may be a network attached file server or a cloud based file server while in other implementations centralized barcode database might be some other type of persistent storage such as an object oriented database a relational database and so forth.

The remote computing system may provide a remote console a local console or both for allowing a user such as a system administrator to access and manage the centralized barcode system over a secure or non secure channel. The remote computing system can also provide a local console such as a command line interface CLI or a graphical user interface GUI for the centralized barcode system .

The barcode generation system can generate a barcode by creating a new barcode or copying an existing barcode and adding features to the existing barcode. For example the barcode generation system can link a cloud based barcode to a physical barcode. By linking the cloud based barcode to the physical barcode the barcode generation system can create a two way communication mechanism through features that are supported by the centralized system. Each barcode created or copied on the platform e.g. on the server or cloud or on the device either is owned by a registered user on the platform or is published on the platform if a barcode was cloned from an existing barcode. The barcode generation system can manage ownership of the barcodes. Ownership provides a the user an ability to edit the contents of the barcode and monitor and regulate activity associated with the barcode. Owners can also permit others to access or edit the barcode. These permissions can be given at the time of barcode creation or at any later time.

The centralized barcode system may be a network hosted system divided into three components. The first component can be a server that provides an interface with external devices and other internal components. The second component can be a permission and preprocessing module which authenticates user access for a particular barcode and preprocess any data required before transferring the same to the third component. The third component can be a database server which can store data associated with a barcode in the data store . The centralized barcode system can catalogue barcodes either produced by barcode generation system as described herein or produced by an external barcode generator. Barcode scanners may allow for the identification of barcodes produced by either platform. The centralized barcode system can identify duplicate or matching codes on the centralized barcode system e.g. in the database and enable the communication feature and other features accordingly as described herein. In other embodiments the centralized barcode system may include more or less components than those described.

To generate a barcode the barcode generation system can encode information about an item of interest to form the barcode. The information can include a URL that directs a user to a webpage after scanning the barcode. The barcode generation system can identify a subject and basic information about the subject. The barcode generation system can provide a user interface to allow users to input the subject and basic information about the subject. The information about the subject of the barcode can include a unique number a title or an embedded URL. The barcode generation system can encode the subject and the information about the subject into a barcode. In implementations metadata is embedded in the barcode. For example to generate a barcode about a fitness product a user can input information about the product such as a name of the product a picture a URL of a webpage that describes the product etc. When generating a barcode the barcode generation system can also identify and embed supplemental information about an existing barcode. The supplemental information can include additional information about the item of interest various features a unique ID configuration settings and flags and additional data into a barcode. The barcode generation system can receive the supplemental information from a user such as via a user interface or from another system or module. When receiving the supplemental information from a user the barcode generation system can present different fields in a user interface to receive the supplemental information. When receiving the supplemental information from another system or module the barcode generation system can identify the existing information e.g. product title or unique barcode about the subject of the barcode. Using this information the barcode generation system can query a database e.g. search the Internet for supplemental information about the product title or unique barcode. The barcode generation system can encode the supplemental information as part of the barcode. In some implementations each of the fields is editable. In other implementations some of the fields are editable. Example supplemental information include title text settings flags data storage additional data storage group communication public broadcast or dialogue location information security features and any other information that relates to the item of interest which are described further in conjunction with . When presented in a browser or an application in conjunction with the barcode each supplemental information can be selectable and if selected may be either embedded on the barcode or can be editable in the future. Any of the supplemental information can contain a maximum number or minimum number of characters. The number of characters can be fixed editable or programmable. When presented as fields supplemental information can include any number of the same supplemental information fields. For example supplemental information can include two data storage fields a data storage field and an additional data storage field.

Once a barcode is generated the barcode generation system can save a database record for each barcode along with each feature either on the barcode or in the cloud depending on the initial settings. To the extent a feature is editable in the future as designated by a setting in the barcode generation system the feature can be saved in the cloud whereas non editable features can be saved in the barcode as permanent metadata. Additionally the user without an active Internet connection may create a barcode which then becomes synchronized with a unique ID fetched from a reserved pool using the barcode generation system . The pool of unique IDs is saved locally on device for offline usage when the user logins for the first time on the device and these unique IDs correspond to reserved entries on the centralized barcode database . This allows a user to generate a barcode with the feature set e.g. supplemental information they desire without an active internet connection. Information captured offline is stored locally on the device in which the barcode generation system executes such as a mobile device. Additionally since a new barcode can be generated using a single unique ID new barcode can be generated offline. Finally when online all offline information is synchronized to the server or cloud at the given unique ID.

In implementations the barcode generation system can provide additional functionality such as copying e.g. cloning sharing scanning barcodes etc. The copying feature of the barcode generation system can enable a user to create a custom barcode from a non platform generated barcode e.g. not generated by the barcode generation system or a platform generated barcode. By copying an existing barcode either platform created or generic a user can create or embed the same or different functionality from the original barcode. The copied barcode can be shared distinctly and separately from the original barcode. In some implementations the barcode generation system can share barcodes created or copied on the platform to the registered users directly or can be searched if the created cloned barcode is made public.

In some implementations the network architecture includes a barcode scanner. For example a user can print a barcode created or copied on the barcode generation system and the user or other users can scan printed barcode using any barcode scanner reader to view the underlying information along with additional features.

In implementations the barcode generation system can be used for viewing of information associated with the barcodes. User can access any of the barcodes created or copied on the platform via a third party application such as a mobile application an application provided as part of the centralized barcode system referred to proprietary mobile app or a browser or browser plug in.

In implementations a 3party mobile application can include a barcode scanner. Using the scanner the 3party mobile application can decode the barcode to identify a URL. The URL can identify an address of a webpage. Once the URL is detected a browser can open. The browser can render the webpage identified by the URL.

In implementations a barcode app can include a barcode scanner. Using the scanner the barcode app can decode the barcode to identify a barcode. In other implementations barcodes can be accessed via accessing the barcodes directly from a user account or using search functionality. The app or a browser can render the barcode as per the features present on barcode.

In implementations the barcode generation system can be used in connection with pre printed e.g. existing barcodes. Pre printed barcode may be barcodes with a unique ID embedded in the barcode. In some implementations a user who acquires the pre printed barcode and scans it into the barcode generation system becomes the new owner and is assigned a unique ID for their usage. In other implementations a true owner of the subject of the barcode is given control of the unique ID regardless of who scans in the pre printed barcode. Three types of pre printed barcodes can be available pre printed editable barcodes pre printed fully editable barcodes and pre printed generic barcodes.

In implementations barcodes are editable. A user can edit any information associated with the barcode along with content. The user can add remove edit or any combination thereof any of the features information. In other implementations the user can link a pre printed generic barcode to any barcodes created on the barcode generation system via a mobile app or a browser if the user has access permission to the barcode e.g. when the communication setting of the barcode is public or dialogue . Other users can be redirected to the linked barcode whenever the other use scans the generic barcode.

Broadcast Code Use Case A consumer product company places a barcode generated by the barcode generation system on a product brochure. A user purchases the product and scans the barcode on either barcode app or a third party scanner app . The company is now directly connected with the consumer and can send them new offers product updates or simply information relating to the product or the company. The user can receive these updates in an asynchronous fashion and can launch the company s website from a barcode page. The company s website can be rendered when the company s barcode is selected from the users list of saved codes.

Dialogue Use Case A company places a barcode at a point of purchase to gather feedback on a retail clerk. A consumer scans the code. The centralized barcode system renders the page allowing for individuals to leave comments. The company may respond to the comments or broadcast messages.

Synchronous Communication Use Case A greeting card company offers pre printed barcodes at the point of purchase. A consumer purchases a greeting card and is given a barcode stamp. The purchaser places the stamp on the back of the greeting card and scans the barcode. The scanned barcode brings the user to the centralized barcode system which allows them to post a message either a video audio message or text message. The code can then be scanned by the recipient of the card. Scanning the barcode would populate the barcode page and the video or other media could then be viewed by the recipient.

Synchronous Communication with Security Use Case A A teacher appends a barcode generated by the barcode generation system to the top of a homework assignment. The homework gets distributed to students. The students scan the barcode and put in the security code that the teacher distributed. Students can post questions comments and observations which can be seen by the entire class and commented on by the class or by the teacher via the centralized barcode system . Updates to the homework assignment can further be pushed to the class from the teacher through the centralized barcode system .

Synchronous Communication with Security Use Case B An individual within a company places a platform generated barcode on a draft document. Individual recipients of the document can scan the code and enter their security password. The original distributor of the document can receive comments from those working on the document and can send the updated document through the centralized barcode system . The ability to post a new document eliminates the need to email the document around to other co workers.

Third Party Barcode A user scans a barcode from an advertisement in a magazine. The barcode is scanned with the barcode app . Given the third party nature of the code anyone can scan the barcode and post comments questions reviews in text audio or video formats. Anyone using the barcode app will be able to view all comments left by others who have scanned the barcode.

Referring to method begins at block with processing logic identifying a barcode on a barcode generation system such as the barcode generation system of . In implementations to identify the barcode the processing logic can create a new barcode. In other implementations identifying the barcode includes copying an existing barcode with the option to add supplemental information to the existing barcode. In other implementations identifying the barcode includes identifying a unique identifier associated with the item of interest and associating the supplemental information and the first information with the unique identifier. The processing logic can receive input from a user to create a new barcode or copy an existing barcode. Once the barcode is identified at block the processing logic can identify certain features for the barcode such as editable information security settings communication settings and an ability for users to add supplemental information to the barcode. The processing logic can receive these features from a user. When the processing logic has network access at block the enabled features can be synchronized with centralized a barcode system at block which then returns a new unique ID that identifies the barcode at block . In implementations when the processing logic does not have network access e.g. not connected to the internet offline at block the processing logic can fetch a barcode ID from pool of unique IDs at block and associate the enabled features with the unique ID at block . For example when a user device such as mobile device is not connected to the internet the processing logic can fetch a barcode ID that has been associated with the user device or associated directly with a user of the device. When the processing logic later becomes connected to the network the enabled features and the barcode ID is synced with a centralized system at block .

In some implementations the scanned barcode can already have a barcode ID such as when it has previously been scanned. In some implementations another barcode ID can be associated with the barcode resulting in two different barcode ID s for the same source barcode. In other implementations the scanned barcode can be combined with the existing barcode ID. The information supplemental information and enabled features can be combined and or synchronized. When conflicting information supplemental information and enabled features exists for a particular barcode a conflict analysis can be performed to determine which data to use. Any type of analysis can be performed using any criteria such as how long the barcode ID has existed whether there is a commercial owner of the barcode or item of interest associated with the barcode whether a particular user that edited or added the supplemental information had a particular permission or platform rank etc.

Once the processing logic identifies the Unique ID the processing logic generates the data to be embedded on the barcode at block . Enabled features for example can be represented by flags which can be embedded on barcode permanently depending on whether selection of features itself is editable in future or not. If editable then only unique ID is embedded on the barcode otherwise the embedded data contains the feature flags.

Next at block the processing logic identifies if any of the selected features are editable in future or non editable. If the selected features are non editable then the processing logic embeds the selected features the unique ID and any configuration data associated with selected features in the barcode at block . A barcode could have a variety of features embedded into the same code with different features being editable or non editable depending on the barcode creator s preference. As such a single barcode could have a blend of features that may be embedded permanently non editable and non permanently editable . The barcode creator s selection of non editable features can trigger flags that are embedded into the barcode to identify which features are present. The features as represented by the flags may have additional information and rules that are associated with them that are stored on the centralized barcode system. If the selected features are editable then the processing logic embeds the unique ID in the barcode at block which points a later user to an interface for viewing and editing the editable features.

In implementations when generating the barcode the processing logic can save the barcode data in a URL friendly format and can combine it URL. In these implementations data intended to be embedded on the barcode is converted into a URL friendly format e.g. URL encoding percent encoding is applied for all ASCII special characters etc. and the result is finally prepended or appended to the URL of centralized barcode server. The result is a URL that points to a web browser version of the barcode. For example the resulting URL with prepended encoded data can be barcode123.example.com and a resulting URL with appended encoded data can be example.com barcode123. 

The rendering of the barcode can take place on any device such as on an app through a web browser interface or through a third party scanner app as described herein.

Referring to the method begins at block with the processing logic generating data to be embedded on the barcode based on users choice of features from list of features available as described herein. In implementations all data can initially be generated in JSON format which is widely supported on all platforms. Then the JSON format is converted into a URL friendly format by URL encoding approach and URL of centralized system is prepended to the data. The result is a URL which points at the barcode information on centralized system.

At block the processing logic identifies features to enable which can be based on user input. Example features include a title description data storage a communication setting and a security setting. When these features are represented by flags the flags can be t d c and s respectively.

At block the processing logic selects a configuration for each feature. For example the communication setting can be set to public broadcast or dialogue. For the public communication setting the JSON configuration can be PUBLIC.PUBLIC. The description for example can be for an audio file and the JSON configuration can be AUDIO.FILE. The title can be a text based title of the subject of the barcode such as Sample Barcode. 

At block the processing logic fetches an ID for the barcode to be generated. In implementations the processing logic has network access and receives the barcode ID from a server. In other implementations processing logic is offline and fetches a local ID that can later be synchronized with a server when the processing logic is online.

At block the processing logic sets future configuration options for the enabled features. For example additional features can be enabled or disabled in the future. The processing logic can set this configuration using such as with a code i 1234. The processing logic can also enable editing of the enable features such as the communication description and title features in the future. For example the description feature is editable using the code i 1234 s c.d.t s  ty PUBLIC.PUBLIC s t Sample Barcode . The processing logic can also indicate statically encoded data for all features such as in the code i 1234 s c.d.t . s c ty PUBLIC.PUBLIC s d ty AUDIO.FILE s t Sample Barcode .

At block the processing logic embeds the data on a barcode such as on a URL associated with a barcode system. For example the barcode can be encoded as www.example.com barcode i 1234 s c.d.t s c ty PUBLIC.PUBLIC s t Sample Barcode . The encoded barcode can be encoded in a URL friendly format such as example.com barcode 7B 3Fi 3F 3A 3F1234 2C 3Fs 3F 3A 3Fc.d.t 3F 2C 3Fs c 3F 3A 7B 3Fty 3F 3A 3FPUBLIC.PUBLIC 3F 7D 2C 3Fs t 3F 3A 3FSample Barcode 3F 7D. In another implementation the data can be saved as it is such as i 1234 s c.d.t s c ty PUBLIC.PUBLIC s t Sample Barcode y example.com barcode .

Referring to method begins at block when processing logic identifies a barcode which can be a previously generated barcode. Identifying the barcode can also include generating the barcode by copying an existing barcode or by creating a new barcode. The barcode can be associated with an item of interest such as a product good service person entity corporation etc. At block the processing logic decodes the barcode to reveal the item of interest. At block the processing logic matches the barcode with a database record. The database record can be a local record or a remote record such as a record stored in a remote database.

At block the processing logic presents via a graphical interface an input mechanism to receive supplementation information regarding the item of interest that is not encoded in the barcode and at block the processing logic receives supplemental information of the item of interest such as from an end user. The first information and the supplemental information can include at least one of a title text a setting a group a file a photo a communication a video audio a location a social component a comment or a security setting. The supplemental information can be information that is has not been associated with the item of interest. For example the first information of an existing barcode can be a title of a movie and the supplementary information can be a total playback length.

At block the processing logic can store the supplemental information with the database record. At block the processing logic can present via the graphical interface the first information and the supplemental information. In implementations the processing logic transmits the supplemental information associated with the database record to a server at block .

In some implementations the processing logic can generate a second barcode that comprises the database record the first information and the supplemental information.

In implementations the processing logic can receive a request to edit at least a portion of the first information or the supplemental information. The processing logic can then modify the first information or the supplemental information in the database record. In implementations the processing logic permits modifications to the first information or the supplemental information according to enabled features for the barcode. For example when a barcode is public it can be modified amended supplemented etc.

In implementations the processing logic can encode the supplemental information in a Uniform Resource Locator URL friendly format such that the encoded supplemental information can be added to an existing URL to create a new URL that when accessed causes the supplemental information to be presented such as along with or in the place of the first information of the item of interest. The encoded supplemental information can be prepended or appended to the existing URL to create the new URL. In implementations when processing logic presents the first information and the supplemental information it can cause an application to render the first information and the supplemental information. The rendering of the first information and the supplemental information can be based on the new URL.

Referring to method begins at block when processing logic identifies a barcode that is associated with an item of interest. At block the processing logic determines whether it has access to a network e.g. a LAN WAN Internet etc. . If the processing logic has network access it can proceed to block which begins at block of . If the processing logic does not have network access it can proceed to block where it decodes the barcode to reveal the item of interest. At block the processing logic identifies the database record of the barcode from a local storage. The local storage can include at least a portion of the first information. In some implementations the at least a portion of the first information includes an amount of data that minimizes its storage footprint on a mobile device. In implementations the database record can include a unique identifier associated with the item of interest.

At block the processing logic presents the at least a portion of the first information from the local storage such as via a user interface. At block the processing logic can receive supplemental information of the item of interest from a source. The source can be a user or can be from an electronic data source. At block the processing logic can associate the supplemental information with a database record. In implementations the processing logic can associate the supplemental information and the first information with a unique identifier such as the unique identifier optionally that the processing logic optionally identified in block . At block the processing logic can present via an interface the first information and the supplemental information.

At block the processing logic can determine whether it has network access. The processing logic can perform block at any time. If the processing logic does not have network access it can continue to perform block . In an example the processing logic periodically checks for network access. Once the processing logic determines that it has network access it can synchronize the supplemental information and the database record at a server.

In implementations the processing logic can detect a connectivity characteristic. The connectivity characteristic can be at least one of an amount of available bandwidth an amount of total bandwidth or a detected network speed. The processing logic can present the first information and the supplemental information by selectively presenting the first information and the supplemental information according to the connectivity characteristic. For example when a limited amount of bandwidth is available the processing logic can present a video in a lower resolution. In another example when detected network speed is below a threshold amount the processing logic can present some of the supplemental information and omit other supplemental information until the detected network speed is above a threshold amount.

GUI that allows a user to select or enable features from the list of supported features of the barcode generation system . When generating a barcode the barcode generation system can also define interaction settings and associate the interaction settings with the barcode. The interaction settings can dictate how recipients may view or interact with the barcode. The interaction settings can include communication settings and security settings. When creating or editing a barcode the GUI can permit a user to select data from one or more data sources . Data sources can include a local or remote video or image sensor a barcode scanner a data storage or a text based source such as an email URL etc. In an example a user can select a photo or video to associate with a barcode from a data source . The barcode generation system can store the features settings and configurations instantaneously in the cloud and can generate a unique ID embedded within the barcode. If available features are stored instantaneously else the IDs are saved locally on the device for offline usage as described herein. Each generated barcode can be identified by a unique ID and the database uses the unique ID to coordinate a data storage such as a relational database of information. The unique ID can be how components of architecture identify which barcode is being matched with users anywhere and the barcodes and information that would get synchronized on a user s different access points. Examples of data that can be collected by the GUI are described below.

Title text can be general descriptive information of a subject of a barcode e.g. product service offering that is stored and displayed in an interface. The text title

A data storage field can be used to store any type of information based on a content type. For example when the content type is a video the data storage field can be information specific to videos. Information can be stored as text or as a file. Information can be offline or present on the cloud.

A communication setting enables a user to define precisely how they wish recipients to interact with the barcode or how they wish to interact with the recipient of a barcode. The communication setting establishes synchronous or asynchronous features associated with the barcode. For example communication settings can include public broadcast and dialogue. When the public setting is enabled the barcode generation system can allow users to edit the information of supplemental information of a barcode. The information may be in the form of text video pictures or audio. Anything that is edited or added to a public barcode by any user can be displayed under the barcode for viewing universally. The public setting does not allow the individual who created the barcode to regulate the dialogue.

With the broadcast setting selected the barcode generation system allows barcode creators e.g. someone who uses the barcode generation system to create a barcode to send information in an asynchronous fashion to a recipient of a barcode. Only information distributed by the barcode creator can be visible to other recipients. This setting may be configured to be restrictive whereas the pubic and dialogue settings may give more access to more users. For example the broadcast feature could be used by a government agency to broadcast information without necessarily eliciting responses.

The dialog setting enables the creator of the barcode to send information in an asynchronous fashion and allows users to respond or post information under a barcode using the barcode generation system . The dialogue setting does not allow users to see comments posted except those that were posted by themselves or the creator of the barcode. Only the dialogue between the owner of the barcode and the recipient can be viewable.

Security settings allow barcode creators to restrict access to barcodes generated on the barcode generation system . For example the barcode generation system can provide different security options for the barcode creators including private and passcode protected. To the extent the barcode creator chooses private only the individual who created the barcode e.g. an account associated with the barcode creator has access the barcode and use the other features such as adding supplemental information to the barcode. A barcode creator may still share a private barcode but only specifically authorized individuals can view that barcode. The barcode creator may also password protect a barcode. A password protected barcode must be shared specifically with identified individuals. After the sharing of a password protected barcode any user can enter the passcode to gain access.

A group setting can be used to enable grouping various barcodes together such as under one commonality e.g. tag . The group setting allows users to organize similar barcodes for ease of display and access such as by using tags. Group settings allow users to create groups or append a new barcode to an existing group. For example a group of barcodes can be grouped under a common theme e.g. healthy foods a common group of people e.g. cyclists or under a commercial group e.g. products sold by a particular company .

The barcode scanner can be part of an app such as app or 3party app of . The app can display the information and supplemental information through an interface. The 3party app may not have direct access to the supplemental information so it can use APIs to retrieve and display all of the features and information as the app . A web interface can also be used to present information and supplemental information related to a barcode. In implementations a user can have an account and scanned barcode are synchronized among devices that user associates with the account. For example when a user scans a barcode using a mobile device the user can later view the scanned barcode using a desktop computer after logging into her account. When the barcode scanner scans a barcode an embedded URL can redirect to an interface of the system on a device or the web. When using the app the app can natively renders the barcode information and supplemental information through an integrated interface. When using a 3party app it can re direct the user to a centralized barcode system e.g. the centralized barcode system of based on the URL which then can renders the barcode information and supplemental information. In implementations non native apps may offer limited capability while a native app can support all features e.g. audio recording is only supported by the app .

When scanning a barcode a barcode scanner e.g. a mobile device can be online or offline. When the barcode scanner is offline it can present an offline GUI via a display. The offline GUI can present information related to the barcode and other information . When the barcode scanner is offline it may not have access to all of the available information related to the barcode . Thus when in offline mode information can be limited.

When the barcode scanner is online it can present an online GUI via a display. The online GUI can present information related to the barcode and other information . When the barcode scanner is online it may have access to all of the available information related to the barcode . Thus when in online mode information can be more detailed than information when in offline mode. In implementations other features can be available when the barcode scanner is online. For example an online barcode scanner can include a geo location component that can track a location of the barcode scanner . In implementations the geo location component can present geo location of the barcode scanner via online GUI .

The example computing system includes a processing device a main memory e.g. read only memory ROM flash memory dynamic random access memory DRAM such as synchronous DRAM SDRAM etc. a static memory e.g. flash memory static random access memory SRAM etc. and a data storage device each of which communicate with each other via a bus .

Processing device represents one or more general purpose processing devices such as a microprocessor central processing unit or the like. More particularly the processing device may be a complex instruction set computing CISC microprocessor reduced instruction set computing RISC microprocessor very long instruction word VLIW microprocessor or a processor implementing other instruction sets or processors implementing a combination of instruction sets. The processing device may also be one or more special purpose processing devices such as an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA a digital signal processor DSP network processor or the like. The processing device is configured to execute the processing logic e.g. barcode generation or modification instructions for performing the operations and steps discussed herein.

The computing system may further include a network interface device . The computing system also may include a video display unit e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD or a cathode ray tube CRT an alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard a cursor control device e.g. a mouse and a signal generation device e.g. a speaker .

The data storage device may include a computer readable storage medium on which is stored one or more sets of instructions e.g. barcode generation or modification instructions embodying any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The barcode generation or modification instructions may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory and or within the processing device during execution thereof by the computing system the main memory and the processing device also constituting computer readable storage media. The barcode generation may further be transmitted or received over a network via the network interface device .

While the computer readable storage medium is shown in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term computer readable storage medium should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more sets of instructions. The term computer readable storage medium shall also be taken to include any medium that is capable of storing a set of instructions for execution by the machine and that causes the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present embodiments. The term computer readable storage medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories optical media magnetic media or other types of mediums for storing the instructions.

The barcode generation or modification module components and other features described herein for example in relation to can be implemented as discrete hardware components or integrated in the functionality of hardware components such as ASICS FPGAs DSPs or similar devices. The barcode generation or modification module may implement operations of barcode generation or modification as described herein with respect to . In addition the barcode generation or modification module can be implemented as firmware or functional circuitry within hardware devices. Further the barcode generation or modification module can be implemented in any combination hardware devices and software components.

In the preceding description numerous details are set forth. It will be apparent however to one of ordinary skill in the art having the benefit of this disclosure that embodiments of the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. In some instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form rather than in detail in order to avoid obscuring the embodiments of the present invention.

Some portions of the detailed description are presented in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on data bits within a computer memory. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are the means used by those skilled in the data processing arts to most effectively convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. An algorithm is here and generally conceived to be a self consistent sequence of steps leading to a desired result. The steps are those requiring physical manipulations of physical quantities. Usually though not necessarily these quantities take the form of electrical or magnetic signals capable of being stored transferred combined compared and otherwise manipulated. It has proven convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to these signals as bits values elements symbols characters terms numbers or the like.

It should be borne in mind however that all of these and similar terms are to be associated with the appropriate physical quantities and are merely convenient labels applied to these quantities. Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the following discussion it is appreciated that throughout the description discussions utilizing terms such as receiving generating communicating capturing executing defining specifying creating recreating processing providing computing calculating determining displaying detecting sending receiving or the like refer to the actions and processes of a computing system or similar electronic computing systems that manipulates and transforms data represented as physical e.g. electronic quantities within the computing system s registers and memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the computing system memories or registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices.

Embodiments of the present invention also relate to an apparatus for performing the operations herein. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purposes or it may comprise a general purpose computing system specifically programmed by a computer program stored in the computing system. Such a computer program may be stored in a computer readable storage medium such as but not limited to any type of disk including optical disks CD ROMs and magnetic optical disks read only memories ROMs random access memories RAMs EPROMs EEPROMs magnetic or optical cards or any type of media suitable for storing electronic instructions.

It is to be understood that the above description is intended to be illustrative and not restrictive. Many other embodiments will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reading and understanding the above description. Although the present invention has been described with reference to specific example embodiments it will be recognized that the invention is not limited to the embodiments described but can be practiced with modification and alteration within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative sense rather than a restrictive sense. The scope of the invention should therefore be determined with reference to the appended claims along with the full scope of equivalents to which such claims are entitled.

