---

title: File-attendant messaging
abstract: In response to detecting data file creation/revision in a first computing device, one or more other computing devices in which the data file creation/revision is to be synchronized are identified and a user of the first computing device is prompted to specify a message to be communicated to the one or more other computing devices in association with the data file creation/revision. The message specified by the user of the first computing device is received and communicated to the one or more other computing devices together with information that enables the data file creation/revision to be synchronized within the one or more other computing devices.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09237119&OS=09237119&RS=09237119
owner: Green Room Networks, Inc.
number: 09237119
owner_city: San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130717
---
The disclosure herein relates to communications in resource sharing systems and more particularly to collaborative messaging between users with respect to files or other shared resources.

Increasing employee mobility and rising capabilities of end user systems have spawned a proliferating number of Internet based cloud storage systems such as Dropbox Google Drive iCloud and Microsoft SkyDrive to name a few. Generally speaking such storage systems operate as massive file synchronization schemes detecting changes in one instance of a cloud based file and propagating those changes automatically to all other instances of that file thus ensuring that all users have access to the latest version of the file.

Despite the collaborative advantages of cloud based storage systems the manner of user communications with respect to newly created or revised files remains largely unchanged. E mail threads phone messages and text messages abound as users communicate with one another regarding changes or creation of files of interest. Indeed when faced with determining the status of a file or actions required many users first resort to an e mail search in an effort to extract the various messages relating to a given file or set of files from a morass of electronic communications. Voicemail messages and text messages are even more problematic often being long since deleted by the time needed to guide user decisions or actions.

In various embodiments disclosed herein a user in a file sharing system is prompted to associated one or more messages with a shared file with any such messages being conveyed to each other user of the shared file in conjunction with file synchronization communications. That is recognizing that a fundamental action in a file sharing system is the automatic conveyance of file revisions and file creation actions needed to maintain synchronized instances of a shared file across a network of users it follows that a natural way to communicate messages with respect to those revision creation actions is to attach or associate messages to files messages that appear for example as pop up notifications in a desktop application browser or smartphone application. This is a very different way of looking at collaboration that lines up with the way that users interact with each other and shared data to complete every day tasks. The result is an intuitive natural workflow that yields a far superior user experience in comparison with the more conventional approach of attaching files to messages sending text messages etc.

In one embodiment a user of a file attendant messaging system is prompted via a browser interface for example to identify their account within a file sharing system. Upon doing so the messaging system identifies the user s shared folders and prompts the user to choose which of those folders they would like to discuss with others i.e. for which file attendant messaging is to be enabled thus effecting a messaging enabled folder . After the user chooses a folder to discuss and subsequently saves a file or file revision to that messaging enabled folder the messaging system will prompt the user as shown for example in e.g. in a pop up notification prompt such as a Growl notification or a browser based notification to enter a comment regarding the newly created file or file revision a comment that is thereafter attached or associated with the file. Upon dispatching the comment e.g. clicking done or ok to indicate comment completion the message is effectively attached to the file and is then communicated e.g. transmitted over the Internet and or intranet to other users having access to the shared file together with information needed to synchronize the file creation or file instantiation operation.

From the user s perspective being prompted to attach a quick comment and clicking ok is a much easier way to convey a message with respect to the file creation revision action than having to separately create an e mail message trying to remember whom to copy a particularly onerous task when the file share group grows beyond four or five users and all the distractions that come with that effort e.g. being distracted by other e mail messages social media feeds etc. . Instead the user is able to stay within his or her current workflow attaching the message as a natural consequence of closing or modifying the file and getting back to work again. provides an example of this in this instance presenting a preview of an image within a shared file to other users for comment enabling the sender Corey to request feedback and enabling a recipient to provide a response all in the context of the preview and with all notifications being generated by a browser or desktop notification. Overall file attendant messaging is a tremendous step forward in collaborative data sharing effecting communications naturally and intuitively in a way that preserves a meaningful and readily available history of file creation and revision.

The colleagues and friends that constitute the other users of a revised or created file will receive and be able to view file attendant messages for example in pop up notifications in a browser desktop application or smartphone application see for example . In the case of a desktop notification or browser notification the message recipient can click in the notification pop up to view a larger preview of the revised created file along side the attendant message. In the case of a multi page file e.g. a pdf document the user may scroll through the pages of the file and view the different images therein. In one embodiment the user is not limited to commenting on the file as a whole and instead may comment on each page of the multi page file. In any case all such responsive comments are attached to the file and conveyed to the user that sourced the original file attendant message and all other users of the shared file. In one embodiment users may express messages or comments through page by page annotations i.e. comments that are connected to a particular feature or point in a file .

Various additional features may be layered on top of the file attendant messaging. For example the system may embed a watermark or other indication that a user or group of users is actively viewing a file i.e. has the file open . Consequently any screenshot of the file as being viewed would bear the watermark of the viewing user thus indicating the source of any screen shot or print that could be used to provide accountability and deter misuse e.g. leak or other misappropriation .

A notification having a preview of a message may also be driven as a push notification on a user s smartphone. The message despite being initiated in response to the file revision may be output as an e mail. Other users may then see the message in their e mail and then just reply by e mail and so forth. Thus the message conveyance may be effected in many ways depending on user work styles but is prompted by user action with respect to the shared file.

More generally any other ways of commenting on files that may be accessed through a programming interface or other port can be received within the file attendant messaging system to enable users to collaborate across platforms. Assume in Figure IP.001 for example that the PX Design Team folder owned by a user named Corey is a dropbox folder but that the folder just below is shared with a third party professional e.g. accountant attorney human resources professional etc. that uses Google Drive. By aggregating the comments from different sources the file attendant messaging system enables Corey who loves to use dropbox to collaborate seamlessly and intuitively with his accountant who prefers Google Drive in one place where they can both keep track of all the conversations around those files regardless of the shared storage that they use. In one embodiment the file attendant messaging system may additionally acquire the files that Corey s account has been creating and saving on Google Drive and copy them into Corey s Dropbox so that the files exist in both storage platforms. In such an embodiment the file attendant messaging system not only aggregates the comments with respect to the shared files but effectively becomes a bridge between the different storage platforms.

Note that while the primary data objects described thus far are data files the messaging techniques disclosed may be applied with respect to virtually any data objects that are shared across a network of users.

The computing system further includes one or more input and or output I O ports for receiving and outputting data files and or other shared resources and associated messages and a user interface to present and receive information to a human or artificial operator and thus enable operator control of the message attendant function e.g. set configuration programmable values etc. as well as to interact with the computing system in a manner intended by its core function. Though not shown numerous other functional blocks may be provided within the computing system and the computing system itself may be a component in a network of computing systems. Further the functional blocks are depicted as being coupled by a communication path which may include any number of shared or dedicated buses or signaling links. More generally the functional blocks shown may be interconnected in a variety of different architectures and individually be implemented by a variety of different underlying technologies and architectures. With regard to the memory architecture for example multiple different classes of storage may be provided within memory to store different classes of data. For example non volatile storage media such as fixed or removable magnetic optical or semiconductor based recording media may be provided to store executable code and related data or receivable within such system to enable receipt of such executable code and related data while volatile storage media such as static or dynamic RAM for storing variable data.

The various file attendant messaging methods and techniques disclosed herein may be implemented through execution of one or more a sequences of instructions i.e. software program s within the processing unit or by a custom built hardware ASIC application specific integrated circuit or programmed on a programmable hardware device such as an FPGA field programmable gate array or any combination thereof.

Any of the various methodologies disclosed herein and or user interfaces for configuring and managing same may be implemented by machine execution of one or more sequences instructions including related data necessary for proper instruction execution . Such instructions may be recorded on one or more computer readable media for later retrieval and execution within one or more processors of a special purpose or general purpose computer system or consumer electronic device or appliance such as the system device or appliance described in reference to . Computer readable media in which such instructions and data may be embodied include but are not limited to non volatile storage media in various forms e.g. optical magnetic or semiconductor storage media and carrier waves that may be used to transfer such instructions and data through wireless optical or wired signaling media or any combination thereof. Examples of transfers of such instructions and data by carrier waves include but are not limited to transfers uploads downloads e mail etc. over the Internet and or other computer networks via one or more data transfer protocols e.g. HTTP FTP SMTP etc. .

In the foregoing description and in the accompanying drawings specific terminology and drawing symbols have been set forth to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. In some instances the terminology and symbols may imply specific details that are not required to practice the invention.

While the invention has been described with reference to specific embodiments thereof it will be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereto without departing from the broader spirit and scope. For example features or aspects of any of the embodiments may be applied at least where practicable in combination with any other of the embodiments or in place of counterpart features or aspects thereof. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

