---

title: Inventory system with connectable inventory holders
abstract: A system includes a station and a management module. The station includes a queue having a first row and a second row. The management module is operable to instruct a first mobile drive unit to move a first group of connected item holders from the second row to the first row, instruct the first mobile drive unit to move the first group of connected item holders along the station such that one or more items stored by the first group of connected item holders are processed at the station, and after the one or more items from the first group of items are processed, instruct a second mobile drive unit to move a second group of connected item holders from the second row to the first row.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09008830&OS=09008830&RS=09008830
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 09008830
owner_city: Reno
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130128
---
Modern inventory systems such as those in distribution warehouses e commerce warehouses and custom order manufacturing facilities face significant challenges in responding to requests for inventory items. In particular inventory systems face challenges in making efficient use of time space resources in the face of growing demand and tighter shipping schedules. Those challenges are exacerbated by ever increasing size and throughput requirements of many modern inventories. As a result the ability to efficiently utilize available equipment and resources while maintaining efficiencies in terms of time and space can be crucial to the success of such inventory systems.

Inventory systems are utilized by many entities for storing and managing inventory. For example some retailers may utilize a warehouse of racks that store inventory items in various bins. When an order for a specific inventory item needs to be filled by the retailer a worker typically retrieves the inventory item from the bin where the inventory item is stored.

Inventory systems of the present disclosure may utilize one or more mobile drive units to automatically retrieve inventory holders from warehouse storage. The inventory holders may be entire racks of shelves with each shelf having bins for various inventory items. Mobile drive units may be self powered robotic devices configured to move freely about the warehouse. Racks may be transported by mobile drive units to a station for performing inventory operations. The station may include a human operator and or automated equipment to remove desired inventory items from the inventory holders and complete orders. The ability for mobile drive units to transport inventory items to a station for performing inventory operations rather than or in addition to workers manually retrieving inventory items from stationary racks may vastly increase efficiency and productivity of the inventory system. For example by utilizing mobile drive units an inventory system may be capable of fulfilling more orders per hour than previous solutions. Mobile drive units may move about the warehouse and or retrieve inventory holders in response to commands and or instructions received from an automated guidance system. For example a management module may control administration and coordination of certain elements and or tasks within the warehouse. The management module may receive orders for inventory items in the warehouse and coordinate task assignments for fulfilling the orders including providing instructions to mobile drive units to transport racks with requested inventory items to an inventory station for completion of an order. The management module may also provide guidance at the inventory station for how the order is to be assembled.

To use a simple illustration in a distribution warehouse for an office supply store the management module may receive an order for a printer several ink cartridges and a box of paper. The management module may determine the locations of these items within the racks of storage in the distribution warehouse. The items may for instance be on the shelves of three separate racks. The management module may issue tasks for three different mobile drive units to retrieve each rack respectively holding the printer ink cartridges and paper and for the mobile drive units to transport the racks holding those items to an inventory station where the order for the three items may be packed into a box for shipment. In doing so the management module may coordinate the various tasks such that all of the orders received by the management module are fulfilled in an efficient manner.

To facilitate fulfilling orders at the inventory station in a more efficient manner inventory holders may be transported to a queue where they may wait their turn to have their items processed. Because a queue may move on a fairly regular basis as items are processed from each inventory holder a mobile drive unit may typically be used for each inventory holder to ensure that the inventory holders progress through the queue in a timely manner. Depending on the size of the queue this may potentially keep many mobile drive units tied up waiting in queue that might otherwise be used for other tasks. This may be a particularly acute problem with large inventory systems that may have for example tens of thousands of inventory holders and or that may be required to process a high number of inventory items per hour. Such systems may be forced into a trade off between using larger queues requiring more mobile drive units and higher costs and using smaller queues and less mobile drive units at lower costs and or throughput. Accordingly the teachings of the present disclosure provide an inventory system with connectable inventory holders. Connectable inventory holders may be capable of being transported individually by mobile drive units or connected together and transported by one or more mobile drive units as a group. For example a connectable inventory holder may be individually transported to a queue where it is then connected to or used to form a group of connected inventory holders. For example each inventory holder may include one or more connection mechanisms such as clamps or hooks that can be actuated by a mobile drive unit to connect the inventory holder to an adjacent inventory holder. By connecting multiple inventory holders together a chain or column of connected inventory holders may be formed allowing the chain or column to be moved together as a group or unit. Because the inventory holders may be connected together and moved as a unit a mobile drive unit need not be used for every inventory holder to move the group or unit. Accordingly groups of connected inventory holders can be formed while those inventory holders wait in a queue and fewer mobile drive units may be used to effectively manage the queue. For example a column of five connected inventory holders may be moved through the queue by one or two mobile drive units rather than five. As each inventory holder reaches the front of the queue and is processed at the inventory station it can be disconnected from the group and returned individually to a storage location or other location. Even greater efficiencies may be realized by using a queue having multiple columns of connected inventory holders. For instance once one column of connected inventory holders is processed the next column may be moved up in the queue to take the first column s place. An illustrative queue might contain eight rows of five columns of connected inventory holders having a total of forty inventory holders in queue . Rather than using forty mobile drive units to manage the queue such an arrangement may be managed by as few as one to four mobile drive units by utilizing queue management techniques as disclosed in more detail below. Thus using such techniques to manage groups of connected inventory holders relatively large queues may be deployed and managed with relatively fewer mobile drive units. Accordingly inventory systems may be capable of deploying larger inventory systems with larger queues and higher throughput at a lower economic cost and greater efficiency.

Similar advantages can be realized using connectable inventory holders for shipping purposes. For example multiple connectable inventory holders can be connected together into a group suitable for shipment. Accordingly rather than have a mobile drive unit individually load each inventory holder into a shipping crate or shipping vehicle a relatively fewer number of mobile drive units can be used to load groups of connected inventory holders. In addition crates or trailers can be equipped with connection mechanisms so that inventory holders may be secured for shipment.

As another example large quantities of inventory holders can be moved from one location to another by a relatively small number of mobile drive units. For example when a popular inventory item has an expected release date an inventory system may build up an inventory backlog of that item. The item however will not be used to fill orders until the release date. Thus that item may be stored away from the inventory stations in a less used portion of the warehouse. When the item is released it may be desirable to move the item in bulk to be closer to the inventory stations so that the item can be used to fill orders in a more timely and efficient manner. To move the item in bulk from one portion of the warehouse to another the inventory holders storing those items may be connected and moved as a group.

The management module may control and automate creation of connected groups of inventory holders as appropriate to suit the needs of the inventory system. For instance the management module may instruct one or more mobile drive units to assemble and transport a group of connected inventory holders. To facilitate this ability the inventory holders may be equipped with sensors actuators and or communications devices to facilitate connection as described in more detail below. For example inventory holders may include actuators controllable by mobile drive units that allow the connection mechanism to be engaged in response to a command by a mobile drive unit. Alternatively or in addition the connection mechanism may be configured to engage when a sensor detects that another inventory holder is in proper position for connection. Accordingly the disconnection and connection of connected inventory bins may be automatically controlled as appropriate during the operation of the inventory system by the management module and or by mobile drive units.

Technical advantages of certain embodiments of the present disclosure include the ability to provide an inventory system with connected inventory holders. Another technical advantage may include the ability for a management module to automatically control and or manage the assembly of groups of connected inventory holders. Accordingly mobile drive units may be instructed to assemble or form groups of connected inventory holders in queues to inventory stations. Mobile drive units may be instructed to move the one or more groups of connected inventory holders through a queue while adding additional groups of connected inventory holders and or disconnecting individual inventory holders from a group as appropriate. Thus connectable inventory holders may allow greater queue sizes to be achieved and or fewer mobile drive units to be used than would otherwise be achievable using other techniques. Mobile drive units may in some embodiments assemble or form groups of connected inventory holders for shipment which may allow for fewer mobile drive units to be used during the shipping process than would otherwise be achievable. Another technical advantage may include the ability to move large groups of inventory holders in masse by a limited number of mobile drive units. Further technical advantages of certain embodiments of the present invention may include providing a flexible and scalable inventory storage solution that can be easily adapted to accommodate system growth and modification. Other technical advantages of the present invention will be readily apparent to one skilled in the art from the following figures descriptions and claims.

While specific advantages and examples have been enumerated above various embodiments may include all some or none of the enumerated advantages or examples. Embodiments of the present invention and its advantages are best understood by referring to wherein like numerals refer to like and corresponding parts of the various drawings.

Management module receives and or generates requests and may initiate particular operations involving mobile drive units inventory holders inventory items stations and or other elements of inventory system . Management module may select components of inventory system to perform these operations and communicate commands instructions and or other appropriate information to the selected components to facilitate completion of these operations. Management module may receive orders for various inventory items and coordinate and administer various appropriate tasks to fill the orders. Management module may receive orders from any appropriate system or component and may alternatively or additionally generate tasks and assign tasks to various components of inventory system using any appropriate techniques. In particular embodiments management module generates task assignments based in part on orders including requests for inventory items that management module receives from other components of inventory system and or from external components in communication with management module . Based on the orders management module may identify particular operations to be completed involving inventory items stored or to be stored within inventory system and may represent communication of any suitable form. For example in particular embodiments an order may specify particular inventory items that have been purchased by a customer and that are to be retrieved from inventory system for shipment to the customer. Although the description below discusses embodiments of inventory system that receive orders for various inventory items management module may receive other orders and or operations requests from any appropriate system or component and may alternatively or additionally generate such orders and or requests itself using any appropriate techniques.

After generating one or more task assignments management module may select appropriate components to complete particular tasks and transmit task assignments to selected components to trigger completion of the relevant tasks. The relevant components then execute their assigned tasks. Each task assignment defines one or more tasks to be completed by a particular component. These tasks may relate to the retrieval storage replenishment and counting of inventory items and or the management of mobile drive units inventory holders stations and other components of inventory system . Depending on the component and the task to be completed a particular task assignment may identify locations components and or actions associated with the corresponding task and or any other appropriate information to be used by the relevant component in completing the assigned task. During the course of operating inventory system management module may determine based on various factors to assemble or form group and or add an inventory holder to a group of connected inventory holders for transportation by one or more mobile drive units . For example management module may determine to form group at a queue to a station . As another example management module may determine to assemble at a shipping station a group of connected inventory holders that store processed orders ready for shipment. Accordingly management module may assign tasks instructing various mobile drive units to assemble groups transport groups and or disassemble groups . In some embodiments management module may assign tasks to add or remove individual inventory holders to or from group as appropriate. Mobile drive units may accordingly be capable of moving inventory holder into position to be connected to another inventory holder in group . Mobile drive unit may then in some embodiments cause connection module to be activated and thereby connect the inventory holder to another inventory holder .

Management module may be capable of determining particular patterns arrangements and or quantities of inventory holders in group based on various factors and or based on the purpose of group . For instance management module may determine to assemble chain row or column of connected inventory holders to wait in a queue to stations . The number of inventory holders in groups may be based for example on the size of the desired queue which may be determined dynamically based on the work capacity or desired throughput of inventory system . To illustrate management module may determine to increase the size of the queue and or the size and or number of groups in the queue based on detecting an increase in number of orders to be processed by inventory system and or determining that a number of orders to process is above a predetermined threshold.

While the appropriate components of inventory system complete assigned tasks management module may interact with the relevant components to ensure the efficient use of space equipment manpower and other resources available to inventory system . For example management module may receive information from the various components of system regarding their current location state and or other characteristics. Based on its knowledge of the location current state and or other characteristics of the various components of inventory system and an awareness of tasks currently being completed management module can generate tasks allot usage of system resources and otherwise direct the completion of tasks by the individual components in a manner that optimizes operation from a system wide perspective. Moreover by relying on a combination of both centralized system wide management and localized component specific decision making particular embodiments of inventory system may be able to support a number of techniques for efficiently executing various aspects of the operation of inventory system involving inventory items . As a result some embodiments of management module may by implementing one or more management techniques described below enhance the efficiency of inventory system and or provide other operational benefits.

Mobile drive units move inventory holders between locations within a workspace associated with inventory system . Mobile drive units may represent any devices or components appropriate for use in inventory system based on the characteristics and configuration of inventory holders and or other elements of inventory system . In a particular embodiment of inventory system mobile drive units represent independent self powered robotic devices configured to freely move about the associated workspace. In alternative embodiments mobile drive units represent elements of a tracked inventory system configured to move inventory holder along tracks rails cables or other guidance elements traversing the associated workspace. In such embodiments mobile drive units may receive power through a connection to the guidance elements such as a powered rail.

Mobile drive units may transport inventory holders by docking with and or coupling to a particular holder and moving the holder while docked. Mobile drive units may similarly transport a group of connected inventory holders by docking with and or coupling to a particular inventory holder in group and moving while docked. In some embodiments two or more mobile drive units may coordinate to transport group of connected inventory holders . For example as illustrated two mobile drive units that are docked with inventory holders coordinate to transport group of inventory holders . Mobile drive units may transport inventory holder by moving beneath inventory holder and lifting a docking head that interfaces with a portion of inventory holder . The docking head may be controlled by an actuator of mobile drive unit operable to lift and or couple to inventory holder when docked. The docking head of mobile drive unit may couple mobile drive unit to inventory holder and or at least partially support inventory holder when mobile drive unit is docked to inventory holder . Mobile drive unit may utilize the docking head to maneuver inventory holder such as by lifting inventory holder propelling inventory holder rotating inventory holder and or moving inventory holder in any other appropriate manner. The docking head of mobile drive unit may also include any appropriate combination of components to facilitate such manipulation of inventory holder . For example in some embodiments a high friction portion may form all or a portion of the docking head which abuts a portion of inventory holder while mobile drive unit is docked to inventory holder . In such embodiments frictional forces created between the high friction portion of the docking head and a surface of inventory holder may induce translational and rotational movement in inventory holder when mobile drive unit actuates docking head and or when mobile drive unit actuates its wheels to move. In some embodiments the docking head may include raised and or corrugated portions that align with corresponding depressed and or corrugated portion of inventory holder . In some embodiments mobile drive units may lift inventory holders off the ground while docked. Additionally or alternatively mobile drive unit may raise the docking head against a surface of inventory holder to create sufficient frictional force to allow mobile drive unit to move inventory holder while casters on legs of inventory holder remain in contact with the ground.

In some embodiments mobile drive unit may be capable of rotating its docking head to rotate inventory holder while moving and or while stopped. In addition or in the alternative mobile drive unit may be capable of rotating the docking head independently or as a part of the movement of mobile drive unit as a whole. For example mobile drive unit may rotate inventory holder as mobile drive unit executes a turn such that inventory holder continues to face the original direction of movement. As another example mobile drive unit may rotate inventory holder so that an appropriate face of inventory holder is oriented towards stations . The rotation may occur for example before mobile drive unit connects inventory holder to group . While lifted mobile drive unit may control another actuator or actuators driving power to its wheels. Using the wheel actuators mobile drive unit may be capable of transporting inventory holder while the docking head is lifting inventory holder or while mobile drive unit is undocked and or uncoupled from inventory holder . As illustrated mobile drive unit includes a pair of stabilizer wheels in addition to the motorized wheels powered by one or more actuators.

It should be noted that while a particular method of docking with inventory holder is illustrated mobile drive units may dock with inventory holders by connecting to lifting and or otherwise interacting with inventory holders in any other suitable manner so that when docked mobile drive units are coupled to and or support inventory holders and can move inventory holders . While the description below focuses on particular embodiments of mobile drive unit and inventory holder that are configured to dock in a particular manner alternative embodiments of mobile drive unit and inventory holder may be configured to dock in any manner suitable to allow mobile drive unit to move inventory holder within inventory system . Additionally as noted below in particular embodiments mobile drive units represent all or portions of inventory holders . In such embodiments mobile drive units may not dock with inventory holders before transporting inventory holders and or mobile drive units may each remain continually docked with a particular inventory holder .

Mobile drive units may be capable of communicating with management module to receive information identifying selected inventory holders transmit locations of mobile drive units or exchange any other suitable information used by management module or mobile drive units during operation. Mobile drive units may communicate with management module wirelessly using wired connections between mobile drive units and management module and or in any other appropriate manner. As one example some embodiments of mobile drive unit may communicate with management module and or with one another using Wi Fi IEEE 802.11 Bluetooth IEEE 802.15 Infrared Data Association standards or any other appropriate wireless communication protocol. As another example in a tracked inventory system tracks or other guidance elements upon which mobile drive units move may be wired to facilitate communication between mobile drive units and other components of inventory system .

Mobile drive units may be capable of communicating with connection modules in a similar manner as described above with respect to management module . In particular embodiments mobile drive unit may include a communication port and or interface that interfaces with a corresponding interface of inventory holder while mobile drive unit is docked with that inventory holder . For example mobile drive unit may include a communication port located on its docking head that interfaces with an appropriate port located on the lower surface of inventory holder . Accordingly mobile drive unit may communicate with connection modules . Mobile drive unit may for example receive status information regarding the connection status repair status or other appropriate status of connection module . For example the connection status may indicate whether or not a given connection module is connected to another inventory holder . Connection status may also indicate the connection status of other connection module of inventory holders that are connected to the given connection module . Connection status may be provided for all connection modules in group of connected inventory holders . Moreover each inventory holder in a group of connected inventory holders may be capable of transmitting status information to one or more mobile drive units transporting that group . In some embodiments connection module may be capable of transmitting status indicating the weight of inventory holder and or weight distribution to the legs of inventory holder . Accordingly inventory holder may be equipped with appropriate sensors such as force gauges which may allow connection module to receive information related to the weight of inventory holder . For example a newtometer may be equipped on one or more of the legs of inventory holder which may allow connection module to receive the weight on each leg and or determine a distribution of weight in inventory holder . Such information may be transmitted to mobile drive unit and or management module which may utilize the information in its decision making process. For instance management module may determine based on weight and or weight distribution how many mobile drive units should be used to move a particular group . Additionally or alternatively management module may determine to group inventory holders that have particular weight and or weight distribution characteristics such as a desired and or maximum weight. As another example management module may make decisions as to how mobile drive unit is to transport inventory holder and or group . Mobile drive units may transport inventory holders with imbalanced weight distributions slower and or with different and or lower rates of acceleration and or deceleration than inventory holders that have balanced weight distribution.

In some embodiments connection module may be capable of transmitting a unique identifier to mobile drive unit . Such an identifier may be utilized by management module and or mobile drive unit to provide a check on whether the inventory holder at a particular location is the same as the one that is expected. If the inventory holder is not the one that is expected when mobile drive unit receives the unique identifier management module may update and or correct the location of that inventory holder .

In some embodiments connection module may include an appropriate sensor capable of detecting the proximity of another inventory holder . Accordingly connection module may transmit a signal indicating proximity information to mobile drive unit . Alternatively or in addition connection module may transmit a signal indicating when another connection module and or inventory holder is within a predetermined distance and or in contact with connection module . Mobile drive unit may also communicate activation signals or other appropriate commands to connection module to cause connection module to actuate its connection mechanisms and connect to hook latch clamp and or otherwise connect to another inventory holder . For instance mobile drive unit may determine based on proximity information received from connection module that inventory holder is in proper alignment with another inventory holder . Accordingly mobile drive unit may then activate connection module to initiate the connection of connection module to another inventory holder . Mobile drive units may be capable of communicating with one some or all of the connection modules in group . For example connection modules may be configured to include appropriate communications devices interfaces and or ports that allow communications to be established between the various inventory holders in group . Accordingly mobile drive units that are docked with an inventory holders may communicate with all some or none of the connection modules that are in group .

Inventory holders store inventory items and may include one or more connection modules . Inventory holders may represent any appropriate holder for storing items including shipping containers totes bins cartons boxes or other appropriate containers. In some embodiments inventory holders include multiple storage bins with each storage bin capable of holding a different type of inventory item . Inventory holders are capable of being carried rolled or otherwise moved by mobile drive units . In some embodiments inventory holder may provide additional propulsion to supplement that provided by mobile drive unit when moving inventory holder . Additionally in particular embodiments each inventory holder may have a plurality of faces and each bin may be accessible through specific faces of the relevant inventory holder . Mobile drive units may be configured to rotate inventory holders at appropriate times to present particular faces of inventory holders and the associated bins to an operator or other components of inventory system . In some embodiments inventory holders include one or more connection modules on each face of inventory holders . For example in some embodiments in which inventory holders have four faces connection modules may be mounted on all four faces. As another example connection modules may be mounted on two opposite faces. Thus inventory holders may be capable of being connected to another inventory holder in any appropriate orientation and or connected an inventory holder at one or more or all of its connection modules . Moreover inventory holders may be capable of being connected into any appropriate group of inventory holders having any appropriate pattern and or configuration. Thus group may represent any appropriate arrangement of connected inventory holders . Group may represent a column row cluster chain grid or any other appropriate pattern of connected inventory holders . For example group may represent a single column of connected inventory holders that is one inventory holder wide by four or five inventory holders long. As another example group may represent a grid of connected inventory holders such as a two by two grid of connected inventory holders . Group may also represent a three by three grid four by four grid three by six grid or any other appropriate grid of any length n and or width m. A grid may be formed by connecting together the sides of one or more columns of connected inventory holders. It should be noted however that while groups having particular configurations have been provided by way of example only that the teachings of the present disclosure extend to any appropriate configurations including columns of any appropriate length and or grids of any appropriate numbers of connected inventory holders . In particular embodiments management module may be capable of determining an appropriate length and or size of group based in part upon the power and or torque of available mobile drive units and or based on the collective weight of group . Management module may additionally or alternatively determine to utilize an appropriate number of mobile drive units to transport a particular group based the torque and or power required to transport a particular group . Inventory holders in some embodiments may be deployed with a set of one or more brakes which may be locked to prevent rolling of the casters on one or more legs of inventory holders . The brakes may be actuated in response to commands from connection modules which may in turn be controlled by mobile drive units in communication with connection modules . Accordingly one or more brake lines and or communications paths may be routed from connection module to the brakes of inventory holder . In some embodiments inventory holders may be configured to be placed into containers and or shipping containers for shipment. Shipping containers may additionally or alternatively include connection modules and may function in the same or similar manner as described herein with respect to inventory holders .

Inventory items represent any objects suitable for storage retrieval and or processing in an automated inventory system . For the purposes of this description inventory items may represent any one or more objects of a particular type that are stored in inventory system . As one example inventory system may represent a retail distribution warehouse that stores bulk inventory items for retail facilities such as grocery stores and or merchandise warehouses. As another example inventory system may represent a mail order warehouse facility and inventory items may represent merchandise stored in the warehouse facility. During operation mobile drive units may retrieve inventory holders containing one or more inventory items requested in an order to be packed for delivery to a customer. Inventory holders storing inventory items to be processed at stations may be assembled by mobile drive units into groups of connected and or connected inventory holders . Moreover in particular embodiments of inventory system boxes containing completed orders may themselves represent inventory items.

Connection modules represent any appropriate combination of devices components hardware software and controlling logic operable to connect and or interconnect one inventory holder to another inventory holder . Connection modules may include appropriate connection mechanisms such as hooks clamps latches connectors claws magnets or other appropriate connection elements operable to connect to another inventory holder . Connection module may be capable of connecting to another inventory holder at any appropriate structural portion of that inventory holder . Alternatively or in addition connection module may connect to another connection module of that inventory holder . In some embodiments connection modules may be configured to interconnect with each other such that a first connection module on one inventory holder is configured to connect to a second connection module on another inventory holder while the second connection module may be configured to connect to the first connection module . Connection modules may include any appropriate communications devices and or sensors to detect the proximity of another inventory holder and or connection module . For example a sensor on a connection module of a first inventory holder may be operable to detect that a second inventory holder is proximate to the first inventory holder . Connection module may be operable to connect the first inventory holder to a second inventory holder based at least in part upon the sensor detecting that the second inventory holder is proximate to the first inventory holder. Connection module may be capable of transmitting status information to mobile drive units and or other components of system such as management module . For example connection module may transmit status information indicating whether it is connected to another connection module whether its connection elements are engaged or disengaged its power state repair state or any other appropriate status relevant to the operation of connection modules and or the assembly or disassembly of groups . For instance connection module may transmit information to mobile drive unit and or management module that its connection elements are broken and or not functioning. Accordingly management module may take into account the repair state of connection modules when assembling groups of connected and or connected inventory holders . Management module may determine not to utilize a particular inventory holder having a repair state indicating a broken and or not functioning connection module and or may determine to connect inventory holder utilizing one of its functioning connection modules . As another example connection module may transmit information to mobile drive unit indicating that it is connected to another inventory holder . A particular embodiment of connection module is discussed in greater detail below with respect to .

Stations may represent any appropriate components for processing or handling inventory items such as scanners for monitoring the flow of inventory items in and out of inventory system communication interfaces for communicating with management module and or any other suitable components. Stations may be controlled entirely or in part by human operators or may be fully automated. Moreover the human or automated operators of stations may be capable of performing certain tasks to inventory items such as packing or counting inventory items as part of the operation of inventory system . In some embodiments stations may include and or be associated with one or more operator terminals. Stations may include and or be associated with queues in which one or more various groups of connected and or interconnected inventory holders may wait for processing. When an inventory holder reaches a processing location at stations which may be at the front of a queue automated equipment and or a human operator may remove one or more inventory items from that inventory holder for processing. Mobile drive unit may then disconnect inventory holder from group remove that inventory holder from the queue and or move that inventory holder to another location within inventory system . For example inventory holder may be returned to inventory storage. Stations may additionally or alternatively represent a shipping station in which inventory holders are stored until an appropriate time for shipment. After an appropriate trigger event is detected such as a transportation vehicle arriving at a shipping station groups of connected inventory holders may be loaded onto the vehicle by mobile drive units for shipment. More details of example operations involving groups of connected inventory holders inventory stations and shipping stations are discussed below with respect to .

Although station as used in the following description refers to locations at which any appropriate processing operation supported by inventory system may be completed particular embodiments of inventory system may include specialized stations suitable for performing only a single processing task supported by inventory system such as a shipping station. Moreover a particular embodiment of inventory system may include stations that are in general capable of handling multiple types of operation requests but at any given time configured to handle only one particular type of operation requests.

Connection elements represent any appropriate combination of hooks latches clamps connectors or other connection elements operable to connect to a portion of another inventory holder such as another connection module . For example connection elements may represent a set of multiple clamping elements or claws configured to latch onto and or clamp to another connection module on another inventory holder . Connection module of the other inventory holder may similarly latch and or clamp onto the illustrated connection module . A more detailed illustration of how the two connection modules may interconnect is illustrated below and discussed with respect to .

Contact pad represents any appropriate material or materials operable to absorb the force and or shock. For example contact pad may absorb the shock of another inventory holder being moved up against connection module . For example contact pad may be a shock absorber made of rubber or other appropriate material. Contact pad may be configured to allow two inventory holders to come into contact with each other without damaging dislocating or otherwise disturbing connection modules .

Communications interface represents any appropriate communication interface operable to transmit information from one connection module to another connection module . Communication interface may utilize any of the above discussed communications protocols discussed with respect to mobile drive units including any of the above aforementioned wireless communication standards. Additionally or alternatively communications interface may represent a wired and or physical interface which may include a plurality of contacts for data communication contact and or providing power to and or from another connection module . Communications interface may include contacts able to connect to a connection module when placed in contact with the other connection module . For example the contacts may be flat conductive elements that abut against each other to provide connectivity. Accordingly when connection modules are connected to each other a communications network may be formed by the various inventory holders in group . It should be understood however that while a particular embodiment of communicating is described as an example inventory holders in group may communicate with each other and or with mobile drive units in any appropriate manner.

Sensor represents any appropriate sensor capable of detecting the proximity of another connection module and or inventory holder . For example sensor may represent a photo sensor and or camera operable to detect and or determine that an object approaching is an inventory holder . Additionally or alternatively sensor may represent a magnetic and or capacitive touch sensor magnetic plate or other sensor operable to respond to the presence contact and or touch of another connection module and or a portion of inventory holder to which connection module is configured to connect to.

Casters represent any appropriate wheels rollers skids or other device operable to allow inventory to move along the ground while docked with mobile drive unit . Casters may be provided to facilitate the movement of inventory holders that are in group but are not directly docked with mobile drive units . For example in a four inventory holder group of connected inventory holders the two inventory holders on each end may be docked with a mobile drive unit while inventory holders in between the ends are not. Thus movement by mobile drive units may induce the movement of inventory holders which may be facilitated by casters . For example those inventory holders in group may be configured to roll along as the mobile drive units moves group . In should be noted however that while illustrated as including casters inventory holders need not include casters. For example mobile drive units and or connection modules may be configured such that mobile drive units are capable of lifting an entire group of inventory holders that are connected in a group . In such case inventory holders may not include casters .

Communications interface represents any appropriate interface and or communication device operable to facilitate communications between connection module and mobile drive unit . Communication interface may be similar to and or the same as communications interface . Communications interface may accordingly include contact elements as described above configured to interface and or connect to communications interface . For example communications interface may include data contacts and or power contacts as appropriate. As illustrated in communications interface is located on a lower surface of inventory holder which may be the surface against which docking head of mobile drive unit docks. A bus and or communications path may be connected from communications interface to connection module . Additionally or alternatively communications interfaces and may represent the same communications interface and or may represent one wireless communication device operable to communicate with mobile drive unit other connection modules and or management module .

As illustrated mobile drive unit includes docking head and communications interface . Docking head represents any appropriate device operable to connect mobile drive unit to inventory holder . Docking head may be a docking head similar to and or the same as the docking head described above with respect to . For example docking head may represent a head that is moveable by mobile drive unit by an actuator and that may be raised against the lower surface of inventory holder . Mobile drive unit may raise or lower docking head in response to commands from management module .

Communications interface represents any appropriate interface and or communication device operable to facilitate communications between connection module and mobile drive unit . As illustrated in communications interface may be located on a surface of docking head . Accordingly when docking head is raised against the lower surface of inventory holder communications interface may interface with and or connects to communications interface . Communications interface may accordingly include corresponding contact elements to communication interface . For example communications interface may include data contacts and or power contacts as appropriate. Accordingly communications interface may be utilized to provide power to connection module while mobile drive unit is docked with inventory holder . Similarly communications interface may provide power to and or communicate with other connection modules that are connected to inventory holders in group via communications interfaces . For example mobile drive unit docked with a first inventory holder in a group of four inventory holders may provide power and or communicate with connection modules of each of the four inventory holders . Mobile drive unit may communicate with each connection module through each successive communications interface of each inventory holder . Alternatively or in addition mobile drive unit may charge a battery or other rechargeable power source of connection module while in connection with inventory holder .

In operation mobile drive unit may receive an instruction and or task assignment to transport inventory holder from a first location to a second location within inventory system . For example mobile drive unit may receive an instruction to form a particular group of inventory holders at a particular location. In response mobile drive unit may move to the location of inventory holder and dock with inventory holder . In some embodiments mobile drive unit may pass between the legs of inventory holder align itself such that docking head is aligned with a particular portion of inventory holder beneath inventory holder . For example inventory holder may include a reference point or marker and mobile drive unit may utilize one or more sensors to align with the reference point or mark. Thus mobile drive unit may insure that docking head and or communications interface are properly aligned before docking with inventory holder . Once aligned mobile drive unit may then actuate its docking head to be raised against a surface of inventory holder . Raising docking head against the surface of inventory holder may in some embodiments connect communications interfaces and . Accordingly mobile drive unit may establish a communications session with connection module during the process and or after docking with inventory holder . Mobile drive unit may additionally or alternatively establish communications sessions with each of the connection modules that are connected to inventory holder in group . It should be noted however that mobile drive unit may be capable of establishing communications sessions with connection modules at any appropriate time including using any appropriate interface such as a wireless interface.

Mobile drive unit may receive various status information from connection module such as a repair status the engagement status of connection elements and or any of the aforementioned statuses that were discussed with respect to . Accordingly mobile drive unit may then proceed to transport the first inventory holder to a second location within inventory system . For example management module may instruct mobile drive unit to assemble and or form a group of connected inventory holders at a particular location. Mobile drive unit may accordingly transport first inventory holder to the location of a second inventory holder to be connected into group . For example mobile drive unit may move first inventory holder towards second inventory holder until mobile drive unit receives information from sensor indicating the proximity of the second inventory holder and or that the second inventory holder is within a predetermined distance of inventory holder . For example mobile drive unit may move inventory holder towards the other inventory holder until the second inventory holder s connection module makes contact with contact pad of first inventory holder . Such contact may trigger sensor to indicate that the second inventory holder is proximate and or in position to be connected into group . Alternatively or in addition sensor may periodically transmit to mobile drive unit information indicating a proximity to the second inventory holder which may indicate its distance from inventory holder . The distance falls below a predetermined threshold may be calculated to be a sufficient distance that allows connection of the two inventory holders .

Once the two inventory holders are sufficiently close together mobile drive unit may transmit a signal for connection module to activate its connection elements . In response connection module may engage connection elements of connection module onto the second inventory holder. For example connection elements may clamp latch hook or otherwise connect to connection module of the second inventory holder. Before during and or after activating connection elements the first communications interface connect to the second communication interface of the second connection module . Accordingly mobile drive unit and the first connection module may establish a communication session with the second connection module . Mobile drive unit may in some embodiments instruct the second connection module to activate its connection elements onto the first connection module. In some embodiments communications may be established with both connection modules and both connection elements may be activated by mobile drive unit at or near substantially the same time. Alternatively or in addition first connection elements may be engaged by mobile drive unit to connect to the second connection module the communications session may be established after which the second connection elements may be engaged. It should be understood however that connection may occur in any suitable order. Accordingly mobile drive unit may determine that the first inventory holder is connected with the second inventory holder .

Using these techniques mobile drive units may move multiple inventory holders together for connection and form and or to assemble groups of connected inventory holders . For example after the first inventory holder is connected to the second inventory holder to form all or a portion of group mobile drive units may transport additional inventory holders to group to be connected and or transport group to another inventory holder to be connected. For example a mobile drive unit may move the first and second connected inventory holders to connect to a third inventory holder . Once the third inventory holder is in position mobile drive unit which may be docked with the first inventory holder may instruct the second inventory holder to connect to the third inventory holder . Mobile drive units may be instructed by management module to present a particular face or faces of inventory holders for connection between connection modules of the inventory holders in group . Accordingly mobile drive units may be capable of forming groups having any particular patterns and or arrangements. To illustrate mobile drive units may form a group of four connected inventory holders arranged in a single file chain or column. It should be noted however that while a specific example is provided for illustration any appropriate pattern or arrangement having any number of inventory holders may be used.

After connecting to inventory holders into group mobile drive units may be instructed to transport the group to another location within inventory system as a group . Thus mobile drive unit may move the first inventory holder and the second holder from a first location to a second location while the mobile drive unit is docked with the first inventory holder and while the first inventory holder is connected with the second inventory holder . In some embodiments two or more drive units may coordinate to transport group . For example two mobile drive units may coordinate to transport a column or chain of four or five inventory holders . In some embodiments mobile drive units may dock with inventory holders at an inventory holder at each end of the group such as is illustrated in . To coordinate movement mobile drive units may exchange path information and or collision information regarding any obstacles in the path of the group of inventory holders . Similarly management module may plan paths and or reserve segments of paths for group of inventory holders in order to move it from one location to another within inventory system .

Mobile drive units may also disconnect inventory holders and or disassemble groups in any appropriate manner. For example a group may be disassembled by mobile drive unit by disconnecting the inventory holder furthest away in a chain or column. To illustrate in a column of three inventory holders mobile drive unit docked with the first inventory holder may instruct the third inventory holder to disconnect from the second inventory holder. In particular embodiments this may include several commands to the connection modules of the second and third inventory holders. Mobile drive unit may first instruct the third connection module on the third inventory holder to disconnect from the second inventory holder . Mobile drive unit may then instruct the second connection module to disconnect from the third inventory holder . After verifying that the third inventory holder is disconnected mobile drive unit may repeat the procedure with the second inventory holder and the first inventory holder . For example mobile drive unit may query the connection status of each inventory holder to verify that it is disconnected. From time to time connection modules may malfunction and or fail to disconnect on command by mobile drive unit . If mobile drive unit determines that an inventory holder is still connected after issuing a disconnect command mobile drive unit may report such status back to management module . Management module may then instruct mobile drive unit to transport the group of inventory holders to an appropriate station such as a repair station where the connection modules may be fixed and or replaced. In some embodiments mobile drive unit may simply disconnect the inventory holder that it is docked with and or leave the remaining group of inventory holders connected. Such a disconnection technique may be useful in situations such as a queue of inventory holders as is discussed in more detail below.

Mobile drive units may additionally or alternatively selectively control brakes that may be deployed on some inventory holders . Mobile drive units may communicate with and or control brakes in any appropriate manner such as through the communications interface with connection module . Mobile drive units may employ brakes to aid in stopping and or slowing inventory holders and or groups of inventory holders . Mobile drive units may also set brakes before disconnecting from inventory holder so that inventory holders may remain parked in a particular place without rolling or moving away. For example a floor or surface of workspace may be uneven and parking brakes may be set to prevent movement of inventory holders when parked. As another example brakes may be set when inventory holders are moved into a vehicle for shipment to a remote destination. Additionally or alternatively brakes can selectively be set for a portion of inventory holders in a group to facilitate rotation and or movement of groups . To illustrate a brake on one leg of an inventory holder at a corner of a group arranged in a three by three grid may be set which may allow that leg to act as a pivot point for moving the group around a corner or otherwise turning or rotating group . Any appropriate brake may be set depending on the desired rotation maneuver.

As illustrated in connection module may include a plurality of connection elements that extend laterally from the main body of connection module . As illustrated connection module includes two pairs of three connection elements extending from either side of connection module . Each connection element may include an elongated portion and a bent portion. The bent portion may be used to hook and or clamp onto a portion of another inventory holder . As illustrated the bent portions are at the end of each connection element and extend at for example a substantially orthogonal angle to the elongated portion of connection element .

As illustrated in connection elements may be connected to hinges which may be actuatable in response to commands transmitted to connection module . Additionally or alternatively hinges may be configured to be initiated automatically based on contact with another connection module. also illustrates an example configuration of a contact pad and sensor . When another contact pad comes into contact with connection module it may compress contact pad which may place detectable pressure and or stress on sensor . In response sensor may transmit a signal to connection module and or mobile drive unit to indicate the presence of another connection module . That signal may cause mobile drive unit and or connection module to activate hinges and clamp the connection elements onto the other connection module .

As illustrated in as inventory holder is moved towards inventory holder sensor may transmit proximity information to mobile drive unit . Mobile drive unit may continue moving towards the other inventory holder until the other inventory holder is within a predetermined distance to the first inventory holder .

In once inventory holder has come within a predetermined distance and or is proximate to inventory holder sensor of inventory holder may transmit a signal to mobile drive unit indicating the presence of the inventory holder . For example sensor may transmit a signal once the contact pads come into contact with contact pads

In once the mobile drive unit determines that inventory holder is proximate to inventory holder mobile drive unit may transmit a signal to connection elements of inventory holder to engage connection elements . Connection elements may then be actuated and clamp on to connection module of inventory holder . A communications session may be established between connection module and connection module once communication interface is in contact with communication interface . Accordingly mobile drive unit may additionally or alternatively establish a communication session with connection module . Mobile drive unit may then initiate engagement of connection elements on connection module such that connection elements engaged onto connection module

In two connected inventory holders and are connected by connection modules and . Once connected the two inventory holders may be moved together as one group by mobile drive unit . Alternatively or in addition more inventory holders may be added to group as appropriate. It should be noted that while in the illustrated embodiments each inventory holder is depicted as having one connection module per side inventory holders may be equipped with any appropriate number of connection modules per side such as two or more. Those connection modules may be configured to work in parallel and or may be controlled by a single controller.

It should be noted that while a particular embodiment of connection module is described herein as connection module connection modules and or may represent any appropriate combination of devices sensors actuators and or communication devices operable to connect one inventory holder to a second inventory holder operable to connect to inventory holders together in response to commands from management module and or mobile drive unit . Moreover it is envisioned that the teachings of the present disclosure extend to any appropriate form of connection between inventory holders including but not limited to connection modules and or .

Shipping stations represents stations at which tasks associated with shipping replenishment and or replacement inventory items take place. For example shipping stations may include a loading dock and or appropriate processing equipment to intake new inventory items into inventory system and or ship orders of inventory items from inventory system . At shipping stations new inventory may be received broken down handled input into inventory system and or any other appropriate task associated with receiving inventory items into inventory system . As illustrated one or more groups of connected inventory items may arrive on vehicles at inventory station . Mobile drive units may enter vehicles to remove groups of connected inventory holders . Accordingly a fewer of mobile drive units may be required to handle the inventory holder processing activities at inventory station then if mobile drive units were used for each individual inventory holder . Alternatively or in addition shipping stations may store inventory holders storing completed orders ready for shipment. Such inventory holders may be transported to shipping station to await a triggering event indicating the completed and or processed orders stored therein should be shipped. While at shipping stations inventory holders may be sorted and or organized by shipping destination shipping date shipping service or other appropriate factors. For example orders being shipped onto the same delivery truck may be associated. Accordingly mobile drive units may form groups of connected inventory holders at shipping station . Groups may include orders that are associated based on any of the above factors.

Inventory station represents any stations at which task related to fulfilling orders take place. At inventory stations inventory items may be picked or placed in the containers and placed on inventory holders . Inventory stations may include appropriate equipment to instruct an operator to remove a particular inventory item from inventory holder and place the inventory item into a container and place into another inventory holder . In some embodiments inventory station may interface with conveyance equipment capable of transporting containers to shipping station for shipment. Additionally or alternatively containers may be transported by mobile drive units to shipping station for shipment. Thus when a particular order is complete its associated container may be removed from an inventory holder and placed onto conveyance for delivery to shipping station . In addition or in the alternative mobile drive unit may move inventory holder away from inventory station and transport inventory holder to shipping station . Moreover it should be noted that while a particular configuration of workspace is illustrated workspace may include any number and combination of stations such as shipping stations and inventory stations .

Workspace represents an area associated with inventory system in which mobile drive units can move and or inventory holders can be stored. For example workspace may represent all or part of the floor of a mail order warehouse in which inventory system operates. Although shows for the purposes of illustration an embodiment of inventory system in which workspace includes a fixed predetermined and finite physical space particular embodiments of inventory system may include mobile drive units and inventory holders that are configured to operate within a workspace that is of variable dimensions and or an arbitrary geometry. While illustrates a particular embodiment of inventory system in which workspace is entirely enclosed in a building alternative embodiments may utilize workspaces in which some or all of the workspace is located outdoors within a vehicle such as a cargo ship or otherwise unconstrained by any fixed structure. In some embodiments workspace may be equipped with an appropriate imaging system operable to monitor and or detect images of workspace . The imaging system may be mounted and or installed on any appropriate surfaces of workspace including ceilings walls and or floors. The imaging system may for example include any appropriate cameras photo detectors digital signal processors and other appropriate hardware software and controlling logic to monitor the position of various components within system . The imaging system may for example be a stereoscopic imaging system. The imaging system may in some embodiments be used in conjunction with and or in place of sensors of inventory holders to facilitate connection and forming of groups . For example the imaging system may transmit to management module and or mobile drive unit images and or information indicating the relative position and or proximity of two or more inventory holders . Based on that information mobile drive unit may determine when two or more inventory holders are close enough for connection and or may cause connection modules to be actuated. Such image data may additionally or alternatively be utilized by mobile drive units to correct paths and or align themselves with appropriate connection points when forming group .

Workspace may include multiple portions that are physically separated from one another including but not limited to separate floors rooms buildings and or portions divided in any other suitable manner. Mobile drive units may be configured to utilize alternative conveyance equipment such as vertical or horizontal conveyors trucks ferries gondolas escalators and or other appropriate equipment suitable to convey mobile drive units between separate portions of workspace .

Queue may include a plurality of queue spaces that represent portions of workspace associated with inventory station into which inventory holders may move or replace to await processing upon arrival at inventory station . Queue may be divided into a plurality of rows in which groups of connected inventory holders arranged in chains columns or in single file may await processing at inventory station . The spaces of the queue represent an area in which one or more mobile drive units inventory holders and or groups of connected inventory holders wait until the associated inventory station is ready to process a request or perform other tasks associated with the relevant component. In particular embodiments a particular queue may have a fixed number of queue spaces or queue rows. In some embodiments a particular queue may have a variable number of queue spaces and or rows determined based on the types of tasks to be completed at the associated inventory station a traffic metric or the associated inventory station whether or not that inventory station is designated for processing groups of inventory holders and or any other appropriate factors.

Vehicle represents any appropriate vehicle that may be utilized to transport inventory holders from one location to another. Vehicle may represent a trailer a box trailer a flatbed truck a train a cargo shipment container or any number of appropriate containers that are capable of being used to ship inventory holders. In some embodiments trailer may be equipped with a number of connection modules at various points along the wall of the vehicle such that the connection modules located on each inventory holder may lock those inventory holders or secure those inventory holders in to place for shipment. Vehicle may thus include an appropriate communication system operable to provide and or transmit information to inventory system . For example vehicle may be capable of informing management module of its arrival and or that it is ready to be loaded and or unloaded. Similarly vehicle may be capable of instructing inventory holders in vehicle to connect and or disconnect from appropriate portions of vehicle at appropriate times.

In operation management module may administer and coordinate various tasks within inventory system . Management module may issue instructions to mobile drive units to move individual inventory holders to form groups of connected inventory holders and or move groups of connected inventory holders from location to location within inventory system . For example management module may issue instructions to mobile drive units to retrieve an inventory holder and transport that inventory holder to an inventory station . Management module may determine to process an order at inventory station using a first inventory item stored by one inventory holder and a second inventory item stored by another inventory holder. Management module may select the first inventory holder and the second inventory holder for transportation to the inventory station . Management module may facilitate the assembly and disassembly of groups of connected inventory holders by issuing instructions to mobile drive units . Management module may instruct mobile drive unit to connect one inventory holder with a second inventory holder into a group and transport the group of connected inventory holders to inventory station . Group may be formed at any appropriate location within inventory system such as at inventory storage shipping station and or inventory stations . In some embodiments group may be formed at an end of queue for transportation to inventory station . Accordingly mobile drive units may manage a queue to inventory station by assembling groups of connected inventory holders moving the groups towards the inventory station when appropriate and removing inventory holders from the group after that inventory holder has been processed at inventory station . In the illustrated embodiment the two mobile drive units docked at each end of group may coordinate to transport group through the queue to inventory stations . After a particular inventory holder is processed at inventory station it may be disconnected from group and moved to another location within inventory system such as an inventory storage area.

Management module may determine whether that inventory holder should be formed into a group of connected inventory holders while waiting in queue of inventory station . As noted above this decision may be based on the processing and or throughput requirements of that inventory station and or the volume of orders and or items outstanding. If that inventory holder is selected for a group of connected inventory holders management module may instruct mobile drive unit to form a group with two or more inventory holders waiting in queue to inventory station . Various groups of connected inventory holders may await processing in queue to inventory station . Mobile drive units may manage queue by moving up various rows as appropriate and by moving groups along inventory station laterally until they reach a processing location. The processing location may be one or more locations at which items are removed from inventory holders for processing. After an inventory holder is processed the row may be moved so that the next inventory holder in the row can be processed. Once a particular row of inventory holders has been processed mobile drive units may move another group of inventory holders into that row and then successively move up the rows of inventory holders in queue . Management module once a last row becomes available may select another set of inventory holders to form a group within the last row of queue . A more detailed description of how mobile drive units may be used to manage a queue of groups of connected inventory holders is described below with respect to .

As orders are processed at inventory station containers holding completed orders may be placed onto inventory holder stationed at inventory station and or designated for receiving completed orders. Once such an inventory holder has received and or been filled with containers of completed orders mobile drive unit may be instructed to transport inventory holder to shipping station for shipment. Management module may determine to form groups of connected inventory holders at shipping station . Management module may form groups based on any appropriate factors including the time at which those orders are scheduled to be shipped and or the time at which a delivery vehicle is expected to arrive and or by which deliver vehicle inventory holders are expected to be shipped on. Based on such factors management module may select inventory holders to be formed into groups at shipping station . Management module may issue appropriate instructions to mobile drive units to assemble and or form groups of connected inventory holders . Once formed management module may wait until a trigger event is detected. For example an appropriate event may be the occurrence of a scheduled shipping time the arrival of a delivery truck and or any other appropriate trigger event. Once that trigger event is detected management module may instruct mobile drive units to move groups of inventory holders onto the appropriate vehicle . Vehicle may include portions to which connection modules may connect. In some embodiments vehicles may include connection modules . A more detailed description of loading a vehicle using connected group is discussed below with respect to .

From time to time shipments of new inventory items may arrive in vehicles at receiving station . Those shipments may include groups of connected inventory holders received from a remote location. Mobile drive units may then unload those groups from vehicles . Mobile drive units may for example form a communications session with the inventory holders in group and issue appropriate disconnect instructions such as releasing one or more clamping mechanisms and or braking mechanisms of inventory holders in group . Once unloaded from vehicle groups may be disassembled disconnected and inventory items from those inventory holders may be processed and or entered into inventory system and or those inventory holders may be placed into circulation. For example those inventory holders may be moved into inventory storage areas and or used to fulfill orders as appropriate within inventory system . Replacement inventory items may be received to be placed into inventory holders that are low or are depleted of inventory items. Replenished inventory holders which may be then transported back into inventory storage and or moved to inventory station to be processed into orders.

As another example of the use of groups of connected inventory holders management module may determine to transport large groups of inventory items from one place to another within inventory system . For example low volume and or unpopular or unused inventory items may typically be stored further away from inventory station while relatively more popular and or high volume items may be stored relatively closer to inventory station . In particular situations inventory item may be low in popularity at a particular time but be expected to rise drastically in popularity at some point in the near future. Accordingly for example in anticipation of a popular movie being released on DVD or an expected best selling book being released an example inventory system may store large quantities of that inventory item . Because the release date has not occurred however those inventory items may have a relatively low product velocity and or a product velocity of zero. Accordingly management module may determine to store such inventory items relatively far away from inventory station . Accordingly management module may in response to a trigger event such as the occurrence of a scheduled release date or a date designated for preparation of the scheduled release date management module may determine to move that group of inventory items closer to inventory station . Accordingly management module may determine to assemble a large group of inventory holders storing that inventory item so that those items can be moved in bulk. The large group may be arranged in any appropriate grid using for example any of the arrangements discussed above. It should be noted however that while a specific example of a bulk move is provided the teachings of the present disclosure apply to any situation that is appropriate for inventory system to move inventory holders in bulk.

In some embodiments management module may be capable of planning paths and or reserving portions of paths for inventory items that are irregularly shaped and or do not fit within the footprint of inventory holder . For example a kayak lumber or other irregular object may be too long for a particular inventory holder . Accordingly such items may take up the space normally required by several inventory holders . In such cases management module may designate that item as a virtual group of inventory holders and or may plan paths and reserve space for that inventory item as if it was a group of inventory holders . For example a kayak that takes up the length of three inventory holders may be treated as a group of three inventory holders arranged in a column.

As illustrated mobile drive units and or communicate an instruction for the inventory holders in the group being disconnected to disconnect from their adjacent connections. For example as illustrated inventory holder over mobile drive unit may disconnect from the inventory holder that is immediately above and to the sides of that inventory holder . Each of the inventory holders in that group from to would disconnect from the inventory holders to their sides as well and disconnect from the vehicle . Accordingly the subgroup formed by mobile drive units will be moved off the trailer and placed into the shipping station as well as the group formed by mobile drive units C and D.

At step management module may select a first inventory holder to be connected with another inventory holder to form group . Inventory holders may be selected for groups based on appropriate factors such as those discussed above. For example inventory holders may be selected for groups at queues based on those inventory holders storing inventory items that are requested for processing at inventory stations and or are requested to fill orders. Inventory holders may also be selected for groups based on determining to ship those inventory holders at shipping stations in vehicles capable of transporting groups of connected inventory holders . Inventory holders may also be selected based on determining that those inventory holders store inventory items that have and or are expected to increase in product velocity so that those inventory holders may be moved closer to inventory station for processing. Management module may also determine to move inventory holders containing inventory items that have decreased in popularity and or velocity further away from inventory station .

At step management module may then instruct mobile drive units to transport the first inventory holder to a first location. For example management module may instruct the mobile drive unit to transport the inventory holder to queue shipping station or any other appropriate location within inventory system . The first location may be the location of a group of inventory holders that have already been formed to which the first inventory holder is to be added and or the location of a second inventory holder to which first inventory holder will be connected to form group at the first location. When mobile drive unit docks with first inventory holder mobile drive unit may establish a communications session with connection module of inventory holder . The communications session may be utilized to determine status information regarding the connection module and or control its connection elements. Mobile drive unit may also be capable of receiving proximity information from connection module regarding a proximity of a second inventory holder to be connected to first inventory holder .

At step mobile drive unit may move the first inventory holder towards the second inventory holder at the first location. Second inventory holder may be the end of a chain of a group of inventory holders to which the first inventory holder is being added and or may be an individual inventory holder to which the group is being formed. At step Mobile drive unit may continue to move the first inventory holder towards the second inventory holder until it is in proximity to the second inventory holder . For example mobile drive unit may receive proximity information from connection module of first inventory holder regarding the proximity of second inventory holder . In response to proximity information indicating a proximity of second inventory holder mobile drive unit may take appropriate actions such as slowing down and or stopping. Mobile drive unit may for example utilize an appropriate control loop or other logic based control to gradually slow down as mobile drive unit nears second inventory holder . This may facilitate ensuring that the inventory holders come into proximity and or contact without causing a collision between the two inventory holders and or bumping into each other at a rate of speed that is above an amount calculated to be too high.

Once the first inventory holder has closed to within a predetermined distance to the second inventory holder and or is in contact with the second inventory holder mobile drive unit may at step instruct first inventory holder to connect to second inventory holder . For example mobile drive unit may receive a signal or other information from sensor of connection module indicating that the first inventory holder is within a predetermined distance to and or is in contact with the second inventory holder . In response to receiving such an indication mobile drive unit instructs first inventory holder to connect second inventory holder . In some embodiments mobile drive unit may communicate an activation signal or other information to connection module of first inventory holder that causes it to engage its connection elements onto a connection module of second inventory holder . Additionally or alternatively mobile drive unit may establish a communications session with a second connection module of the second inventory holder . Mobile drive unit and or the first connection module may then instruct the second connection module to connect its connection elements to the first connection module . Accordingly first inventory holder may establish a communications session with the second inventory holder s connection module which may then instruct the connection elements of second inventory holder to engage onto the connection elements of the connection module of the first inventory holder . Thus connecting inventory holders may include interconnection of each inventory holder onto the other.

At step management module may determine whether to add additional inventory holders to group . For example management module may determine to form a group of any appropriate size and or pattern. As another example group of inventory holders may eventually decrease in size as it is processed at inventory station . Management module may determine to add other inventory holders to such a group . In some embodiments management module may determine to create a group of a particular size in response to any of the factors discussed above regarding the capacity weight torque and or power capabilities of various mobile drive units . Management module may also determine to change the size of one or more groups in response to dynamic changes made to the length of queue . For example management module may dynamically adjust the length of queue based on order backlogs and or the throughput requirements inventory system or any other appropriate factor. Management module may make corresponding changes to the sizes of groups in queue and or may determine not to form such groups at all instead determining to send individual inventory holders transported by mobile drive units through queue .

If any additional inventory holders are to be added to group management module may at step instruct mobile drive units to connect additional inventory holders to group . Once group is at the desired size and or configuration management module may instruct one or more mobile drive units to transport group of connected inventory holders to a second location within inventory system . For example management module may instruct mobile drive units to manage queue associated with inventory station . Mobile drive units may thus transport groups of inventory holders through queue at inventory station . As another example mobile drive units may transport group and move them onto a vehicle for transportation to another facility or remote destination. After step the method ends. Management module may determine an appropriate number of mobile drive units to transport group based on its size weight power capabilities of mobile drive units and or other factors as discussed above. If for example management module assigns tasks for more than one mobile drive unit to transport a particular group those mobile drive units may coordinate to transport group as discussed above. After mobile drive units transports group to the second location method ends.

If no space is available management module may determine to send those inventory holders to a drift location or other intermediate location that is on its way to inventory station and or choose to wait to process those orders until a space becomes available. Additionally or alternatively management module may determine to increase the size of queue if the number of orders and or items to be processed is above a predetermined threshold.

At step once space is available management module may select inventory holders storing the desired inventory items to be processed at inventory station . Management module may then instruct mobile drive units to transport those inventory holders to inventory station for processing.

At step management module may then instruct first mobile drive unit to transport a selected inventory holder to queue . In some embodiments management module may instruct multiple mobile drive units to move multiple selected inventory holders to queue . At step management module may determine whether to form groups of connected inventory holders at queue . For example management module may determine to form groups if the size of queue is above a predetermined threshold if a selected inventory station is designated to have a queue with groups or any other appropriate factor. As another example management module may determine to form a group based on the throughput requirements of inventory station and or the volume of orders that need to be processed within inventory system based on the particular capabilities of inventory station and or any other number and combination of appropriate factors. If at step management module determines to form a group of connected inventory holders management module may proceed to step .

At step management module determines to form one or more groups of connected inventory holders management module may provide appropriate instructions to one or more first mobile drive units to form those groups . For example management module may instruct first mobile drive units to form multiple groups that are formed into single file columns and or chains of inventory holders . Those single file columns and or chains of inventory holders may each be configured and or designated to occupy a particular row of queue . Those groups may be formed using any of the techniques discussed above.

At steps and first mobile drive units may be instructed to complete other tasks while second mobile drive units are instructed to manage queue . For example second mobile drive units may be designated for managing queue while first mobile drive units are designated for transporting inventory holders from inventory storage to queue . Because groups of connected inventory holders need not have individual mobile drive units for each inventory holder fewer mobile drive units may be required to manage queue . Thus mobile drive units transporting inventory holders to queue need not remain with that inventory holder as it progresses through the queue. It should be noted however that certain of first mobile drive units may remain to manage the queue and or management module may change the second mobile drive units designated to manage queue as appropriate.

If management module determines not to form groups management module may at step instruct first mobile drive units to move through queue transporting individual inventory holders .

At step inventory items may be processed at one or more processing locations of inventory station . For example the first inventory holder in the queue may be processed and or inventory items may be removed from that inventory holder and placed in an appropriate container associated with an order. As items are processed second mobile drive units may move groups of connected inventory holders through the queue . For example second mobile drive units may use similar techniques as discussed above with respect to . At step processed inventory holders may be removed from the queue and or their respective groups and transported to other portions of inventory system . For example an inventory holder may be disconnected from group and or transported away by another mobile drive unit to inventory storage .

As groups are moved through queue and inventory holders are removed from queue after processing additional locations in queue may become available. Management modules may then at step determine whether to process additional orders in queue . If there are more process orders in the queue to be processed at step the method may return to step at which management module may determine whether there is space available in queue for those inventory holders to be processed. After step method ends.

Modifications additions or omissions may be made to method illustrated in the flowcharts of . For example management module may be capable of assigning many tasks at once and or in parallel. Thus management module may also process many orders in parallel and or in sequence. Moreover management module may be capable of fulfilling orders for any number and types of inventory facilities. Orders corresponding to various of those facilities may be processed by management module sequentially and or at the same time using various inventory stations . Additionally the steps of may be performed in parallel or in any suitable order. Moreover the embodiments described with respect to the present disclosure are expected be fully combinable and suitable for use in appropriate embodiments described herein.

This disclosure contemplates any suitable number of computer systems . This disclosure contemplates computer system taking any suitable physical form. As example and not by way of limitation computer system may be an embedded computer system a system on chip SOC a single board computer system SBC such as for example a computer on module COM or system on module SOM a desktop computer system a laptop or notebook computer system an interactive kiosk a mainframe a mesh of computer systems a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a server a tablet computer system or a combination of two or more of these. Where appropriate computer system may include one or more computer systems be unitary or distributed span multiple locations span multiple machines span multiple datacenters or reside in a cloud which may include one or more cloud components in one or more networks. Where appropriate one or more computer systems may perform without substantial spatial or temporal limitation one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. As an example and not by way of limitation one or more computer systems may perform in real time or in batch mode one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. One or more computer systems may perform at different times or at different locations one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein where appropriate.

In particular embodiments computer system includes a processor memory storage an input output I O interface a communication interface and a bus . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular computer system having a particular number of particular components in a particular arrangement this disclosure contemplates any suitable computer system having any suitable number of any suitable components in any suitable arrangement.

In particular embodiments processor includes hardware for executing instructions such as those making up a computer program. As an example and not by way of limitation to execute instructions processor may retrieve or fetch the instructions from an internal register an internal cache memory or storage decode and execute them and then write one or more results to an internal register an internal cache memory or storage . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal caches for data instructions or addresses. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular processor this disclosure contemplates any suitable processor.

In particular embodiments memory includes main memory for storing instructions for processor to execute or data for processor to operate on. In certain embodiments memory may be memory includes in any of the system components discussed above such as management module and or mobile drive units . As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may load instructions from storage or another source such as for example another computer system to memory . Processor may then load the instructions from memory to an internal register or internal cache. To execute the instructions processor may retrieve the instructions from the internal register or internal cache and decode them. During or after execution of the instructions processor may write one or more results which may be intermediate or final results to the internal register or internal cache. Processor may then write one or more of those results to memory . In particular embodiments processor executes only instructions in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere and operates only on data in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere . One or more memory buses which may each include an address bus and a data bus may couple processor to memory . Bus may include one or more memory buses as described below. In particular embodiments one or more memory management units MMUs reside between processor and memory and facilitate accesses to memory requested by processor . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular memory this disclosure contemplates any suitable memory.

In particular embodiments storage includes mass storage for data or instructions. In certain embodiments storage may be included in any appropriate component of system including management module and or mobile drive units . Storage may include removable or non removable i.e. fixed media where appropriate. Storage may be internal or external to computer system where appropriate. In particular embodiments storage is non volatile solid state memory. Where appropriate storage may include one or more storages . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular storage this disclosure contemplates any suitable storage.

In particular embodiments I O interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication between computer system and one or more I O devices. Computer system may include one or more of these I O devices where appropriate. One or more of these I O devices may enable communication between a person and computer system . As an example and not by way of limitation an I O device may include a keyboard keypad microphone monitor mouse printer scanner speaker still camera stylus tablet touchscreen trackball video camera another suitable I O device or a combination of two or more of these. An I O device may include one or more sensors. This disclosure contemplates any suitable I O devices and any suitable I O interfaces for them. Where appropriate I O interface may include one or more device or software drivers enabling processor to drive one or more of these I O devices. I O interface may include one or more I O interfaces where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular I O interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable I O interface.

In particular embodiments communication interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication such as for example packet based communication between computer system and one or more other computer systems or one or more networks. As an example and not by way of limitation communication interface may include a network interface controller NIC or network adapter for communicating with an Ethernet or other wire based network or a wireless NIC WNIC or wireless adapter for communicating with a wireless network such as a Wi Fi network. This disclosure contemplates any suitable network and any suitable communication interface for it. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular communication interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable communication interface.

In particular embodiments bus includes hardware software or both coupling components of computer system to each other. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular bus this disclosure contemplates any suitable bus or interconnect.

Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium encompasses one or more non transitory tangible computer readable storage media possessing structure. As an example and not by way of limitation a computer readable storage medium may include a semiconductor based or other integrated circuit IC such as for example a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific IC ASIC a hard disk an HDD a hybrid hard drive HHD an optical disc an optical disc drive ODD a magneto optical disc a magneto optical drive a floppy disk a floppy disk drive FDD magnetic tape a holographic storage medium a solid state drive SSD a RAM drive a SECURE DIGITAL card a SECURE DIGITAL drive or another suitable computer readable storage medium or a combination of two or more of these where appropriate. A computer readable non transitory storage medium may be volatile non volatile or a combination of volatile and non volatile where appropriate.

This disclosure contemplates one or more computer readable storage media implementing any suitable storage. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements one or more portions of processor such as for example one or more internal registers or caches one or more portions of memory one or more portions of storage or a combination of these where appropriate. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements RAM or ROM. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements volatile or persistent memory. In particular embodiments one or more computer readable storage media embody software. Herein reference to software may encompass one or more applications bytecode one or more computer programs one or more executables one or more instructions logic machine code one or more scripts or source code and vice versa where appropriate. In particular embodiments software includes one or more application programming interfaces APIs . This disclosure contemplates any suitable software written or otherwise expressed in any suitable programming language or combination of programming languages. In particular embodiments software is expressed as source code or object code.

Herein or is inclusive and not exclusive unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore herein A or B means A B or both unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Moreover and is both joint and several unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore herein A and B means A and B jointly or severally unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context.

This disclosure encompasses all changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications to the example embodiments herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. Similarly where appropriate the appended claims encompass all changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications to the example embodiments herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. Moreover reference in the appended claims to an apparatus or system or a component of an apparatus or system being adapted to arranged to capable of configured to enabled to operable to or operative to perform a particular function encompasses that apparatus system component whether or not it or that particular function is activated turned on or unlocked as long as that apparatus system or component is so adapted arranged capable configured enabled operable or operative.

Any of the steps operations or processes described herein may be performed or implemented with one or more hardware or software modules alone or in combination with other devices. In one embodiment a software module is implemented with a computer program product comprising a computer readable medium containing computer program code which can be executed by a computer processor for performing any or all of the steps operations or processes described.

Embodiments of the invention may also relate to an apparatus for performing the operations herein. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purposes and or it may comprise a general purpose computing device selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored in the computer. Such a computer program may be stored in a tangible computer readable storage medium or any type of media suitable for storing electronic instructions and coupled to a computer system bus. Furthermore any computing systems referred to in the specification may include a single processor or may be architectures employing multiple processor designs for increased computing capability.

While particular embodiments of inventory system are illustrated it should be appreciated that the teaching of the present disclosure may be applied to any type and number of inventory systems. For example inventory system may represent a merchandise return facility. In such an embodiment inventory items may represent merchandise returned by customers. Units of these inventory items may be stored in inventory holders when received at the facility. At appropriate times a large number of units may be removed from a particular inventory holder and packed for shipment back to a warehouse or other facility. In some embodiments inventory system may include a global positioning system GPS by which the location of the various components of system are tracked by management module . In such embodiments connection module may include a GPS device operable to report location information to management module and or mobile drive units .

As yet another example inventory system may represent a manufacturing facility with inventory items representing individual components of a manufacturing kit to be included in an assembled product such as electronic components for a customized computer system. In such an embodiment inventory system may retrieve particular components identified by a specification associated with an order for the product so that a customized version of the product can be built. Although a number of example embodiments are described inventory system may in general represent any suitable facility or system for storing and processing inventory items. Similarly inventory items may represent objects of any type suitable for storage retrieval and or processing in a particular inventory system .

Additionally management module may represent a single component multiple components located at a central location within inventory system and or multiple components distributed throughout inventory system . For example management module may represent components of one or more mobile drive units that are capable of communicating information between the mobile drive units and coordinating movement of mobile drive units in transporting inventory holders . In general management module may include any appropriate combination of hardware and or software suitable to provide the described functionality and may further include components located on mobile drive units stations or other elements of inventory system .

Furthermore as noted above management module may include components of individual mobile drive units . Thus for the purposes of this description communication between management module and a particular mobile drive unit may represent communication between components of a particular mobile drive unit . In general mobile drive units may be powered controlled and propelled in any manner appropriate based on the configuration and characteristics of inventory system .

It should also be noted that the various components of inventory system complete various operations involving inventory items and or the components of inventory system themselves. Management module manages the operation of components and the use of various system resources to facilitate the fulfillment of these tasks. Although the description above focuses on various embodiments of inventory system capable of performing specific operations a particular embodiment of inventory system may be configured to perform any appropriate operations associated with the storage processing transport or removal of inventory items .

Although the present invention has been described with several embodiments a myriad of changes variations alterations transformations and modifications may be suggested to one skilled in the art and it is intended that the present invention encompass such changes variations alterations transformations and modifications as fall within the scope of the appended claims. Moreover while the present disclosure has been described with respect to various embodiments it is fully expected that the teachings of the present disclosure may be combined in a single embodiment as appropriate.

