---

title: Application interface for tracking player identity
abstract: Systems and method for providing a single sign in a gaming console that associates online activity that is out-of-game/cross game, and/or online activity that is in-game, and/or activity that is offline and in-game with that account. While online, a service tracks activity of gamers and provides usage statistics in a profile. While offline, the game console tracks the player's activity via a mechanism to collect detailed information about a specific player's in-game statistics and accomplishments. The offline activity is cached and uploaded when the console connects to the online service. Players can accumulate achievements offline that are credited towards online activities.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09144741&OS=09144741&RS=09144741
owner: MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING, LLC
number: 09144741
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130731
---
The present application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 535 151 filed Jun. 27 2012 entitled APPLICATION INTERFACE FOR TRACKING PLAYER IDENTITY which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 916 246 filed Oct. 29 2010 entitled UBIQUITOUS UNIFIED PLAYER IDENTITY TRACKING SYSTEM now U.S. Pat. No. 8 235 818 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 578 605 filed on Oct. 14 2009 entitled UBIQUITOUS UNIFIED PLAYER IDENTITY TRACKING SYSTEM now U.S. Pat. No. 7 837 561 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 006 275 filed on Dec. 7 2004 entitled UBIQUITOUS UNIFIED PLAYER IDENTITY TRACKING SYSTEM now U.S. Pat. No. 7 621 813 the entire contents of each of which is hereby incorporated by reference.

A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material which is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent files or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever. The following notice applies to the software and data as described below and in the drawings hereto Copyright 2004 Microsoft Corporation All Rights Reserved.

This invention generally relates to the field of gaming and multimedia devices. In particular the present invention is directed to a system and method of creating and tracking unique gaming identity across multiple contexts.

Conventional gaming systems include a concept of unique identity which was intended to increase player satisfaction and create a sense of community. However while the conventional unique identity does minimize the effort required to play online the unique identity failed to accomplish these goals. One reason for this problem is that multiple players often share an identity because there is no easy way for multiple players to identify themselves on a shared gaming device. This creates confusion as a player using a particular identity during an online gaming session may not be the same player in the next session or from the previous session.

Further conventional identities have failed to provide a method for conveying information about players other than a limited set of game achievements and fail to convey information about offline achievements. Thus it is difficult to learn more about a player through the conventional unique identity. Therefore there is a need for a unique identity that is rich and includes information from both offline and online contexts. The present invention provides such a solution.

The present invention is direct to a systems and methods for providing a single sign in a gaming console that associates online activity that is out of game cross game and or online activity that is in game and or activity that is offline and in game with that account. While online a service tracks activity of gamers and provides usage statistics in a profile. While offline the game console tracks the player s activity via a mechanism to collect detailed information about a specific player s in game statistics and accomplishments. The offline activity is cached and uploaded when the console connects to the online service. Players can accumulate achievements offline that are credited towards online activities. In addition to learning about other players the present invention allows all players online and offline to personalize their gaming experience by specifying global settings such as controller vibration that apply to all games on the system. This eliminates the need to customize each game individually.

In accordance with an aspect of the invention there is provided a method of providing a unique player identity that extends across multiple contexts. The method includes providing a sign in mechanism where users access the gaming console via a profile associated with the unique player identity storing settings in accordance with the profile associating the profile with an offline account tracking user activity within the offline account and attributing the user activity to the profile.

In accordance with a feature of the invention an in game profile may be associated with the profile. Settings may be applied in accordance with the in game profile to game preferences and controllers

In accordance with another feature an online service may be associated with the profile. Online user activity may be tracked and attributed to the profile. Further offline user activity may be cached and synchronizing to the profile such that the profile reflects both the offline and the online user activity.

In accordance with another aspect of the invention a system for providing a unique player identity that extends across multiple contexts is made available. The system includes an online service that tracks online player activity in a profile associated with the unique player identity and a gaming console that tracks offline player activity in the profile. The console provides a sign in mechanism wherein users access the gaming console via the profile and settings and preferences are stored in the profile.

Additional features and advantages of the invention will be made apparent from the following detailed description of illustrative embodiments that proceeds with reference to the accompanying drawings.

A graphics processing unit GPU and a video encoder video codec coder decoder form a video processing pipeline for high speed and high resolution graphics processing. Data is carried from the graphics processing unit to the video encoder video codec via a bus. The video processing pipeline outputs data to an A V audio video port for transmission to a television or other display. A memory controller is connected to the GPU to facilitate processor access to various types of memory such as but not limited to a RAM Random Access Memory .

The multimedia console includes an I O controller a system management controller an audio processing unit a network interface controller a first USB host controller a second USB controller and a front panel I O subassembly that are preferably implemented on a module . The USB controllers and serve as hosts for peripheral controllers a wireless adapter and an external memory device e.g. flash memory external CD DVD ROM drive removable media etc. . The network interface and or wireless adapter provide access to a network e.g. the Internet home network etc. and may be any of a wide variety of various wired or wireless adapter components including an Ethernet card a modem a Bluetooth module a cable modem and the like.

System memory is provided to store application data that is loaded during the boot process. A media drive is provided and may comprise a DVD CD drive hard drive or other removable media drive etc. The media drive may be internal or external to the multimedia console . Application data may be accessed via the media drive for execution playback etc. by the multimedia console . The media drive is connected to the I O controller via a bus such as a Serial ATA bus or other high speed connection e.g. IEEE 1394 .

The system management controller provides a variety of service functions related to assuring availability of the multimedia console . The audio processing unit and an audio codec form a corresponding audio processing pipeline with high fidelity and stereo processing. Audio data is carried between the audio processing unit and the audio codec via a communication link. The audio processing pipeline outputs data to the A V port for reproduction by an external audio player or device having audio capabilities.

The front panel I O subassembly supports the functionality of the power button and the eject button as well as any LEDs light emitting diodes or other indicators exposed on the outer surface of the multimedia console . A system power supply module provides power to the components of the multimedia console . A fan cools the circuitry within the multimedia console .

The CPU GPU memory controller and various other components within the multimedia console are interconnected via one or more buses including serial and parallel buses a memory bus a peripheral bus and a processor or local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. By way of example such architectures can include a Peripheral Component Interconnects PCI bus PCI Express bus etc.

When the multimedia console is powered ON application data may be loaded from the system memory into memory and or caches and executed on the CPU . The application may present a graphical user interface that provides a consistent user experience when navigating to different media types available on the multimedia console . In operation applications and or other media contained within the media drive may be launched or played from the media drive to provide additional functionalities to the multimedia console .

The multimedia console may be operated as a standalone system by simply connecting the system to a television or other display. In this standalone mode the multimedia console allows one or more users to interact with the system watch movies or listen to music. However with the integration of broadband connectivity made available through the network interface or the wireless adapter the multimedia console may further be operated as a participant in a larger network community.

When the multimedia console is powered ON a set amount of hardware resources are reserved for system use by the multimedia console operating system. These resources may include a reservation of memory e.g. 16 MB CPU and GPU cycles e.g. 5 networking bandwidth e.g. 8 kbs etc. Because these resources are reserved at system boot time the reserved resources do not exist from the application s view.

In particular the memory reservation preferably is large enough to contain the launch kernel concurrent system applications and drivers. The CPU reservation is preferably constant such that if the reserved CPU usage is not used by the system applications an idle thread will consume any unused cycles.

With regard to the GPU reservation lightweight messages generated by the system applications e.g. popups are displayed by using a GPU interrupt to schedule code to render popup into an overlay. The amount of memory required for an overlay depends on the overlay area size and the overlay preferably scales with screen resolution. Where a full user interface is used by the concurrent system application it is preferable to use a resolution independent of application resolution. A scaler may be used to set this resolution such that the need to change frequency and cause a TV resynch is eliminated.

After the multimedia console boots and system resources are reserved concurrent system applications execute to provide system functionalities. The system functionalities are encapsulated in a set of system applications that execute within the reserved system resources described above. The operating system kernel identifies threads that are system application threads versus gaming application threads. The system applications are preferably scheduled to run on the CPU at predetermined times and intervals in order to provide a consistent system resource view to the application. The scheduling is to minimize cache disruption for the gaming application running on the console.

When a concurrent system application requires audio audio processing is scheduled asynchronously to the gaming application due to time sensitivity. A multimedia console application manager described below controls the gaming application audio level e.g. mute attenuate when system applications are active.

Input devices e.g. controllers and are shared by gaming applications and system applications. The input devices are not reserved resources but are to be switched between system applications and the gaming application such that each will have a focus of the device. The application manager preferably controls the switching of input stream without knowledge the gaming application s knowledge and a driver maintains state information regarding focus switches.

The present invention is directed to a Gamer Profile which serves as a building block for services and applications that aim to create a social community of gamers and grow relationships among players. In accordance with the present invention the Gamer Profile is the entirety of information e.g. metadata related to a specific user i.e. the gamer s digital identity . The Gamer Profile is developed from a set of services that collect and expose this information in a meaningful way to the community. The Gamer Profile also provides for personalization such that users can customize and enhance their gaming experience. As will be discussed in greater detail below the Gamer Profile consists of various components including but not limited to a Gamercard game achievements and gamer preferences.

Referring to there is illustrated an overview of an exemplary architecture that may be used to implement the Gamer Profile. The console interacts with a remote service that provides services such as voice chat a friends list matchmaking content download roaming feedback tournaments voice messaging and updates to gamers. The service also maintains the Gamer Profiles in a profile database and configuration data used by the services and games . The service collects Gamer Profiles aggregates processes information supplied by other services and fulfills real time client requests for retrieving Gamer Profile related services. The Gamer Profiles in the database are also used by the games to enable among other things personalization and customization etc.

Using the console the user may interact with a guide . The guide provides an interface where the user may navigate to and enter various online areas and options provided by the service . The configuration data stored by the service may be used to determine features and options provided by the guide . When the game is running a defined set of APIs are used to call and interact with the services . When requesting Gamer Profile information via the APIs the game may pass a unique identifier of a user. The service may return a Gamercard discussed below game stats game achievements affiliations game settings. etc. Additional details of the various aspects of the exemplary architecture are provided below.

Referring to the Gamer Profile is created when a user creates a profile selected from the guide and chooses his her unique Gamertag a user s unique name tile picture avatar associated with the user other options during an account sign up phase. From there a base Gamer Profile is created. The Gamer Profile may then be populated from several sources. For example the Gamer Profile may include self described data from the Gamer Profile owner. Other gamers can provide feedback regarding the Gamer Profile owner. The service may track the gamer s online and offline activity. In addition the games may report the gamer s statistics and game achievements.

The owner of Gamer Profile can edit his her Gamer Profile directly and control who can view each section of the Gamer Profile. The Gamer Profile may be edited via general fields e.g. tile country language gender greeting etc. and or system settings e.g. voice output controller vibration character name game format game mode etc. . Privacy Opt out Settings can be tuned for the Gamer Profile to e.g. restrict presence information only to friends allow game achievements to be visible to all etc.

The Gamer Profile may include feedback provided by other players . Feedback helps others learn about a particular gamer. For example if the gamer uses foul language or aggressive play in game sessions other gamers may submit feedback to the service . The feedback mechanism improves the user experience by building reputations. Players are therefore anonymous but not unknown because of the accumulated feedback.

As noted above the Gamer Profile may be used for customization and preference setting on a global level as well as a per game level. Gamer preferences aid games in choosing defaults for common settings such as game profile name controller inversion and controller vibration etc. For example if a gamer likes using an inverted controller this preference will be used for new titles as they are played. Games have access to Gamer Profiles via the database and services . In addition game usage data can be mined to tune the game to the user s particular preferences and game features updated after the initial game launch.

In another aspect of the invention a unified sign in is provided as part of a ubiquitous identity that extends across multiple contexts thus enabling a consistent player identity offline and online. Referring to there are illustrated the contexts over which the present invention operates offline online out of game cross game and in game which represents a convention console environment. The unified sign in combined with a mechanism for tracking offline player activity advantageously eliminates the problems in conventional consoles where players must juggle between profiles and accounts sharing them with other players and are unable to accumulated game achievements while playing offline.

In addition the present invention allows a player to create the in game profile such that default options and information e.g. name controller settings etc. are automatically set. The in game profiles may be automatically associated with offline accounts so each time a player plays a game the profile is selected based on the offline account. This minimizes the configuring and tweaking necessary for a player to get started in a new game or to continue in an old game after signing in.

In accordance with the present invention a player may sign in under a single account that associates online activity that is out of game cross game and or online activity that is in game and or activity that is offline and in game with that account and or offline out of game use. While online the service games and console track activity of gamers and provide usage statistics in the Gamer Profile . While offline the game console and games track the gamer s activity via a mechanism for instrumenting games to collect detailed information about a specific player s in game statistics and accomplishments.

The offline mechanism of the present invention provides several functionalities. The first is caching and uploading achievements when an offline account is enabled for an online account with the service . This allows players who have been using their offline accounts to upload achievements collected offline to their Gamer Profile . This way players can accumulate achievements offline that are credited towards online activities e.g. tournaments etc. that require high levels of achievements. The second functionality is caching and uploading achievements after playing offline. Players can play games on the console anywhere any time and the statistics and achievements are updated to the service to reflect the play. This functionality also operates for new games that have yet to be played online. The Gamer Profile is updated during the next connection to the service to reflect the offline play.

A third functionality of the offline mechanism is caching and uploading achievements after a connectivity failure e.g. an offline synchronization . At first players may be hesitant to use a wireless router for online play because of dropped connections. Because the present invention caches the statistics during transient connectivity problems achievements are updated online even if there are network problems. Additional functionalities may include viewing offline achievements when signed in online or while offline etc.

The process for creating and using a single sign in and offline accounts will now be described. Referring to the first time a player plays on the console she may select to create a new offline or online profile. If the user selects an offline profile the new user may create an account using a GamerTag whereby default settings are applied. After the offline account is created in game profiles game saves and game achievements are organized and associated with the account. She may also choose default game settings such as vibration OFF and inverter controls ON at this time.

When players sign up for an online account with the service using the interface of it may be possible that the GamerTag they selected for their offline account is already taken. Therefore they must change their GamerTag for the new online account. If they accept the change the offline account GamerTag renamed to the new GamerTag. Any accumulated offline achievements will be credited to the new online account so experienced players do not have to start over to show others online that they are worthy players.

After an account is created e.g. OKO the user may select the account as the default. The console may automatically sign in the user when the game boots and provide a pop up message such as Welcome back OKO Press a button to sign in somebody else require the user to select the default account as shown in or provide a list of profiles to select from . After the user signs in a main screen may be shown that allows the user to select information related to the profile gaming play or other options. In the context of a racing game statistics such as total points mileage hours driven license unlocks may be shown after the profile is selected.

The offline account may be stored on the memory unit so may be transported from one console to another. This is advantageous for example if the player would like to play in a local tournament where she can bring her memory unit with her offline account and in game profile on it. Since the player has most likely spent a great amount of time tweaking the profile it is preferable to bring the memory unit rather than re create the profile.

Players should be notified if a memory unit is not available so game play statistics and settings are not lost. Referring to there is illustrated exemplary user interfaces on the console that reflect this condition. If the user begins game play without signing in the main screen displays a message under the career statistics that the user is not signed in and the user is warned when powering off the console that all changes will be lost .

While the present invention has been described in connection with the preferred embodiments of the various Figs. it is to be understood that other similar embodiments may be used or modifications and additions may be made to the described embodiment for performing the same function of the present invention without deviating therefrom.

