---

title: Training program and music playlist generation for athletic training
abstract: Systems and techniques for generating an athletic training program and selecting music for playing during the training program are described. Based on specified parameters, a training program module may generate a customized training program intended to help an athlete reach a goal. In conjunction therewith or independently thereof, a music selection module may generate a music playlist for playing during a training program. Music selection parameters may include training intensity, user speed, user location, user mood, a user's currently performance (e.g., as compared to an expected performance) and the like. The music selection module may select songs from a personal library or a public database of music. Music selection may be made to maximize user motivation/inspiration.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08858400&OS=08858400&RS=08858400
owner: NIKE, Inc.
number: 08858400
owner_city: Beaverton
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131003
---
This application is a divisional application of and claims the benefit of priority from U.S. Non Provisional patent application Ser. No. 12 768 168 filed Apr. 27 2010 which claims priority from U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 172 990 filed Apr. 27 2009 and entitled Training Program and Music Playlist Generation for Athletic Training and U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 183 172 filed Jun. 2 2009 and entitled Training Program and Music Playlist Generation for Athletic Training The content of the aforementioned applications are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

The present invention relates to generating a training schedule and the selection of music in association therewith.

While most people appreciate the importance of physical fitness many have difficulty determining an appropriate exercise program for reaching their desired goal. Further some people find it difficult to maintain an exercise regimen without some entertainment such as music to keep them motivated through the exercise program.

Athletes have found that listening to music while running may improve the athlete s endurance and enjoyment of the physical activity. In particular some types of music may be more beneficial to increasing the athletic activity of an individual than others. For example music with fast tempos may encourage an athlete to run faster or farther. The use of music may help distract athletes from what might otherwise be viewed as tedious and repetitive physical activity.

Various aspects of the invention relate to the collection and display of athletic information. With some implementations of the invention athletic data relating to a single person is collected and displayed so that the person can fully critique his or her performance. For example a set of athletic data corresponding to athletic activity performed by a person over a first time period may be displayed as a graph. If the set of athletic data is generated from e.g. a person running or walking then the person s speed may be plotted against his or her distance over the time period for the activity. With some implementations the set of athletic data can be analyzed and the analysis results can be displayed simultaneously with the graph. For example with a set of athletic data obtained from a person running the data can be analyzed to determine the change in speed i.e. acceleration or deceleration between fixed distances first mile second mile etc. . This information can then be displayed with the graph so that the person can review when and how much he or she changed speed during the run.

With still other implementations of the invention a person can compare a set of athletic data with another set of athletic data having a desired characteristic. For example if a selected set of athletic data is generated from e.g. a person running over a particular time period then the person may wish to compare his or her performance for that run with his or her best speed for a similar previous run. Thus if the run covered a distance of e.g. 4 miles earlier sets of athletic data will be analyzed to determine which data sets correspond to runs of approximately 4 miles. The data set having e.g. the highest mean speed can then be identified and data from that previously data set displayed simultaneously with data from the selected data set. For example data from each athletic data set may be plotted as graph and rendered on a display. The person can then compare the selected set of athletic data with the set of athletic data representing his or her best speed in detail.

Still further some implementations may collect sets of athletic data obtained over different time periods and concurrently display data from these sets. Thus if a person has multiple runs over a period of days data from each run may be simultaneously displayed. For example an icon such as a bar or line can be displayed for each data set. A dimension of the icon such as e.g. its height can then correspond to some data in that data set such as the median speed of the run or the total distance traveled over the run. With some implementations data from multiple sets may be aggregated and displayed. For examples runs falling within a specified category e.g. occurring during the same week or month can be grouped together and the total distance data or alternatively the total time data for each data set in a group can be added together. An icon such as a bar or line then can be displayed to represent the sum of the data from each group. A dimension of the icon such as e.g. its height may correspond to the data added together from its corresponding group of data sets.

In addition some examples of the invention may allow a person to specify a goal related to an athletic activity. A person may e.g. set a goal of running a specified total distance within a specified period of time. With these implementations of the invention data from multiple sets of a person s athletic data may be aggregated and displayed in contrast with the person s specified goal. The goal may be displayed for example as an empty shape like an oval. The aggregated data may then be displayed as fill within the empty shape. Thus if the aggregated data shows that the person is within 80 of his or her goal then the shape representing the goal will be displayed as 80 filled.

With some implementations sets of athletic data may be obtained from a plurality of different persons and displayed. For example one or more sets of data from each of a plurality of different persons may be collected. Data from each person s data sets can then be aggregated and displayed to each person. For example a set of athletic data can be generated for each run a person makes. For each person data from his or her data sets such as distance data can be added up. An icon such as a bar or line can then be displayed for each person to represent the sum of the data from his or her data sets. A dimension of the icon such as e.g. its height may correspond to the sum of the data added from each of a person s data sets.

Still further some examples of the invention may allow a person to invite one or more other persons to share athletic data corresponding to their athletic activities. With some implementations of the invention for example a user may send an invitation via electronic mail or a similar electronic medium to one or more other persons. Athletic data from only those invited persons may then be displayed simultaneously as noted above. This arrangement allows each invited person including the inviting host who inherently invites himself or herself and thus is considered an invitee as well to compare his or her current athletic data with the other invitees.

With still other implementations of the invention a person may alternately or additional specify a common goal for the invitees. For example the inviting host may specify a total combined distance that the invitees including the host are to run within a specified amount of time. Data from multiple sets of athletic data for each invitee may be aggregated and displayed in contrast with the person s specified goal. Again the goal may be represented by the display of for example an empty shape like an oval. The data aggregated from each invitee may then be displayed as fill within the empty shape. Thus if the aggregated data shows that the collective athletic activity of the invitees is within 60 of the specified goal then the shape representing the goal will be displayed as 60 filled.

According to yet another aspect a training schedule may be automatically generated based on a user s desired goal desired length of run preference between speed and endurance amount of time intensity level and or calories to be burned. A training regimen such as a running schedule may be developed to achieve the specified parameters. The training regimen may be varied to reduce the tediousness or repetitiveness of exercising. For example a running schedule may vary speed heart rate and the like. Training programs may also be created to mimic those of popular or celebrity athletes such as Lance Armstrong.

To increase the enjoyability of running and other athletic activity a music playlist generator may be used to automatically select music for a training program. Music selection may be based on factors such as an intensity of a particular segment of the training training duration a training trend e.g. if intensity increases or decreases user location elevation latitude longitude user speed a time user music preferences e.g. artist genre era album and the like. In one example music with a faster beat or tempo may be automatically selected for a high intensity segment of a running schedule. In another example slower music may be selected for a cool down period of the schedule. Music may be selected from a public database or alternatively or additionally from a private collection of the athlete. Length of music may be taken into account to insure that music is provided during an entirety of the duration of the training program.

According to another aspect the music playlist generator might also recommend music to add to a music library so that such new music may be added to a training regimen. Music may be recommended in a variety of ways including based on tempo beat artist name length and genre. For example new dance music may be identified and recommended to an athlete for high intensity runs.

These and other features of the invention will become apparent from the following detailed description.

Aspects of the invention relate to the measurement collection and display of athletic information. As will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art athletic information must first be obtained from an individual person. With various implementations of the invention one or more different athletic information monitoring devices may be used to measure and record athletic data corresponding to athletic activity performed by a person. Typically an athletic information monitoring device will incorporate a sensor for measuring parameters relating to the person being monitored and a computing device for processing the parameters measured by the sensor.

Once an athletic information monitoring device has recorded athletic information for a person s athletic activity the person may then transfer the recorded athletic information to one or more separate devices in order to view the recorded athletic data. A user may for example download the recorded athletic information from an athletic information monitoring device to a separate collection device. The collection device may in turn transfer the athletic information collected from the athletic information monitoring device to a separate display configuration device where the athletic information can be organized and configured for subsequent viewing with e.g. still another device. As will be discussed in more detail below various implementations of the invention will allow a person to record collect and display athletic information using a group of computing devices communicating over a network such as the Internet.

For example some implementations of the invention may allow a person to measure and record athletic information using a special purpose computing device. The user can then transfer the recorded athletic information to a local computing device such as a personal desktop or laptop computer. More particularly a user can download recorded athletic information from the athletic information monitoring device to a collection software tool on a local computer that acts as a client in a computer network. The collection software tool will then transfer the downloaded athletic information through the network to a remote server computer. A display configuration software tool on the remote server computer will then save the transferred athletic information. Later a person can use the client computer or another local computer to retrieve the stored athletic information from the server computer. In response to a display request from a local computer the display configuration software tool will configure the requested athletic information for display on the local computer and then transmit the configured athletic information to the local computer for display.

Various examples of the invention may be implemented using electronic circuitry configured to perform one or more functions. For example with some embodiments of the invention the athletic information monitoring device the collection device the display device or any combination thereof may be implemented using one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs . More typically however components of various examples of the invention will be implemented using a programmable computing device executing firmware or software instructions or by some combination of purpose specific electronic circuitry and firmware or software instructions executing on a programmable computing device.

Accordingly shows one illustrative example of a computer that can be used to implement various embodiments of the invention. As seen in this figure the computer has a computing unit . The computing unit typically includes a processing unit and a system memory . The processing unit may be any type of processing device for executing software instructions but will conventionally be a microprocessor device. The system memory may include both a read only memory ROM and a random access memory RAM . As will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art both the read only memory ROM and the random access memory RAM may store software instructions for execution by the processing unit .

The processing unit and the system memory are connected either directly or indirectly through a bus or alternate communication structure to one or more peripheral devices. For example the processing unit or the system memory may be directly or indirectly connected to additional memory storage such as the hard disk drive a removable magnetic disk drive not shown removable optical disk drive and a flash memory card not shown . The processing unit and the system memory also may be directly or indirectly connected to one or more input devices and one or more output devices . The input devices may include for example a keyboard touch screen a remote control pad a pointing device such as a mouse touchpad stylus trackball or joystick a scanner a camera or a microphone. The output devices may include for example a monitor display television printer stereo or speakers.

Still further the computing unit will be directly or indirectly connected to one or more network interfaces for communicating with a network. This type of network interface also sometimes referred to as a network adapter or network interface card NIC translates data and control signals from the computing unit into network messages according to one or more communication protocols such as the Transmission Control Protocol TCP the Internet Protocol IP and the User Datagram Protocol UDP . These protocols are well known in the art and thus will not be discussed here in more detail. An interface may employ any suitable connection agent for connecting to a network including for example a wireless transceiver a power line adapter a modem or an Ethernet connection.

It should be appreciated that in addition to the input output and storage peripheral devices specifically listed above the computing device may be connected to a variety of other peripheral devices including some that may perform input output and storage functions or some combination thereof. For example the computer may be connected to a digital music player such as an IPOD brand digital music player available from Apple Inc. of Cupertino Calif. As known in the art this type of digital music player can server as both an output device for a computer e.g. outputting music from a sound file or pictures from an image file and a storage device. In addition this type of digital music play also can serve as an input device for inputting recorded athletic information as will be discussed in more detail below.

In addition to a digital music player the computer may be connected to or otherwise include one or more other peripheral devices such as a telephone. The telephone may be for example a wireless smart phone. As known in the art this type of telephone communicates through a wireless network using radio frequency transmissions. In addition to simple communication functionality a smart phone may also provide a user with one or more data management functions such as sending receiving and viewing electronic messages e.g. electronic mail messages SMS text messages etc. recording or playing back sound files recording or playing back image files e.g. still picture or moving video image files viewing and editing files with text e.g. Microsoft Word or Excel files or Adobe Acrobat files etc. Because of the data management capability of this type of telephone a user may connect the telephone with the computer so that their data maintained may be synchronized.

Of course still other peripheral devices may be included with our otherwise connected to a computer of the type illustrated in as is well known in the art. In some cases a peripheral device may be permanently or semi permanently connected to the computing unit . For example with many computers the computing unit the hard disk drive the removable optical disk drive and a display are semi permanently encased in a single housing. Still other peripheral devices may be removably connected to the computer however. The computer may include for example one or more communication ports through which a peripheral device can be connected to the computing unit either directly or indirectly through the bus . These communication ports may thus include a parallel bus port or a serial bus port such as a serial bus port using the Universal Serial Bus USB standard or the IEEE 1394 High Speed Serial Bus standard e.g. a Firewire port . Alternately or additionally the computer may include a wireless data port such as a Bluetooth interface a Wi Fi interface an infrared data port or the like.

It should be appreciated that a computing device employed according various examples of the invention may include more components than the computer illustrated in fewer components than the computer or a different combination of components than the computer . Some implementations of the invention for example may employ one or more computing devices that are intended to have a very specific functionality such as a digital music player or server computer. These computing devices may thus omit unnecessary peripherals such as the network interface removable optical disk drive printers scanners external hard drives etc. Some implementations of the invention may alternately or additionally employ computing devices that are intended to be capable of a wide variety of functions such as a desktop or laptop personal computer. These computing devices may have any combination of peripheral devices or additional components as desired.

As shown in more detail in the athletic parameter measurement device includes one or more sensors for measuring an athletic parameter associated with a person wearing or otherwise using the athletic parameter measurement device . With the illustrated implementations for example the sensors A and B may be accelerometers such as piezoelectric accelerometers for measuring the acceleration of the athletic parameter measurement device in two orthogonal directions. The athletic parameter measurement device is carried or otherwise worn by a user to measure the desired athletic parameter while the user exercises. For example as shown in the athletic parameter measurement device may be located the sole of a user s shoe while the user walks or runs. With this arrangement the sensors will produce electrical signals corresponding to the movement of the user s foot. As known in the art these signals can then be used to generate athletic data representative of the athletic activity performed by the user.

The athletic parameter measurement device also includes a processor for processing the electrical signals output by the sensors . With some implementations of the invention the processor may be a programmable microprocessor. For still other implementations of the invention however the processor may be a purpose specific circuit device such as an ASIC. The processor may perform any desired operation on the signals output from the sensors such as curve smoothing noise filtering outlier removal amplification summation integration or the like. The processor provides the processed signals to a transmitter . The athletic parameter measurement device also includes a power supply for providing power to the sensors the processor and the transmitter as needed. The power supply may be for example a battery.

The athletic parameter measurement device transmits the processed signals to the electronic interface device as seen in . Returning now to the electronic interface device includes a receiver which receives the processed signals transmitted by the transmitter in the athletic parameter measurement device . The receiver relays the processed signals to a second processor which processes the signals further. Like the processor the processor may perform any desired operation on the processed signals such as curve smoothing noise filtering outlier removal amplification summation integration or the like.

The processor provides the processed signals to the digital music player . Referring back now to the electronic interface device includes a connector system that physically plugs into and connects with a conventional input port provided on digital music player . The input port into which the connector system of the electronic interface device connects may be any desired type of input port for transferring data such as a parallel data port a serial data port an earphone or microphone jack etc. The connector system may include any suitable connecting devices such as wires pins electrical connectors and the like so as to make an electrical connection or other suitable connection with corresponding elements provided in the input port of the digital music player e.g. to allow electronic and or data communications between the interface device and the electronic interface device . If necessary or desired additional securing elements may be provided to securely connect the interface device to the digital music player such as straps hooks buckles clips clamps clasps retaining elements mechanical connectors and the like.

Returning now to the processor provides the processed signals to the computing unit . The computing unit may initially store the processed signals in the memory . Further with some implementations of the invention the computing unit may operate on the processed signals provided by the athletic information monitoring device to generate a set of athletic data corresponding to the athletic activity performed by the user. For example if the athletic information monitoring device includes accelerometers for measuring the movement of the user s foot the computing unit may analyze the processed signals from the athletic information monitoring device to generate a set of athletic data describing the user s speed at specific instances during the user s athletic activity and the total distance traveled by the user at each of those specific instances. Various techniques for determining a user s speed from accelerometer signals are described in for example U.S. Pat. No. 6 898 550 to Blackadar et al. entitled Monitoring Activity Of A User In Locomotion On Foot and issued on May 24 2005 U.S. Pat. No. 6 882 955 to Ohlenbusch et al. entitled Monitoring Activity Of A User In Locomotion On Foot and issued on Apr. 19 2005 U.S. Pat. No. 6 876 947 to Darley et al. entitled Monitoring Activity Of A User In Locomotion On Foot and issued on Apr. 5 2005 U.S. Pat. No. 6 493 652 to Ohlenbusch et al. entitled Monitoring Activity Of A User In Locomotion On Foot and issued on Dec. 10 2002 U.S. Pat. No. 6 298 314 to Blackadar et al. entitled Detecting The Starting And Stopping Of Movement Of A Person On Foot and issued on Oct. 2 2001 U.S. Pat. No. 6 052 654 to Gaudet et al. entitled Measuring Foot Contact Time And Foot Loft Time Of A Person In Locomotion and issued on Apr. 18 2000 U.S. Pat. No. 6 018 705 to Gaudet et al. entitled Measuring Foot Contact Time And Foot Loft Time Of A Person In Locomotion and issued on Jan. 25 2000 each of which are incorporated entirely herein by reference.

The athletic data set may also include a time value associated with each speed value and or each distance value. If the athletic information monitoring device can be employed to collect athletic information from different users then the athletic data computing unit may additionally prompt the user to identify himself or herself in some way. This identification information may then be included with the athletic data set generated from the information provided by the athletic information monitoring device . Once the computing unit has generated a set of athletic data from the information provided by the athletic information monitoring device the computing unit may store the athletic data set in the memory . As will be discussed in more detail below when the digital music player subsequently is connected to a computing device implementing an athletic information collection tool the computing unit will download the athletic data to a display configuration tool hosted on a remote computing device.

While wireless communication between the between the athletic parameter measurement device and the interface device is described for the embodiments illustrated in any desired manner of communicating between the athletic parameter measurement device and the interface device may be used without departing from the invention including wired connections. Also any desired way of placing data derived from the physical or physiological data from the athletic parameter measurement device in the proper form or format for display on or output from electronic device may be provided without departing from the invention. For example if desired the athletic parameter measurement device may be specially designed and or programmed for use with one or more specific electronic devices e.g. pre programmed and or wired to operate with a specific device or devices and to provide output data in a form and format suitable for those devices. In this situation the interface devices may be marketed and sold to specifically target certain electronic devices such as specific models of digital music players and even other electronic devices such as telephones watches personal digital assistants etc. As another alternative if desired the interface devices may be programmed at a later time to operate with a wide variety of different electronic devices e.g. by downloading display or device driver and or format data for specific electronic devices from the Internet from disk or from another source etc.

If desired in accordance with at least some examples of this invention the electronic interface device may further include a display and or a user input system such as one or more rotary input devices switches buttons as shown in the illustrated example in mouse or trackball elements touch screens or the like or some combination thereof. The display may be employed to show for example information relating to music being played by the digital music player information relating to the athletic information signals being received by the digital music player athletic data being generated by the digital music player from the received athletic information signals etc. The user input system may be employed for example to control one or more aspects of the processing of the input data received via interface device to control input data receipt e.g. timing types of information received on demand data requests etc. to control data output to or by the electronic device to control the athletic parameter measurement device etc. Alternatively or additionally if desired the input system on the digital music player e.g. buttons a touch screen a digitizer stylus based input a rotary input device a trackball or roller ball a mouse etc. may be used to provide user input data to the interface device and or to the athletic parameter measurement device . As still another example if desired a voice input system may be provided with the interface device and or the digital music player e.g. to enable user input via voice commands. Any other desired type of user input system for control of any system elements and or for any purpose may be provided without departing from the invention.

The digital music player may include additional input and or output elements e.g. such as ports and shown in e.g. for headphones or other audio output power supplies wireless communications infrared input microphone input or other devices. If desired and if these ports and or would be covered when the interface device is attached to the electronic device the interface device may be equipped with similar external ports to ports and or and internal circuitry may be provided in the interface device to enable the user to plug the same additional devices into the interface device as they might plug into the digital music player and still take advantage of the same functions e.g. to thereby allow the necessary data signals power and or information to pass through the interface device to the user to another output and or to the digital music player .

It should be appreciated that while some specific embodiments of the invention described above relate to a digital music player alternate examples of the invention may be implemented using any portable electronic device. For example with some implementations of the invention the athletic parameter measurement device may be used in conjunction with a mobile telephone a watch a personal digital assistant anther type of music player such as a compact disc or satellite radio music player a portable computer or any other desired electronic device. Still further some implementations of the invention may alternately or additionally omit the use of the interface device . For example the athletic parameter measurement device may be configured to communicate using the Bluetooth wireless communication protocol so that it can be employed with Bluetooth capable mobile telephones personal digital assistants watches or personal computers. Of course still other wireless or wired communication techniques could be employed while omitting the interface device .

It also should be appreciated that while a specific example of an athletic parameter measurement device has been described above for ease of understanding any type of desired athletic parameter measurement device can be employed with various embodiments of the invention. For example with some implementations of the invention the athletic parameter measurement device may be a heart rate monitor a blood oxygen monitor a satellite positioning device e.g. a Global Positioning Satellite GPS navigation device a device for measuring the electrical activity of the user e.g. an EKG monitor or any other device that measures one or more physical parameters of the user. Still further the athletic parameter measurement device may measure one or more operational parameters of some device being manipulated by the user such as the speed and or distance of a bicycle the speed and or work performed by a treadmill rowing machine elliptical machine stationary bicycle the speed and or distance traveled by skis water or snow skates roller or ice or snowshoes or the like worn by the user etc.

Also while the athletic parameter measurement device has been described as being separate for the digital music player or other portable electronic device that receives the signals from the athletic parameter measurement device with some implementations of the invention the athletic parameter measurement device may be incorporated into the digital music player or other portable electronic device. For example some implementations of the invention may employ a music player mobile telephone watch or personal digital assistant that incorporates accelerometers a satellite positioning device or any other desired device for measuring athletic activity. Still further it should be appreciated that various implementations of the invention may employ a plurality of athletic parameter measurement devices incorporated into the digital music player or other portable electronic device separate from the digital music player or other portable electronic device or some combination thereof.

As shown the athletic information collection and display device includes an interface for receiving data from the athletic information monitoring device . The interface may be implemented using e.g. electrical components software components such as application program interfaces APIs or some combination thereof. The athletic information collection and display device also has an athletic data collection module . With various examples of the invention the athletic data collection module may detect when the digital music player or other portable electronic device storing one or more athletic data sets is connected to the athletic information collection and display device through the interface establish a communication session with the digital music player or other portable electronic device to retrieve the athletic data set or sets. In some implementations of the invention the athletic data collection module may delete athletic data sets from the digital music player or other portable electronic device after the athletic data sets have been retrieved.

With some examples of the invention the athletic data collection module may perform some further operations on the athletic data sets retrieved from the digital music player or other portable electronic device. For example if the athletic information monitoring device can be employed to collect athletic information from different users then the athletic data collection module may additionally prompt the user to identify himself or herself if this information was not previously obtained by the athletic information collection and display device . This identification information may then be included with the retrieved athletic data sets.

As previously noted the athletic information collection and display device typically will generate sets of athletic data from information measured by one or more athletic parameter measurement devices . With some embodiments of the invention however the athletic information collection and display device may instead store the raw information provided by the athletic parameter measurement devices . With these embodiments the athletic data collection module may retrieve the raw information from the digital music player or other portable electronic device and then generate athletic data sets from the raw information itself. Of course still other examples of the invention may divide functions relating to the generation of athletic data from the raw information measured by athletic parameter measurement devices between the athletic data collection module and the digital music player or other portable electronic device as desired.

The athletic data collection module may be implemented by for example software instructions executed by a computing unit of a computing device . With some examples of the invention the athletic data collection module may be implemented by a conventional software tool such as a browser. Alternately athletic data collection module may be implemented by a purpose specific software tool or by a conventional software tool enhanced to perform athletic data collection functions. For example the athletic data collection module may be implemented by a software tool that incorporates a conventional browser to perform a variety of functions. These functions may include e.g. selecting purchasing and downloading music and video content in addition to collecting athletic data from a digital music player or other portable electronic device.

Once the athletic data collection module has collected the processed signals provided by the athletic information monitoring device the athletic data collection module transmits the athletic data set to an athletic data display configuration device through an interface module . The athletic information collection and display device may communicate with the athletic data display configuration device through a conventional network such as the Internet. With these configurations the interface module may be implemented using any conventional type of network interface such as a network interface card. Of course any type of desired hardware or software combination alternately may be used to allow the athletic data collection module to send the collected athletic data to the athletic data display configuration device . With some implementations of the invention the athletic data collection module may automatically forward collected athletic data to the athletic data display configuration device . For example the athletic data collection module may attempt to forward collected athletic data to the athletic data display configuration device immediately after collection at a prescheduled interval upon the detection of a network connection to the athletic data display configuration device or some combination thereof. Alternately or additionally the athletic data collection module may prompt a user to specify when collected athletic data is sent to the athletic data display configuration device .

The athletic data display configuration device also includes an athletic data display configuration module and an athletic data storage . When the interface of the athletic data display configuration device receives athletic data from the athletic information collection and display device it provides the received athletic data to the athletic data display configuration module . The athletic data display configuration module may then store the athletic data in the athletic data storage for future use. As will be discussed in more detail below the athletic data display configuration module also will retrieve athletic data from the athletic data storage and configure the retrieved athletic data for display through one or more user interfaces in a manner that is meaningful to a user.

Returning now to when a user wishes to view information relating to his or her athletic activities or the athletic activities of another as will be discussed in more detail below the user submits this request to the athletic information collection and display device . More particularly the user can employ conventional input and output devices such as a keyboard mouse display and the like. The display request is then provided to an athletic data display module through a conventional interface input output interface . As well known in the art the interface input output interface may be implemented using any desired combination of hardware and software components such as conventional application programming interfaces APIs used to detect and process input from input devices and to send data to and otherwise control output devices.

With some examples of the invention the athletic data display module may be implemented using any conventional tool for receiving input to request and control the display of data and then subsequently displaying the data in the manner requested. For example the athletic data display module may be implemented using a conventional browser program such as Microsoft Internet Explorer Mozilla Firefox or Opera executing on a computing unit . With still other embodiments of the invention the athletic data display module may be implemented using a conventional browser program that has been enhanced by one or more display tools such as an ActiveX plug in a Java script or a version of the Macromedia Flash Player or Adobe Flash Player available from Adobe Systems Incorporated of San Jose Calif. In still other embodiments of the invention the athletic data display module may be implemented by for example a purpose specific software tool for displaying athletic data.

As will be discussed in more detail below when a user activates the athletic data display module he or she is provided with a user interface prompting the use to select what collected athletic data he or she wishes to view the format in which the user wishes to view the collected athletic data etc. This user interface may be generated by the athletic data display module the athletic data display configuration module or some combination thereof. When a user employs the provided user interface to submit a request to view athletic data the athletic data display module relays the request to the athletic data display configuration module . In response the athletic data display configuration module configures the requested athletic data for display by the athletic data display module . For example as will be discussed in more detail below a user may request to view the total distance run by a user for each day in a one week period. In response the athletic data display configuration module will retrieve the relevant distance data from the athletic data storage . It will then configure the retrieved distance data to be displayed through a desired image e.g. a bar graph and provide the configured athletic data to the athletic data display module for display to the user.

It should be noted that with some embodiments of the invention the data display configuration functions may be divided between the athletic data display module and the athletic data display configuration module . For example if the athletic data display module is implemented by a simple browser then the athletic data display module may serve as a thin client for the athletic data display configuration module . That is all of the data display configuration functions may be performed by the athletic data display configuration module . The athletic data display module will then only display the information provided to it. Alternately if the athletic data display module is implemented by a purpose specific software tool then most or all of the data display configuration functions may be performed by the athletic data display module . With these examples the athletic data display configuration module may be used only to store and retrieve athletic data from the athletic data storage .

Typically the athletic data display configuration device will be implemented at a remote location from the athletic information collection and display device . The athletic information collection and display device then may be connected to the athletic data display configuration device through an electronic communication network as previously noted. The electronic communication network may be a public network such as the Internet a private network or include some combination of both. For example illustrates a network including an athletic data display configuration device and a plurality of client devices for collecting and or displaying athletic data. These client devices may include personal computers A using some version of the Microsoft Windows operating systems available from Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash. personal computers B using some version of the Apple operating system personal digital assistants C and telephones D. Of course various examples of the invention may alternately or additionally include any other desired electronic device that can be configured to collect and or display athletic data as discussed above.

It should be appreciated that a client device may perform an athletic data collection function an athletic data display function or both. That is while the example of the athletic information collection and display device described above is capable of both collecting and displaying athletic data some client devices may only collect athletic data. Further some client devices may only display athletic data. For example a user may employ a GPS equipped smart telephone to collect athletic data and transmit the collected athletic data to the athletic data display configuration device . The user may then employ a personal computer equipped with only a conventional browser to subsequently download and display the collected athletic data.

In response to receiving a request to review athletic information from a user via the athletic data display module the athletic data display configuration module will determine the user s identity. The athletic data display configuration module will then retrieve the athletic data associated with the user from the athletic data storage . Next the athletic data display configuration module will prepare a user interface for displaying the requested athletic data and transmit the user interface with the athletic data to the athletic data display module for display to the user.

As shown in the user has activated the Distance button and the Run button . In response the display initially shows an icon for the each of the most recent e.g. twelve sets of athletic data collected by the server that corresponds to the user. As previously noted each data set includes athletic data values generated from athletic information measured during a single discrete athletic activity performed by a person over a particular time period. Further the height of each icon will correspond to the total distance value included in the set of athletic data represented by the icon . For example on October 22 the user traveled a total distance of 4.05 miles during a run whereas the user traveled a total distance of only 1.59 miles during a first run on December 23. Accordingly the icon A corresponding to the athletic activity on October 22 will be proportionally larger than the icon B representing the athletic data collected for the user s first run on December 23 as shown in this figure. If the user wishes to view icons for athletic activities performed before or after the athletic activities corresponding to the displayed icons the user can view those additional icons by activating the desired arrow buttons .

If a user subsequently selects the Time button the athletic data display configuration module will reconfigure the user interface to display new icons so that each icon represents a total time value for each of the data sets. For example as shown in the height of each icon will correspond to the total time value in each represented data set. For example if the length of the user s run on October 22 was 54 minutes 2 seconds whereas the duration of the user s first run on December 23 was only 18 minutes 11 seconds then the icon A corresponding to the athletic data set for October 22 will be proportionally taller than the icon B representing the athletic data set collected for the user s run on December 23.

In addition to displaying only distance and time information the user interface may optionally display additional information. For example with some implementations of the invention a user may employ a pointing device to select a specific icon or . In response to the selection by e.g. positioning a cursor over the icon the user interface may display additional information from the athletic data set represented by the selected icon. For example the user interface may use e.g. a pop up display not shown to display data values for the total distance time speed and calories burned for the athletic activity represented by the selected icon or . Still further the user interface may use e.g. color information to distinguish between the most recently collected sets of athletic data and athletic data sets that were collected at an earlier time. Thus the icons or representing data sets collected during the most recent download from an athletic information monitoring device may be illustrated using e.g. a light green color while icons or representing previously collected athletic data sets may be displayed with a dark green color.

With some implementations of the invention a user may obtain still more detailed information regarding an athletic data set by activating the icon or representing the athletic data set. For example a user may position a cursor over a desired icon or using a pointing device and then depress a selection button to activate the icon or . In response the athletic data display configuration module will configure and provide a user interface graphically illustrating the data values in the corresponding athletic data set in more detail. For example as illustrated in various implementations of the inventions may display a user interface plotting a first type of data in the data set against a second type of data in the data set to provide a visual graph . More particularly as illustrated in this figure the athletic data display configuration module will plot speed values in the athletic data set against distance values data in the athletic data set providing the graph . In this manner a user can view what his or her instantaneous speed was at various points during the run. In addition the graph may include other relevant information such as for example an icon showing the type of athletic activity e.g. running and an indication on of the total distance traveled.

With some implementations of the invention the graph also may include specific distance waypoints which will show the particular speed value measured at the distance during the athletic activity represented by the position of the waypoint . For example if the user employs a pointing device to move a cursor over waypoint A the user interface will display a pop up window not shown indicating that the user had an average speed of 12 minutes 12 seconds at the first mile. Similarly if the user employs a pointing device to move a cursor over the waypoint B the user interface will display a pop up window not shown indicating that the user had an average speed of 12 minutes 17 seconds at the second mile. If the user then employs a pointing device to move a cursor over the waypoint C the user interface will display a pop up window not shown indicating that the user had an average speed of 12 minutes 3 seconds at the third mile.

The user interface also may include a value field indicating the total distance value total time value total average pace value total calories burned value and athletic activity type value corresponding to the represented athletic activity. It also may include an Options button . If the user activates the Options button the interface may display additional command buttons not shown that allow the user to name the selected athletic data set or delete the athletic data set. Still further the interface may include a Comparison button .

If the user selects the Comparison button the athletic data display configuration module will determine a time or distance classification for the selected athletic activity. For example if the total distance value collected for the selected athletic activity is approximately 6 kilometers then the athletic data display configuration module will classify the athletic data set corresponding to the selected athletic activity as a 6 kilometer athletic data set. Similarly if the total distance value collected for the selected athletic activity is proximal to another specified distance category e.g. 1 mile 10 kilometers 15 kilometers 10 miles 26 miles etc. then the athletic data display configuration module will classify the athletic data set based upon the relevant category.

After the athletic data display configuration module has classified the athletic data set it examines the other athletic data sets in that classification to determine which athletic data set has the highest total distance value or if the classification is based upon time or speed the lowest total time value or the highest average speed value . Once the athletic data display configuration module identifies the best set of athletic data for the determined classification it will then reconfigure the user interface to include a graph of this best athletic data set as shown in . As seen in this figure the graph may have the same characteristics and features as the graph representing the selected athletic activity session.

If the user selects the See My Runs button the athletic data display configuration module will configure and provide the interface for display as shown in . Returning now to those figures if the user selects the Week button or the Month button the athletic data display configuration module will modify the user interface to display one or more icons representing an aggregation of multiple sets of athletic data. More particularly the athletic data display configuration module will aggregate data values from each athletic data set based upon the designated time period.

For example if the user has selected the Distance button in addition to the Week button then the athletic data display configuration module will add up the total distance data values for each set of athletic data corresponding to an athletic activity session occurring within a particular calendar week. The athletic data display configuration module will then modify the user interface to include icons where each icon graphically represents the sum of total distance values in the athletic data sets generated during a particular week. The athletic data display configuration module may also modify the user interface to include a calendar week field specifying the calendar week to which each icon is associated. As shown in the height of each icon represents the sum of the total distance values for each athletic data set for the specified week period. For example the user may have run a total of 4.05 miles during the weekly period from October 22 to October 28. On the other hand the user may have run a total distance of 20.25 miles during the week period of December 3 to December 9. Accordingly the icon B representing the aggregated athletic data for the week of December 3 to December 9 will be proportionally larger than the icon A representing the athletic data aggregated from the athletic data sets obtained for the week of October 22 to October 28.

Similarly if the user selects the Time button the athletic data display configuration module will modify the user interface to display icons that represent the sum of total time values for aggregated sets of athletic data. More particularly as shown in a height of each icon will represent the sum of the total time values for each athletic data set obtained during the corresponding weekly period. For example if a user ran for a total time of 54 minutes 2 seconds during the week from October 22 to October 28 but ran for a total time of 4 hours 7 minutes and 24 seconds during the week of December 3 to December 9 then the icon B representing the aggregation of athletic data for the week of December 3 to December 9 will be proportionally larger than the icon A representing the aggregation of athletic data for the weekly period of October 22 to October 28.

Similarly if the user selects the Month button the athletic data display configuration module will modify the user interface to display icons representing the aggregations of data values from athletic data sets obtained over each monthly time period. For example if the user has selected the Distance button as well the user interface may display an icon representing the aggregation of total distance values from data sets obtained for athletic activity sessions performed during each calendar month as illustrated in . The user interface also may include a calendar month field specifying the calendar month to which each icon is associated. As shown in this figure the user interface thus includes an icon A representing the aggregation of total distance values from data sets obtained for athletic activity sessions performed during the month of August and another icon B representing the aggregation of total distance values from data sets obtained for athletic activity sessions performed during the month of January. The height of the icon A represents the sum of the total distance values for each athletic data set obtained for athletic activity sessions performed in August i.e. 18.84 miles while the height of the icon B correspond to the sum of each of the total distance data values for each athletic data set obtained for athletic activity sessions performed in January i.e. 58.84 miles .

If on the other hand the user has selected the Time button the user interface may display an icon representing the aggregation of total time values from data sets obtained for athletic activity sessions performed during each calendar month as illustrated in . As shown in this figure the user interface thus includes an icon A representing the aggregation of total distance values from data sets obtained for athletic activity sessions performed during the month of August and another icon B representing the aggregation of total time values from data sets obtained for athletic activity sessions performed during the month of January. The height of the icon A represents the sum of the total time values for each athletic data set obtained for athletic activity sessions performed in August i.e. 4 hours 6 minutes 1 second while the height of the icon B correspond to the sum of each of the total time data values for each athletic data set obtained for athletic activity sessions performed in January i.e. 10 hours 47 minutes 27 seconds .

In addition to displaying only distance and time information the user interface may optionally display additional information aggregated from multiple sets of athletic data. For example with some implementations of the invention a user may employ a pointing device to select a specific icon or . In response to the selection by e.g. positioning a cursor over the icon the user interface may display additional information from the aggregation of athletic data sets represented by the selected icon. For example the user interface may provide e.g. a pop up display not shown to display sum of total distance data values corresponding to the aggregation of athletic activity information represented by the selected icon the some of the total time data values corresponding to the aggregation of athletic activity information represented by the selected icon the average of the average speed data values corresponding to the aggregation of athletic activity information represented by the selected icon speed and the sum of the calories burned data values data values corresponding to the aggregation of athletic activity information represented by the selected icon.

It should be noted that the athletic data display configuration module or with some implementations of the invention the athletic data display module may aggregate data from multiple athletic data sets in advance of receiving a request to display aggregated athletic data from a user. Alternately the athletic data display configuration module or with some implementations of the invention the athletic data display module may aggregate data from multiple athletic data sets only in response to a specific request from a user to view the aggregated data.

In addition to displaying specific athletic data values or aggregates of athletic data values various embodiments of the invention may alternately or additionally permit a user to set a goal relating to his or her athletic activities and then view one or more images graphically illustrating the user s progress toward accomplishing those goals. For example with the embodiments illustrated in a user can select the Goals tab shown in these figures. In response the athletic data display configuration module may configure and provide the user interface illustrated in . As seen in this figure the user interface includes a Set A Goal button prompting the user to select a desired goal relating to his or her athletic activities.

When the user activates the Set A Goal button the athletic data display configuration module will configure and provide the user interface shown in . As seen in this figure the user interface includes a More Often button a Distance button a Burn More Calories button a Faster button and a Back button . As known in the art activating the Back button will cause the athletic data display configuration module or with some examples of the invention the athletic data display module to configure and display the previously displayed configuration of the user interface or if the currently displayed configuration of the user interface is its initial configuration a previously shown user interface.

If a user wishes to perform the athletic activity more often then the user activates the More Often button . In response the athletic data display configuration module reconfigures the user interface to include a sub interface . As seen in the sub interface includes a Number Of Runs control a Number Of Weeks control and a Set Goal button . By employing the Number Of Runs control a user can specify the number of runs or the number of times to perform some other athletic activity if appropriate he or she wishes to make within a desired time period. Similarly by employing the Number Of Weeks control a user can specify the number of weeks making up the desired time period allowed to reach the desired goal. In the illustrated example the Number Of Runs control is a field control i.e. having a field in which a value can be typed in while the Number Of Weeks control is a radio control but various examples of the invention may employ alternate types of controls as desired. Once a user has specified the number of runs that must be made and specified the time period in which they must be made to meet a desired goal the user can finalize the goal parameters by activating the Set Goal button .

Similarly if a user wishes to run a longer distance in a given time period then the user activates the Distance button . In response the athletic data display configuration module reconfigures the user interface to include a sub interface . As seen in the sub interface includes a Total Distance control a Number Of Weeks control and a Set Goal button . By employing the Total Distance control a user can specify the total distance he or she wishes to run within a desired time period. Similarly by employing the Number Of Weeks control a user can specify the number of weeks making up the desired time period allowed to reach the desired goal. In the illustrated example the Total Distance control is a combination control with both a field control i.e. a field in which a value can be typed and a drop down menu control i.e. to allow the user to select the units in which the distance would be measure . The Number Of Weeks control illustrated in then is a radio control. Various examples of the invention however may employ alternate types of controls as desired. Once a user has specified the number of runs that must be made and specified the time period in which they must be made to meet a desired goal the user can finalize the goal parameters by activating the Set Goal button .

If a user wishes to burn more calories during a particular time period then the user activates the Burn More Calories button . In response the athletic data display configuration module reconfigures the user interface to include a sub interface . As seen in the sub interface includes a Number Of Calories control a Number Of Weeks control and a Set Goal button . By employing the Number Of Calories control a user can specify the number of calories he or she wishes to burn within a desired time period. Similarly by employing the Number Of Weeks control a user can specify the number of weeks making up the desired time period allowed to burn the desired number of calories. In the illustrated example the Number Of Calories control is a field control i.e. having a field in which a value can be typed in while the Number Of Weeks control is a radio control but various examples of the invention may employ alternate types of controls as desired. Once a user has specified the number of runs that must be made and specified the time period in which they must be made to meet a desired goal the user can finalize the goal parameters by activating the Set Goal button .

Lastly if a user wishes to run faster for a desired number of runs then the user activates the Faster button . In response the athletic data display configuration module reconfigures the user interface to include a sub interface . As seen in the sub interface includes an Average Pace control a Number Of Runs control and a Set Goal button . By employing the Average Pace control a user can specify the minimum pace at which he or she wishes to travel for the desired number of runs. Similarly by employing the Number Of Runs control a user can specify the number of runs for which the user wishes to run faster in order to reach the desired goal. In the illustrated example the Average Pace control is a field control i.e. having fields in which values can be typed while the Number Of Runs control is a radio control but various examples of the invention may employ alternate types of controls as desired. Once a user has specified the average pace and the number of runs for which he or she must run at or faster than the specified average pace to meet a desired goal the user can finalize the goal parameters by activating the Set Goal button .

After the user has specified a desired goal the athletic data display configuration module will monitor the athletic data collected by the athletic data collection module . When the user subsequently wishes to view his or her progress toward accomplishing the specified goals by e.g. selecting the Goals tab then the athletic data display configuration module will aggregate the relevant data from the collected athletic data set and configure a user interface graphically displaying the user s progress toward the specified goals. For example with some implementations of the invention the athletic data display configuration module may configure a user interface displaying bar graph such as the bar graph shown in . A portion of the bar graph corresponding to the user s progress is marked with fill . Thus in the illustrated example the fill in the bar graph indicates that the user has accomplished more than 50 of the athletic activity required to complete his or her goal. Some implementations may simultaneously display a bar graph or other progress indicator for each goal set by the user. Still other implementations of the invention may provide controls to allow a user to select a single bar graph or other progress indicator for display in the user interface.

Various examples of the invention may allow a user to challenge one or more other users i.e. athletes employing embodiments of the invention to a competition regarding athletic activities. With some implementations of the invention for example a user may issue a challenge to one or more other athletes by requesting the user interface shown in . As seen in this figure the interface includes a Distance Race button a Most Miles button a Fastest Run button a Distance Goal button and a Back button . As known in the art activating the Back button will cause the athletic data display configuration module or with some examples of the invention the athletic data display module to configure and display the previously displayed configuration of the user interface or if the currently displayed configuration of the user interface is its initial configuration a previously shown user interface.

If a user wishes to establish a challenge regarding who can run a specified distance first then the user activates the Distance Race button . In response the athletic data display configuration module reconfigures the user interface to include a sub interface . As seen in the sub interface includes a Total Distance control a Challenge Name control a Start Date control and a Next Step button . By employing the Total Distance control a user can specify the total distance that a challenge participant must be the first to run in order to win the challenge. Next the user can provide a specific name for the challenge using the Challenge Name control . Naming each challenge allows an athlete to identify and keep track of a plurality of different challenges in which he or she may be concurrently participating. The user can then specify the starting date for the challenge using the Start Date control . In the illustrated example the Total Distance control and the Challenge Name control are each field controls i.e. controls having a field in which a value can be typed while the Start Date control is made up of a number of drop down menus. It should be appreciated however that various examples of the invention may employ alternate types of controls as desired. Once a user has specified the parameters of the challenge the user can begin the process of inviting specific athletes to participate in the challenge by activating the Next Step button .

When the user activates the Next Step button the athletic data display configuration module reconfigures the user interface to include a sub interface in place of the Distance Race button as shown in . As seen in this figure the sub interface includes a Personal Message control an Email Address control and a Set Challenge button . The user can employ the Personal Message control to create a personal message to each athlete the user wishes to invite to participate in the challenge. Using the Email Address control the user can then specify the email address for each person he or she wishes to invite to participate in the challenge. In the illustrated example the Personal Message control and the Challenge Name control are each field controls i.e. controls having a field in which a value can be typed but various examples of the invention may employ alternate types of controls as desired.

Once the user has provided the email address for each desired participant the user can initiate the challenge by activating the Set Challenge button . In response to the user activating the Set Challenge button the athletic data display configuration device or with some implementations of the invention the user s athletic information collection and display device sends an email to each of the specified invitees. The email will contain the personal message and e.g. an interactive prompt to join the challenge. If an invitee agrees to join the challenge by responding to the prompt then the athletic data display configuration device will be notified that the invitee has agreed to join the challenge. These types of email interactive prompts such as the voting buttons provided in versions of the Outlook software tool available from Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash. are well known in the art and will not be discussed here in detail.

After the athletic data display configuration device has identified the participants in a challenge it monitors the collected athletic data for each of the participants and aggregates the relevant data values in the collected athletic data. For example if the challenge is a race to determine who can be the first to run 100 miles for each participant the athletic data display configuration device will sum the total distance value in each athletic data set collected for that participant after the start date. When a participant has a sum of his or her total distance values that matches or exceeds the specified challenge distance and is the first invitee to do so then the athletic data display configuration device will identify that participant as the winner of the challenge. In response the athletic data display configuration device will notify each participant of the winner. The athletic data display configuration device may notify the participants using any desired technique such as by sending an electronic mail message by displaying a special purpose interface when each participant connects to the athletic data display configuration device etc. A variety of such notification techniques are well known in the art and thus will not be discussed in detail.

With various examples of the invention the athletic data display configuration device may additionally provide updates regarding the status of a participant relative to the other participants. These updates also can be provided using any desired technique such as by sending an electronic mail message by displaying a special purpose interface when each participant connects to the athletic data display configuration device etc. For example the athletic data display configuration device may configure and provide a user interface showing each participant s progress toward the goal of the challenge using e.g. bar graphs for each participant of the type previously described with regard to monitoring individual goals.

Returning now to if a user wishes to establish a challenge regarding who can run the most miles in a given period of time then the user activates the Most Miles button . In response the athletic data display configuration module reconfigures the user interface to include a sub interface as seen in . The sub interface includes a Challenge Duration control a Challenge Name control a Start Date control and a Next Step button . By employing the Challenge Duration control a user can specify the total amount of time for which a challenge participant has to run the greatest total distance in order to win the challenge. Next the user can provide a specific name for the challenge using the Challenge Name control . The user can then specify the starting date for the challenge using the Start Date control . In the illustrated example the Challenge Duration control and the Challenge Name control are each field controls i.e. controls having a field in which a value can be typed while the Start Date control is made up of a number of drop down menus. It should be appreciated however that various examples of the invention may employ alternate types of controls as desired.

Once a user has specified the parameters of the challenge the user can begin the process of inviting specific athletes to participate in the challenge by activating the Next Step button . In response the athletic data display configuration module reconfigures the user interface to include the sub interface in place of the Most Miles button . An example of sub interface is illustrated in . As discussed in detail above the user can employ the sub interface to invite others to participate in the challenge and ensure that the athletic data display configuration device is informed of the participants in the challenge. As also previously discussed the athletic data display configuration device will monitor the collected athletic data for each participant and aggregate the relevant data values from the collected athletic data to determine who wins the challenge. Still further the athletic data display configuration device can notify the participants of the winner of the challenge and with various examples of the invention of the status of each participant during the challenge as described above.

If a user wishes to establish a challenge regarding who can make the fastest run in a given period of time then the user activates the Fastest Run button . In response the athletic data display configuration module reconfigures the user interface to include a sub interface as seen in . The sub interface includes a Total Distance control a Challenge Name control a Start Date control and a Next Step button . By employing the Total Distance control a user can specify the total distance a user must run in order to have his or her run time eligible to win the challenge. Next the user can provide a specific name for the challenge using the Challenge Name control . The user can then specify the starting date for the challenge using the Start Date control . In the illustrated example the Total Distance control and the Challenge Name control are each field controls i.e. controls having a field in which a value can be typed while the Start Date control is made up of a number of drop down menus but various examples of the invention may employ alternate types of controls as desired.

Once a user has specified the parameters of the challenge the user can begin the process of inviting specific athletes to participate in the challenge by activating the Next Step button . In response the athletic data display configuration module reconfigures the user interface to include a sub interface in place of the Fastest Run button . An example of sub interface is illustrated in . As discussed in detail above the user can employ the sub interface to invite others to participate in the challenge and ensure that the athletic data display configuration device is informed of the participants in the challenge. As also previously discussed the athletic data display configuration device will monitor the collected athletic data for each participant and aggregate the relevant data values from the collected athletic data to determine who wins the challenge. Still further the athletic data display configuration device can notify the participants of the winner of the challenge and with various examples of the invention of the status of each participant during the challenge as described above.

Lastly if a user wishes to establish a challenge regarding who can run a specified distance in a given period of time then the user activates the Distance Goal button . In response the athletic data display configuration module reconfigures the user interface to include a sub interface . As seen in the sub interface includes a Total Distance control a Challenge Name control a Start Date control and a Next Step button . By employing the Total Distance control a user can specify the total distance a user must run over the specified time period in order to meet the challenge. Next the user can provide a specific name for the challenge using the Challenge Name control . The user can then specify the starting date for the challenge using the Start Date control . In the illustrated example the Total Distance control and the Challenge Name control are each field controls i.e. controls having a field in which a value can be typed while the Start Date control is made up of a number of drop down menus but various examples of the invention may employ alternate types of controls as desired.

Once a user has specified the parameters of the challenge the user can begin the process of inviting specific athletes to participate in the challenge by activating the Next Step button . In response the athletic data display configuration module reconfigures the user interface to include the sub interface in place of the Distance Goal button . An example of sub interface is illustrated in . As discussed in detail above the user can employ the sub interface to invite others to participate in the challenge and ensure that the athletic data display configuration device is informed of the participants in the challenge. As also previously discussed the athletic data display configuration device will monitor the collected athletic data for each participant and aggregate the relevant data values from the collected athletic data to determine who wins the challenge. Still further the athletic data display configuration device can notify the participants of the winner of the challenge and with various examples of the invention of the status of each participant during the challenge as described above.

As well as interactive comparisons of a user s athletic data with other users such as the goals and challenges described in detail above some implementations of the invention may alternately or additionally allow a user to passively compare his or her athletic data with other users. For example some implementations of the invention may provide a ranking of where a user stands with respect to other users. The ranking may be based upon a simple comparison or it may be limited to a specific demographic group a particular geographic region or some combination therefore.

For example with some implementations of the invention a user may request that the athletic data display configuration module generate and display the user interface illustrated in . As seen in this figure the user interface includes a comparison criteria region a filter region and display region . The comparison criteria region includes a plurality of radio style controls while the filter region includes a plurality of drop down controls . The display region then displays user information based upon athletic data selected using the comparison and filter information selected using the controls .

More particularly a user employs the radio style controls to specify the basic criteria according to which the athletic data display configuration module will compare athletic data for a plurality of users. These controls are referred to herein as radio style controls because the selection of one of the controls e.g. control C will automatically deselect a previously selected control and only one control may be selected at any given time. Of course it should be appreciated that other type of selection tools including other types of controls may be alternately or additionally employed with other implementations of the invention. Each control is associated with both a sorting criterion for sorting measured athletic data and a time criterion specifying a time period during which the athletic data being compared must have been measured. For example each of controls A C is associated with total distance as a sorting criterion while control A is associated with a week time period control B is associated with a month time period and control C is associated with an unlimited time period. Control D is then associated with a duration sorting criterion and a week time period.

With the example of the interface shown in each of the filter controls are selected to ALL as will be discussed in more detail below. Further the control A is selected. Because the control A is associated with the distance sorting criterion and the week time criterion the athletic data display configuration module will sort the aggregated distance data for participating users that was measured during the preceding week. It then lists the names of the participating users having the ten highest aggregated distance data values in the filter region . In addition the athletic data display configuration module will display in the aggregated distance data values measured during the preceding week for each of the identified participating users. Still further the athletic data display configuration module will display the user s corresponding aggregated distance measured for the preceding week. With some implementations of the invention the athletic data display configuration module also may display the ranking of the user s corresponding aggregated distance information measured for the preceding week relative to those participating users having a greater aggregated distance measured for the preceding week. Thus in the illustrated example the user Rauchholz has a ranking of 2932 relative to other participating users.

With some implementations of the invention the participating users will be any user who provides athletic data to the athletic data storage or to an affiliated athletic data storage . For still other implementations of the invention however the participating users may be a subset of the all of the users who provide athletic data to the athletic data storage or to an affiliated athletic data storage. For example the participating users may be only those users who agree in advance to have their data shared with other users or those users who do not specifically indicate that they wish for their athletic data to be private. Of course still other criteria may be used to determine which users will be treated as participating users.

In some situations a user may wish to limit the pool of participating users to whom the user will be compared. As previously noted the filter region includes filter controls . These filter controls may be employed to limit the participating users that will be considered for a desired comparison. For example as illustrated in a user can employ the filter control to select between including all participating users for comparison only male participating users for comparison or only female participating users for comparison. Similarly as shown in a user can employ filter control to limit the comparison to only those participating users within a desired age group. Still further as shown in a user can employ the filter control to limit the comparison to participating users within a geographic region.

It should be appreciated that with some implementations of the invention a user can employ each of the filters simultaneously. For example a user may employ the filter controls to limit the participating users considered for comparison with the users s athletic data to only men between the ages of 40 44 residing in the United States. The information required to filter the participating users may be obtained from any available source. Conveniently however the information may be obtained by requesting the users to submit this information for a user profile during an initial registration process. Of course while three specific filtering criteria have been disclosed it should be appreciated that any desired type and or combination of characteristics be employed as filters.

As discussed in detail above various implementations of the invention may provide positive reinforcement to an athlete. For example as discussed above a user can employ various embodiments of the invention to set goals for himself or herself and then track his or her progress toward attaining those goals. Similarly a user may employ various embodiments of the invention to participate in a challenge. Once the goal is completed or the challenge is won however these achievements may be forgotten and thus not provide the user with any further positive reinforcement.

Accordingly some implementations of the invention may provide a feature for memorializing a user s various athletic achievements. For example with some embodiments of the invention the athletic data display configuration module may provide a user interface such as the user interface shown in for displaying athletic achievements recorded for a user. As seen in this figure the user interface includes a goal region a challenges region an events region and a milestones region . Each of these regions can be used to display an icon representing a user s previous achievement.

For example if a user sets and then subsequently meets a goal the achievement of this goal will be recorded by the athletic data display configuration module . In response the athletic data display configuration module will display an icon such as a representation of a medal graphically commemorating that achievement. Similarly if the user wins a challenge that achievement will be recorded by the athletic data display configuration module . In response the athletic data display configuration module will display an icon such as a representation of a trophy graphically commemorating that achievement.

Still further a user may participate in an event associated with one or more implementations of the invention. For example a race sponsor such as a marathon race sponsor may affiliate itself with embodiments of the invention. If a user runs in the race completes the race or places in the race then the athletic data display configuration module may record that achievement. In response the athletic data display configuration module will display an icon such as a representation of a racing bib graphically commemorating that achievement. The athletic data display configuration module may employ any desired technique to record the user s participation in the race. For example the race sponsor may physically monitor the user s participation and subsequently update the athletic data storage directly. Alternately the user may update the athletic data storage on an honor system basis.

Of course still more sophisticated techniques can be used to have the athletic data display configuration module record the user s achievement. For example the race sponsor or a third party may provide the user with an electronic recording device that records the user s progress through the race. The user can then download the data from the electronic recording device to the athletic data storage or to the athletic data display configuration module . With some implementations of the invention the electronic interface device or the athletic parameter measurement device may even be used to record the user s progress through the race and to subsequently download the data from the electronic recording device to the athletic data storage or to the athletic data display configuration module .

Still further a user may have still other milestones associated with his or her athletic performance. For example a user may run achieve a relatively large total distance such as 100 kilometers 100 miles 250 kilometers 250 miles etc. run at a particularly fast speed such as a mile in less than five minutes or run for a relatively large total duration such as 1000 hours. In response the athletic data display configuration module may record that milestone achievement and then display an icon such as a representation of an award ribbon graphically commemorating that achievement.

In this manner various implementations of the invention can memorialize a user s past achievements to provide the user with positive feedback to inspire future athletic performance. Of course some implementations of the invention may memorialize alternate or additional achievements.

Some implementations of the invention may assist a user in resolving to achieve a specific athletic achievement and then keep that resolution. For example various embodiments of the invention may provide a user interface like the user interface illustrated in . As seen in this figure the interface provides a resolution statement with an achievement field and a consequence field . The user interface also includes a submission button . When a user wishes to make a resolution he or she can insert the desired achievement goal such as a distance into the achievement field and some task or other action that will occur if the user does not meet the stated achievement in the consequence field . Once the user has completed the information in the achievement field and the consequence field then the user actives the submission button to submit the resolution information to the athletic data display configuration module .

After receiving the resolution information the athletic data display configuration module will monitor the user s athletic activity to determine whether the user has complied with his or her resolution. If the athletic data display configuration module determines that the user has met the stated resolution then the athletic data display configuration module may provide some type of positive feedback to the user. For example the athletic data display configuration module may send the user an electronic mail message congratulating the user on keeping his or her resolution. Alternately or additionally the athletic data display configuration module may memorialize the achievement as described above. If however the user does not meet the stated resolution then the athletic data display configuration module may encourage the user to perform the specified task or action. The athletic data display configuration module may for example send an electronic mail message to the user to remind the user of his or her resolution. Of course various implementations of the invention may perform alternate or additional actions to encourage the user to perform the specified task or action.

As users or athletes such as runners utilize the systems of embodiments of the present invention to collect information a user interface of an embodiment may provide additional features and functionality for athletes to use and share information relating to their physical activity. In one exemplary form of the invention athletic information is displayed on a user interface as described in greater detail below with reference to

For example generally illustrate a mapping utility feature of the user interface of an embodiment. An athlete such as a runner can plan and create a running route according to a certain geographic area and a desired distance. For example in route prompt may allow a user to input a particular location for planning a route. The location may be for example a zip code a city state country or combination thereof. Based on the location inputted the mapping utility may then display a map of the general location. The mapping utility may provide zoom and or pan capability within the map for example with zoom bar .

The route prompt may allow the athlete to search for existing or previously submitted routes for example by other mapping utility users or athletes. The map may display route bubbles or labels such as route bubble indicating a 5.35 mile run in response to the search. Additional route bubble or label for example indicates that multiple routes are available in the area. An athlete may select route bubble or label to view additional details about the individual routes it represents. An athlete may further utilize the route prompt to draw their own route for example by selecting or drawing a route on the map with mouse or keyboard inputs. The mapping utility may also display the total distance of the route as the athlete draws and or at the conclusion of the route drawing so that the athlete may generate a route representing their desired location and length.

In particular for geographic locations such as within a large metropolitan area there may be a substantial number of available routes. To help an athlete select routes with particular lengths the mapping utility may include a distance filter . In an embodiment an athlete may select routes greater than a selected distance shorter than a selected distance or within a range of two selected distances. Further an athlete may search for routes with keyword or username filter . In particular for routes posted by individual users as will be discussed more fully below an athlete may search for routes submitted or posted by one or more individual users as identified by their username.

In an embodiment options selection is displayed within the route details . In particular for routes that have been specified by an individual athlete the athlete may utilize option selection to assign the run to share the run with one or more athletes including making the route public for all mapping utility users to view to create and or edit details for the route to create a challenge for the route and to remove the route from a list of routes associated with the individual athlete.

In an embodiment additional clubs and or rewards may be provided for increasing distances such as the 1000 Mile Club and the 1500 Mile Club etc. for example illustrates mile club . Mile club will allow members of that club to review other members of the club and new members as admitted. For example new members may be listed by their usernames avatars total distance run and date that they became members of the mile club . In an alternate screen mile club may display the entire group of existing mile club members including their usernames avatars mile club of which they are a member e.g. 100 miles 200 miles 500 miles 1000 miles and the like and the date they became mile club .

In an embodiment exclusive challenges may be issued to and among mile club members for further fitness motivation. The exclusive challenges may be issued by individual group members e.g. a challenge issued by a 500 mile club member to existing members who have already run 450 miles or more to encourage their progression to another mile club status or category or globally by the user interface to one multiple or all group members based on one or more selection criteria. For example challenge illustrates a challenge among multiple users. Challenge details may display details for a particular challenge participant such as their home town distance of their last run total distance run comments and the ability to invite additional participants to the challenge. Further dialogue prompt may allow participants to trash talk or otherwise submit motivational or encouraging text to the challenge participants. illustrates challenge in which a user may provide a picture video text or other content to offer a challenge to additional participants.

Further special merchandise such as apparel and digital music downloads may also be exclusively provided to those athletes reaching set milestones and becoming mile club members. The user interface may also provide a forum for discussion among members. In addition a member of the club can view the hierarchy of the mile club members based on for example total distance ran. This may provide additional motivation to members to log additional running miles to climb in the rankings while at the same time improving fitness levels.

Also certain colors or color schemes can be associated with each milestone or club membership wherein only a person in the club has the particular color or color scheme associated with the user s personal page of the user interface . The color could be included in the background of the particular webpage or some other color indicia indicating a milestone being met by the user.

In addition to the parameters and described above a user may further select a particular coach or athlete with which to train using drop down menu . For example if a user selects a well known athlete e.g. a celebrity as the coach or training athlete the training generator module may create a training regimen that simulates one which the well known athlete would perform or has performed. Training information for the selected athlete and other celebrities or athletes may be accessed from a remote database for example. The selected athlete s training program may be modified based on parameters and specified by the user. If a user has selected 50 intensity for instance a selected athlete s training program may be decreased by 50 run speed or other corresponding intensity activity attribute e.g. weight if the training includes weightlifting or steps per minute if the training includes an elliptical machine . Additionally if the athlete has indicated he or she would like to concentrate on endurance the selected athlete s training program may be lowered in intensity while increased in duration. Once the one or more of parameters and have been defined the user may select the create workout option to have the training generator module automatically create a customized workout in accordance with the defined parameters.

Interface may include a training schedule graph to illustrate the user s customized workout in addition to an estimate of a number of calories that will be burned through the customized workout in display area . In one or more arrangements the estimated number of calories burned provided in display area may be determined or generated based on the training parameters and defined. For example the system may calculate an estimated number of calories that will be burned for a 30 minute interval run at 75 intensity. In another example the system may calculate the estimated calorie burn based on a music parameter song or music playlist selection. For example the system may determine based on previous workouts that the user typically exceeds a specific goal or target number of calories e.g. an expected number of calories burned determined based on only the non music training parameters specified whenever a particular song type of song artist genre etc. is played. Accordingly the system may increase the estimated number of calories burned for that segment of the workout based on an average number of calories burned during the song e.g. based on a workout history an average percentage by which a target number of calories is exceeded and the like and the like.

Additionally or alternatively Training schedule graph is presented as a chart of time vs. speed and thus provides a visual representation of the athletes created workout. If the user wishes to change the workout the user may do so by modifying parameters and . Alternatively or additionally a user may manually adjust specific portions of the workout by adjusting the speed levels for example for a specific interval of time. Graph may be illustrated in terms of other or additional parameters. For example a chart of speed vs. time vs. calories may be displayed in a three dimensional graph. Colors of the graph may be indicative of intensity. Accordingly higher speeds may be indicated by red or bright colors while lower speeds may be represented by black or darker colors. In one or more arrangements hovering or otherwise interacting with one of the bars in graph may result in the generation of a pop up window displaying details about that segment of the workout.

Allowing an athlete to customize their workout may increase the investment and dedication the athlete feels towards exercising. Additionally giving the athlete such control over their workout allows the athlete to generate a workout that is commensurate with their own estimation of the athlete s athletic ability. Oftentimes an athlete may be overwhelmed by generic workouts that are directed to moderately fit or athletic individuals. In one or more configurations a user may be able to specify an amount of calories that he or she wishes to burn by entering the value in calories burned display area . Other parameters and may be automatically adjusted to reach the burned calories goal. For example the duration of the workout may be increased or decreased.

In interface an athlete may further select a training focus. For example a user may focus his or her training on beginning athletic activity running a 5K running a 10K running a half marathon running a marathon and or maintaining a current fitness level . A current fitness level may be determined from stored workout data. Training regimens for running a specified distance may include running workout of progressively increasing distance and or speed. If a user would like to choose a pre made workout he or she may select featured workout option and select one of pre generated workouts . Option for choosing a manner of selecting music to accompany the workout may be provided as discussed in further detail with respect to music playlist generation. Once the desired options have been selected a recommended or proposed workout may be displayed in chart form.

Additionally in each of the interfaces illustrated in a user may choose to name and save their workout by entering a desired name in a text box such as text box of . Interfaces may further include various music selection parameters as is discussed in greater detail below.

The training schedule produced by the training generator module described herein may be accompanied by a music selection module that generates a playlist of music to be played during the customized workout. illustrates interface wherein a user may select various music selection parameters including song or artist entry form station selection menu music source option and recommend music option . Song artist entry block provides a way for an athlete to identify a particular song or artist that the athlete likes. Upon entry of a song in form for example the music generator module may add the selected song and music thereto to a playlist for playing during the corresponding workout. Alternatively if an artist is entered in form the music generator may identify and select songs by that artist and or songs by similar artists.

Similarity of songs or artists may be determined based on music purchase and selection activity of other users. Thus if users who purchase songs by a first artist also generally purchase songs by a second artist an athlete who specifies the first artist as a desired artist or a song by the first artist as a desired song the second artist s songs might also be identified and selected by the music selection module due to a presumed similarity. Similarity might also be determined using other methods such as by comparing tempo e.g. beats per minute melody tone and the like. Song selections may also be determined by the module that may be motivating in nature or motivating in particular for the particular athlete. Additionally song selection may be performed on the fly e.g. during the workout in which the songs are to be played or prior to a workout. For example songs may be selected on the fly by selecting a song from a user s library or a remote library 30 seconds prior to the end of a currently playing song.

Station selection menu allows a user to select a live music station as a music source for his or her workout. The live music station may be an over the air OTA broadcast or alternatively or additionally a streaming music station provided over a network such as the Internet. Music source option on the other hand may be used to identify a specific source for selecting music. For example the athlete may indicate that he wishes to have music pulled i.e. selected from his or her personal library by selection option . The personal library or other music source may be housed in a local database e.g. a local hard drive or on a remote network site or both. In one arrangement a local music library may interface with a workout and music playlist generation system by using application protocols to notify the system of available music in the library. The application protocols may be provided by the workout regimen and playlist generation system to an application managing the music library.

As discussed interface may also include coach selection option . In addition or as an alternative to creating a workout similar to the selected coach coach selection option may also be used to generate a music playlist that is the same as or similar to a playlist the selected coach would use for training. For example the music selection module may identify songs that the selected coach would listen to for generating a training playlist. Music recommendation option may be used to identify songs that the system believes the user would like based on his or her music library selected songs frequently played song list and the like. A frequently played song list may include songs that are most frequently played during workouts rather than in general . The system may recommend music based on similarity as discussed herein similar purchases cost tempo genre time period country of origin among other factors. Once the above options for music playlist generation have been configured the user may select create workout option .

After a workout has been created and an associated music playlist has been generated interface of may include a training schedule graph that illustrates the user s workout. In conjunction with graph interface may include a music schedule timeline that is configured to display the beginning of each song in the playlist. For example timeline displays each song as a tick mark that is aligned with the corresponding portion of the training regimen during which the song will be played. Hovering over or otherwise interacting with one of tick marks may cause a pop up window such as pop up window of and or window of to be generated and displayed. The pop up window may provide details for the song corresponding to that particular tick mark. In some arrangements pop up window may be editable allowing a user to change the song associated with that tick mark and portion of the training regimen.

The music schedule and the music playlist may also be modified in view of the change in songs. For example if the new song is shorter than the replaced song songs that were scheduled to be played after the replaced song may be shifted forward in time to insure that there are no gaps. Alternatively or additionally other songs in the original playlist may be changed to maximize coverage of the training regimen. That is songs may be chosen to substantially fill up the duration of the training regimen if the new song modifies duration of the playlist.

Referring to a user may further select a pre generated workout such as one of workouts . The pre generated workouts may have pre selected generated playlist associated with the workout regimen. The pre generated workouts and corresponding playlists may be generated by other users celebrity trainers athletes and or coaches. The pre generated workouts and or playlists may be retrieved from a database of workouts stored in a network server or may be obtained from a local storage. Additionally or alternatively a user may select one or more genres of music that the user wishes to hear during his or her workout. One of genre options may include a singer songwriter option that allows a user to pick a particular singer or songwriter rather than or in addition to a genre of music.

Alternatively or additionally a type of coach selected may affect the type of music selected for a workout playlist. For example if a user selects a taskmaster type of coach the music may have faster beats and louder in volume. If a user selects a zenmaster i.e. calmer type of coach the music playlist generation system may select songs that are slower and softer.

A selected or generated workout regimen may be displayed immediately in portion to allow the user to preview the generated workout and music playlist prior to accepting the workout. A user may further modify specific portions of the workout independently of other portions of the workout as described herein. For example a user may hover over or otherwise interact with a portion of the displayed workout where upon an edit box not shown may appear.

Referring to a recommended workout summary may provide identification of segments of the workout in which coaching will be provided. For example the segments may be labeled with Coach 1 or other indicators to specify that coaching is scheduled to be provided during that portion of the workout.

According to one or more aspects a user may be given advice regarding whether to change a song. A music selection system may advise against changing a song for example if the user has performed favorably during the song in the past. Other reasons for advising against changing a song may include beats per minute being below a certain threshold genre not being conducive to exercising length is either too short or too long and the like. The system may also make recommendations for replacement songs. Additionally or alternatively the user may specifically identify songs that are not to be included. Accordingly songs may be filtered out of selection contention based on a user s explicit instructions. The user may also specify a genre era artist and the like to filter out of a selection database.

A training regimen may also be divided into various phases such as pre workout or pre run e.g. warm up workout or run and post workout or post run e.g. cool down . Different music playlists may be automatically generated for each of these phases. The music selection for each of these phases may also be different in view of the different purposes of the phases. For example a pre run music playlist may include songs that gradually get faster in tempo while a run music playlist may include consistently high beat tempo songs. A post run music playlist on the other hand may include songs that gradually slow down in tempo to transition the user to a calmer state. Phases and the music selection parameters associated therewith may be automatically defined or manually specified by a user. In one or more examples a post run music playlist may be created on the fly at the end of the user s run. The post run music playlist may be automatically generated based on the songs that appeared to motivate the user more so than other songs. The post run music playlist may also include live music feeds.

According to one or more aspects music selection may also be performed based on a separate or integrated GPS device or other location determination system. For example location information may be used to select a song that is most suited to that location. For example if a system determines that a user is running in a more rural environment a slower e.g. less beats per minute or softer song may be selected to match the environment. If on the other hand the user is running in a city a more upbeat and or louder song may be selected. In other arrangements a song may be selected by determining a user s current or projected elevation. Songs played during previous athletic activity at a similar elevation may then be selected for a current workout or athletic activity particularly if the user performed at or above a target or expected level e.g. a pace a number of calories burned a distance etc. . Other song selection parameters may include time of day and speed both of which may be determined using a GPS or other location determination device.

The created workout and or associated music playlist may be distributed to various athletic performance devices such as a music player a workout apparatus such as an elliptical machine or treadmill a cell phone laptop computer desktop computer home media server and the like. For example if an athlete is set to begin his or her workout on a treadmill machine the athlete may upload his or her customized workout to the treadmill to track progress and adherence to the regimen. The data recorded by the treadmill or other workout apparatus or sensor device may further be transmitted to an athletic training site e.g. a website or database the athlete s personal music player or other computing device and the like. The information may be stored so that an athlete may review how well they followed the workout regimen and whether they met their goals. The transmission of data may be wired wireless or any combination thereof. Additionally or alternatively a music playlist generation system may create a music file by combining multiple music files. The combination of the music files may in one or more example include transcoding of the music from one format to another.

Additionally or alternatively a music selection system may track a user s athletic performance in association with music information. For example a user s ability to maintain the recommended pace during a running regimen may be tracked based on the music that is being played at the time. Accordingly the music selection system may be able to identify songs that tend to motivate the athlete to meet or exceed various goals e.g. expected or estimated workout statistics determined based on user statistics and workout parameters or athletic performance thresholds. This information may then be used to select songs for future workouts. A training device may record the user s athletic performance in terms of time. The training device or an athletic performance tracking system may then use the athletic performance data to determine times during which the athlete exceeded or met the training regimen s goal and the times at which the athlete did not meet the specified goal. Thus the athletic performance tracking system may determine that the user met or exceeded the regimen s goals when a first song was playing but failed to meet the goals when a second song was being played. Accordingly a music selection system may make note of this fact by specifying a preference for selecting the first song or similar songs over the second song.

Further an order or sequence of songs selected may also be automatically defined or customized based on various athletic activity or training parameters. For example if during a portion of a workout a user is expected to increase his or her pace over a period of 10 minutes multiple songs may be selected and ordered such that each subsequent song increases in a number of beats per minute. In another example if a user is a cool down portion of the workout the system may select and order songs such that the songs become gradually softer or slower paced.

The data recorded may be displayed as an exercise curve for example in which song indicators are shown along the curve. The exercise curve may be displayed on the mobile device or an athletic training site as described above. The athlete may then use the display to identify the songs during which the athlete achieved better performance or where the level of performance declined. The music selection module may then provide song modifications for future workouts.

While the invention has been described with respect to specific examples including presently preferred modes of carrying out the invention those skilled in the art will appreciate that there are numerous variations and permutations of the above described systems and techniques that fall within the spirit and scope of the invention as set forth in the appended claims.

