---

title: Steering column with composite fibre elements produced in a braiding method
abstract: The invention relates to a steering column for a motor vehicle, comprising a steering spindle mounted rotatably in a steering spindle bearing unit, and comprising a guide bracket for connecting the steering spindle bearing unit to a body of the motor vehicle, wherein at least one component of the steering column is formed at least in part from a fiber-reinforced composite material, wherein a component has a thin-walled braided core which corresponds to the shape of the subsequent component, is formed from a thermoplastic material, and is braided with a fiber material, wherein the braided core is produced in an injection molding method and contains functional elements molded therein.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09365233&OS=09365233&RS=09365233
owner: THYSSENKRUPP PRESTA AG
number: 09365233
owner_city: Eschen
owner_country: LI
publication_date: 20130311
---
This application is a U.S. National Stage Entry of International Patent Application Serial Number PCT EP2013 000713 filed Mar. 11 2013 which claims priority to German patent application no. 102012005434.3 filed Mar. 20 2012.

The present invention relates to a steering column for a motor vehicle and to a method for producing a steering column.

Steering columns for motor vehicles are multipart subassemblies in which a steering spindle or steering shaft is mounted in a bearing unit. The bearing unit itself is often mounted pivotably with respect to a bracket so that height adjustment of the steering wheel is possible. In addition there is also often provision for the steering column to be telescopic for the purpose of adjusting the position of the steering wheel axially. The bracket itself is fastened in the body of the motor vehicle. The height adjustment and axial adjustment of the steering column may take place electromechanically or purely mechanically. Moreover the steering column is a carrier for numerous functional elements which may comprise electrical components such as steering column control stalks and operating buttons on the steering wheel and also electromechanical components such as the ignition lock. In modern motor vehicles therefore steering columns are complex subassemblies.

Steering columns not only have to ensure the mechanical functions which are necessary for the steering operation but must also minimize the risk of injury to the driver in the event of a crash by exactly defined deformation and energy absorption. These tasks are contradictory to a basic requirement in motor vehicle construction whereby the components used should have as low a weight as possible so as to keep the overall weight of the vehicle low.

For this purpose it is known to produce individual components of vehicles motor vehicle steering columns from fiber reinforced composite material.

German patent DE 698 10 553 T2 shows an adjustable steering column with a lock which has a toothed quadrant made from a glass fiber reinforced plastic.

The publication DE 10 2004 025 245 A1 discloses a hybrid crossmember of a motor vehicle using composite fiber material.

The publication WO 99 03716 which is to be considered as constituting the preamble shows an energy absorber for motor vehicles which is manufactured from a fiber material.

Methods for producing motor vehicle parts from carbon fiber braiding are likewise known for example from German patent specification DE 102 59 593 B4 which describes a braiding method which makes it possible to reinforce the carbon fiber braiding in specific regions by reversing the working direction during the braiding operation.

Proceeding from this prior art the object of the present invention is to provide a steering column in which complexly configured structural elements are stiffened by fiber reinforcement with a composite material so that a molding which is not sufficiently stable per se acquires the necessary mechanical properties by means of composite fiber material while having overall a lower weight. Moreover the object of the present invention is to provide a method by means of which structural elements on a motor vehicle steering column can be produced in the required form while at the same time the method is to be suitable for series production.

Since in a steering column for a motor vehicle with a steering spindle mounted rotatably in a steering spindle bearing unit and with a guide bracket for connecting the steering spindle bearing unit to a body of the motor vehicle at least one component of the steering column being formed at least partially from a fiber reinforced composite material there is provision further whereby a component has a braided core which corresponds to the form of the subsequent component and is made from a thin walled plastic and which is braided around with a fiber material and since the braided core is produced in an injection molding method the braided core can remain in the finished component.

Preferably the component is an element of the steering column subsequently to be manufactured which element supports the steering spindle indirectly or directly.

If there is provision further whereby the braided core contains injected functional elements these functional elements are already present after the braiding around operation and do not have to be added later. Functional elements may in this case be fastening tabs guides movement limitations or else holders for cable harnesses or the like. It is in this case also conceivable and possible to integrate functional elements for electrical contacting and active or passive vibration dampers into the braided core. Preferably the fastening elements are stamped and bent parts which are introduced into the braided core and which have been injected around in an injection molding method. These are preferably sheet metal tabs with orifices bores or recesses.

In the steering column according to the invention the guide bracket may be designed directly for fastening to the vehicle body or may be fastened indirectly to the body for example via a rotary joint and a holding bracket in order to afford the possibility of adjustment.

Suitable fiber material comprises especially fibers made from carbon carbon fibers or aramide. However further fibers made from plastic such as for example polyester or POM and also made from glass metal ceramic or natural fibers may also be used. It is conceivable and possible also to use a mixture of various fibers in particular those listed above.

In a preferred embodiment the component is a guide bracket for a steering spindle bearing unit which guide bracket is configured in cross section to be open on one side. This component may initially be injected thermoplastically as a guide bracket which is U shaped in cross section this braided core then having low inherent stability. Before the braiding around operation the braided core may be connected to an auxiliary core in order to simplify handling. The braided core which in this preferred embodiment is held by the auxiliary core is braided around and is thereby reinforced from the outside with fibers. After the curing of the composite fiber material the auxiliary core can be removed. However due to the use of an auxiliary core it is also conceivable and possible to remove the auxiliary core before the complete curing of the fiber material. Cycle times can thereby be saved in a continuous operating mode. To expose the upwardly open side of the guide bracket the fiber material is then removed there by cutting or milling.

There may also be provision for producing a steering spindle bearing unit with a thermoplastically produced braided core of low inherent stability and with braiding around with a composite fiber material. In this case preferably the braided core having the composite fiber material is manufactured as a continuous part which has multiple lengths of the finished structural element and which can then be cut into individual pieces after the curing of the composite fiber material.

Further there may be provision for removing the braided core after curing in step d. There may preferably be provision for manufacturing a plurality of similar structural elements in one production operation in that a continuous profile is used as the braided core in step a and in a further method step the workpiece thus produced is separated into individual parts after curing.

In the case of components which are to be configured to be open or partially open on one longitudinal side there may advantageously be provision in a further step after curing for opening this side by cutting or milling. This method variant has the advantage that the relatively simple manufacturing operation of braiding around on all sides with the fiber material can also be carried out on the subsequently open side and that after curing the desired structure can be provided and in this case the desired form and strength can be achieved in a similar way to structural elements which are braided around over the entire circumference. In this case there may be provision for covering the separation edges of the fibers by resin or adhesive in order to make it even more difficult for the fibers to be disentangled later.

For mounting and functioning in the steering column of the motor vehicle it is advantageous if functional elements preferably in the form of stamped and bent parts are incorporated into the braided core or are connected to the braided core. In an especially simple embodiment stamped and bent parts in the form of tabs or strips are introduced into the mold which is provided for producing the braided core and these components are then injected around in an injection molding method and are thus connected captively to the braided core.

Preferably the braiding operation is executed in such a way that the individual fiber strands are braided onto the braided core around the functional elements during the braiding operation so that the functional elements project between the individual fiber strands of the fiber material above the subsequent surface. In this case there may be provision whereby the functional elements are already arranged in the braided core such that in the subsequent braiding operation they lie between the individual fiber strands. Fiber strands may be guided at angles of about 20 to 85 with respect to the longitudinal axis of the component. The functional elements can then also be arranged at corresponding angles to the longitudinal axis of the component. In addition stationary threads as they are known may be provided which are oriented at a very small angle of about 0 or at an angle in the range of 0 to 3 for the longitudinal axis and are arranged on the surface of the braided core and are also braided in during braiding.

One or more exemplary embodiments of the present disclosure are described in more detail below by reference to the drawing figures of the present disclosure.

The tension bolt passes through long holes in the side cheeks of the holding part and holes in the side faces of the guide bracket . The cam mechanism is arranged on one end of the tension bolt and the thrust bearing is arranged on the other end of the tension bolt. The side cheeks the side faces and the jacket unit are arranged between the cam mechanism and the thrust bearing .

As a result of the actuating lever being rotated the fixing system can be selectively changed over to an open position or a closed position. In the open position the steering spindle or the steering wheel not illustrated in the figures fastened thereto can be adjusted in position in particular displaced in the longitudinal direction and the height or inclination direction . In the closed position of the fixing system the steering column is fixed in position. Steering columns of this type are known in the prior art.

Based on the example of a steering spindle bearing unit show an illustration of the steering spindle bearing unit with fiber material which is braided around a braided core the figures sometimes being illustrated highly diagrammatically.

Based on the example of a guide bracket show an illustration of the guide bracket with fiber material which is braided around a braided core the figures sometimes being illustrated highly diagrammatically.

The braided core is manufactured in an injection molding method. For this purpose the functional elements were prefabricated as sheet metal parts stamped and bent parts and introduced into an injection mold. The mold cavity of the injection mold corresponds to the braided core illustrated in . After injection molding and removal from the mold the structural element illustrated in is obtained which because of a small wall thickness and because of the lightweight injection molding material having low rigidity in this mold cannot yet be used as a steering spindle bearing unit. Insofar as it is possible cost effectively along with sufficient strength cutouts are introduced into the mold in order to save material and weight. This becomes possible because the required rigidities are achieved by braiding around and do not have to be provided by the braided core. The cutouts may be formed as through holes or as blind holes. Blind holes have the advantage that the inner space can be sealed off more easily with respect to the external circumference this being advantageous for subsequent method steps.

For manufacture the functional elements and were introduced in the form of stamped and bent parts into the mold cavity of a corresponding injection mold. As a result of the injection of the thermoplastic the wall was then manufactured which is firmly connected in a materially integral manner to the functional elements and which thus forms the braided core . The braided core by being thin walled and because of the material properties of the thermoplastic is not suitable in the present form for use in a steering column of a motor vehicle as pivoting lever. Here too cutouts may be provided in order to save material and weight.

The braided core has in cross section approximately in the region of the stops a U shaped cross sectional configuration which is delimited by an underside and two side walls and which is upwardly open in the illustration of . The guide rails are also connected to clamping jaws or arranged in the vicinity of the clamping jaws . The clamping jaws narrow the inner cross section of the braided core at one end. They complete the cross sectional configuration of the braided core in this region to form an upwardly open octagon. A steering spindle bearing unit for example according to can be introduced into this octagon. The steering spindle bearing unit is then telescopic in the longitudinal direction that is to say in the direction of a longitudinal axis of the braided core with the result that axial adjustment of a steering wheel not illustrated is achieved. This set up is basically known. The clamping jaws serve together with a clamping element arranged transversally to the longitudinal axis for locking the steering spindle bearing unit in the guide bracket in a clamping manner.

The clamping jaws may likewise be functional elements which may already be introduced into the injection mold during the production of the braided core and which are then connected to the plastic material by means of the injection molding operation.

For the further processing of the braided core braiding around with a fiber braiding preferably with carbon fibers is provided as indicated with regard to the steering spindle bearing unit in .

Also to provide a guide bracket the braided unprocessed part can be introduced into a mold and saturated with synthetic resin and can subsequently be cured and removed from the mold in a similar way to the procedure already described above for the steering spindle bearing unit. To prevent resin from penetrating into the cavity either the braided core can be closed as is not illustrated here or an additional die element may be provided which fills or shields the cavity to be formed and which thus prevents the penetration of synthetic resin.

It is therefore indicated in that the composite fiber material is cut open or separated along a margin on the top side of the braided core by means of a separation tool in order to open the top side visible in of the braided core . The composite fiber material is removed for this purpose. A suitable separation tool is in this case a severing knife or else a laser beam. Finally illustrates the end product of the manufacturing operation. The method steps described result in a braided core with functional elements and with a layer which surrounds the braided core on the outside and is composed of a composite fiber material which surrounds the braided core is internally connected to the braided core in a materially integral manner and stabilizes the braided core to an extent such that a component having the appropriate strength is obtained. The method and the materials used yield the result that the component thus produced is especially lightweight as in the case of the steering spindle bearing unit.

By virtue of a suitable production of the braided core the guide bracket as is illustrated in the examples can also be produced in the form of units arranged one behind the other. Separation takes place after the curing of the resin with which the fibers braided with one another are previously saturated.

Other components of a motor vehicle steering column may also be produced by means of the method described. It is essential for this purpose that in the first place a lightweight braided core which however is not yet suitable mechanically as a component is manufactured in an injection molding method with functional elements introduced that this braided core is braided around with a fiber braiding preferably made from carbon fiber and that the braided core is then stabilized in that a plastic material in the braiding is cured. The plastic material may in this case be introduced after the braiding around operation as in the exemplary embodiments described. Encased carbon fibers may also be used which in order to be cured merely have to be heated and cooled again. In such cases in particular alternatively to covering the marginal portion as is described in connection with cross linking of the fibers in the marginal portion may also be carried out. A method step of this type is illustrated in . The finished braided around braided core is then irradiated with a laser beam by a laser along a marginal portion and is consequently heated correspondingly. Cross linking of the marginal portion consequently takes place. After the separation of the fibers which can be performed in a completely similar way to the margin of the component is secured by the cross linking against disentanglement.

