---

title: Location based, software control of mobile devices
abstract: Methods are disclosed for controlling mobile computing devices such as laptops, PDAs and cellular telephones, based on their location. A mobile computing device may include a software-rendered map of defined geographic regions, location handlers for defining behavior of a mobile device in a given geographic region, and a location handling engine for determining when a new geographic zone has been entered and exited, and for executing and terminating location handlers accordingly.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09071938&OS=09071938&RS=09071938
owner: Microsoft Technology Licensing, LLC
number: 09071938
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130212
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 459 132 filed on Jul. 21 2006 entitled LOCATION BASED SOFTWARE CONTROL OF MOBILE DEVICES to be issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 374 623 on Feb. 12 2013 which application is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Computing devices have been miniaturized and mobilized to the point where many individuals have one or more of a laptop personal digital assistant PDA and or a smart phone with them at all times. The ubiquitous nature of mobile computing devices have given rise to several rules and restrictions as to where and how such devices may be used. For example the radio transmission and wireless networking capabilities of a mobile device may be limited to certain frequencies or prohibited altogether in certain areas in order to comply with local laws. As another example certain locations require muting of the device volume disabling of the image capture capabilities of the device and or turning the device off altogether. It is therefore necessary or desirable to configure hardware of a mobile computing device to comply with whatever restrictions may apply in the geographic location in which the mobile computing device is located.

Moreover various wireless networks have been developed which allow individuals to user their mobile devices to stay connected with a network almost anywhere they may find themselves. Such wireless networks include for example wireless personal area networks WPANs wireless local area networks WLANs wireless metropolitan area networks WiMax or WMANs and wireless wide area networks WWANs . Each of these networks may operate according to different protocols and may employ different hardware within a computing device for connectivity. As an individual travels between different geographic areas the user may wish or need to connect to different networks. For example the user may connect to a WWAN while traveling but may connect to a speedier and more secure WLAN at home or work. Mobile devices have grown in sophistication so as to include the hardware able to access different networks in different geographic areas. However hardware configuration is required in order to change between different networks.

It is well known that devices may be location aware. Software and hardware global positioning systems and the like are well known for providing location information to a mobile computing device. It is also known to automatically configure certain software applications running on a mobile computing device based on the identifiable position of a mobile computing device. For example U.S. Pat. No. 6 944 679 entitled Context Aware Systems and Methods Location Aware Systems and Methods Context Aware Vehicles and Methods of Operating the Same and Location Aware Vehicles and Methods of Operating the Same assigned to the owner of the present application discloses a system capable of determining the position of a mobile computing device and then modifying the behavior of one or more software applications running on the device based on the location information.

Embodiments of the present system in general relate to methods for controlling mobile devices such as laptops PDAs and cellular telephones based on their location. A mobile computing device may include a software rendered map of defined geographic regions location handlers for defining behavior of a mobile device in a given geographic region and a location handling engine for determining when a new geographic zone has been entered and exited and for executing and terminating location handlers accordingly.

The geographic map includes one or more geographic regions or zones in which the behavior of the mobile computing device is to be controlled. In one embodiment the geographic zones may be polygons defined by coordinate vertices in a two dimensional plane where lines between the coordinate vertices define the shape of the zone. Any number of vertices for a given geographic zone may be selected and stored in memory to define the zone in any of a variety of different polygon shapes. There may also be any number of such geographic zones defined on the geographic map. Two or more defined geographic zones may have portions which overlap including a partial overlap or a complete overlap where a first geographic zone may be completely encompassed within a second geographic zone.

One or more software instructions for controlling the behavior of a given mobile computing device may be created and stored for each geographic zone on the geographic map. The software instructions referred to herein as location handlers may be associated in memory with each geographic zone defined on the map so that when a mobile computing device crosses into a geographic zone the location handlers for that specific geographic zone may be executed. The location handlers for a given mobile computing device interact with the device s operating system to initiate terminate and or alter any of a variety of system settings on the device.

For example in an embodiment location handlers may be provided for controlling wireless network connections for a mobile computing device based on a location of the device. Location handlers may be provided for establishing a connection with any of a variety of wireless networks such as for example a WWAN WLAN WiMax and WPAN. A mobile computing device may include location handlers which cause the device to connect to a first network when in a first geographic zone to connect to a second network when in a second geographic zone to connect to a third network when in a third geographic zone etc.

The location handlers may also be used to alter other system settings. There may be instances where radio transmission on a particular frequency in a given geographic area is prohibited. Accordingly geographic zones where such restrictions exist may be defined on the map and location handlers defined to turn off radio transmission on the designated frequencies or turn off radio transmission altogether. In a further aspect of the present system geographic zones and associated location handlers may be defined to control the multimedia properties of a mobile computing device such as for example volume photo and video capture and device display. Location handlers may also be provided on a device which power down the device altogether upon entry into a defined geographic zone.

The geographic map and location handlers may be stored in memory on a mobile computing device. Alternatively the geographic map and or location handlers may be stored centrally on a server to which mobile devices may be network connected. In such an embodiment upon entry into a geographic zone the device may access the server and then download and execute the location handlers for that zone. For example in Windows operating system devices the location handlers may be associated with a group policy. Such an embodiment has an advantage of centralized management of devices in that a network administrator may quickly and easily add delete and or modify one or more location handlers for a plurality of mobile computing devices. Policies may be set up so that different users of a given device receive different location handlers based on any number of criteria.

The location handling engine may be provided for determining when a new geographic zone has been entered and exited and for executing and terminating location handlers accordingly. The location handling engine may be stored in memory of the mobile computing device. Upon a determination by the location handling engine that a mobile computing device has crossed a boundary into a geographic zone the location handlers for that zone may be executed. Similarly upon a determination by the location handling engine that a mobile computing device has crossed a boundary out of a geographic zone the location handlers for that zone may be stopped or reversed.

Embodiments of the present system will now be described with reference to which in general relate to methods for controlling mobile devices based on their location. As explained hereinafter the present invention may operate with a variety of mobile computing devices. is an illustration of a computing environment configured as a laptop a handheld computer or computer which may be incorporated into a moving vehicle such as a car bicycle train airplane boat or other moving structure. The mobile computing device shown in is only one example of a suitable operating environment and is not intended to suggest any limitation as to the scope of use or functionality of the invention. Other known mobile computing systems environments and or configurations that may be suitable for use with the present system include but are not limited to PDAs cellular telephones multiprocessor systems microprocessor based systems programmable consumer electronics minicomputers distributed computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices and the like.

With reference to an exemplary system for implementing the invention includes a mobile computing device such as mobile computing device . In a basic configuration mobile computing device may include at least one processing unit and memory . Depending on the exact configuration and type of computing device memory may be volatile such as RAM non volatile such as ROM flash memory etc. or some combination of the two. Additionally device may also have additional features functionality. For example device may also include additional storage removable and or non removable including but not limited to magnetic or optical disks or tape. Such additional storage is illustrated in by removable storage and non removable storage .

Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Memory removable storage and non removable storage are all examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can accessed by device . Any such computer storage media may be part of device .

An operating system may be resident in the memory and executes on the processor . The operating system may for example be the Windows operating system from Microsoft Corporation or other operating system. One or more application programs may be loaded into memory and run on the operating system . Examples of applications include email programs scheduling programs PIM personal information management programs word processing programs spreadsheet programs Internet browser programs and so forth.

Moreover memory may further include a system for controlling the mobile computing device based on its location as explained hereinafter. The present system may include a software rendered map of defined geographic regions location handlers for defining behavior of a mobile device in a given geographic region and a location handling engine for determining when a new geographic region has been entered and exited and for executing and terminating location handlers accordingly. While the map location handlers and location handling engine are shown as separate modules it is understood that two or more of these modules may be combined together. For example the location handlers may be combined as part of location handling engine . Each of the map location handlers and location handling engine according to the present system are explained in greater detail hereinafter.

Mobile computing device may also contain communications connection s that allow the device to communicate with other devices. Communications connection s is an example of communication media. Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media includes wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media. The term computer readable media as used herein includes both storage media and communication media.

Device may also have input device s such as keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device etc. Output device s such as a display speakers printer etc. may also be included. All these devices are well know in the art and need not be discussed at length here. As explained hereinafter mobile computing device may further include a location identification system such as global positioning system chipset .

Those of skill in the art would appreciate that many modifications substitutions and or additions may be made to the mobile computing device shown in .

The present system works in conjunction with a location identification system of known construction for identifying a location of the mobile device. For example mobile computing devices such as laptops PDAs cellular telephones and computers in vehicles may include a global positioning system GPS chipset as shown in . The chipset includes a receiver for receiving timing signals from a network of GPS satellites orbiting the Earth which allow the chipset to accurately determine its position longitude latitude and altitude .

It is understood that other known location identification systems may be used in conjunction with the present system. Another class of wide area location technology is provided by wireless phone service companies and uses cell tower observations of cell phones and other mobile devices to estimate the device s location. There are also several location identification systems adapted for use in smaller areas such as for example Microsoft Research s RADAR system. Microsoft s RADAR uses 802.11 LAN wireless networking technology which allows wireless LAN enabled mobile devices to compute locations based on signal strengths of known infrastructure access points APs . Other location identification technologies are contemplated. It is understood that in embodiments of the present system the location identification system need not have the capability to precisely identify the position of the mobile device. For example in embodiments location to within the nearest 100 feet may be sufficient. The precision of the location identification device may be greater than that or less than that in alternative embodiments.

An aspect of the present system involves the creation and storage in memory of a geographic map . Map includes one or more geographic regions or zones in which the behavior of the mobile computing device is to be controlled. In one embodiment the geographic zones may be polygons defined by coordinate vertices in a two dimensional plane where lines between the coordinate vertices define the shape of the zone. For example shows a geographic map including a pair of geographic zones and . As shown in each zone may be defined by a plurality of vertices x y with each vertices representing a particular geographic point on map . A first set of the vertices for example x y through x y may be designated in memory as defining first geographic zone and a second set of vertices for example x y through x y may be designated in memory as defining second geographic zone . There may be any number of such geographic zones defined on the geographic map according to embodiments of the present system.

The vertices of each polygon zone may be stored in memory as symbolic values on a Cartesian plane. For example the coordinates x y through x y may be stored as 0 0 0 1 1 1 and 1 0 respectively. Each symbolic vertex could then be mapped to an actual real world geographic point on the Earth using a look up table stored in association with the vertices. Alternatively the vertices may have actual longitude and latitude values.

The order with which the coordinates are stored may define the shape of each given geographic zone. For example the set of vertices 0 0 1 0 1 1 0 1 0 0 would represent an area with lines from 

It is understood that any number of vertices for a given geographic zone may be selected and stored to define the zone in any of a variety of different polygon shapes. Moreover it is contemplated that two or more defined geographic zones may have portions which overlap. The overlap may be partial as shown in or the overlap may be complete as shown in .

A geographic map may be uniquely created for each mobile computing device. Alternatively two or more mobile computing devices may share the same geographic map. The geographic map including one or more geographic zones may be generated for example by a user or an IT administrator and then stored in memory on a mobile computing device. Alternatively a geographic map may be stored remotely from a mobile computing device and downloaded to the mobile computing device via a portable memory or via a network connection such as for example the Internet.

A map may be set up via the user interface on the mobile computing device or by an administrator using a different computing device. In one embodiment for setting up the map one or more real world geographical maps may be presented to the user administrator and the user administrator may use a mouse to select points on the real world map. Those points may then be translated into symbolic coordinates and stored with an association to the real world coordinates as described above or they may be stored as the real world coordinates longitude and latitude as described above.

It is understood that the above description relates to one embodiment for generating a geographic map . It is understood that one or more geographic zones for which the behavior of the mobile computing device are controlled may be generated by a variety of other known methods in alternative embodiments of the present system.

In accordance with a further aspect of the present system one or more software instructions for controlling the behavior of a given mobile computing device may be created and stored for each geographic zone on map . One or more software instructions referred to herein as location handlers may be associated in memory with each geographic zone defined on map . When a mobile computing device crosses into a geographic zone the location handlers for that specific geographic zone may be executed. Each mobile computing device may have location handlers that are customized for that particular computing device. However two or more mobile computing devices may have the same location handlers in embodiments of the present system. Where two mobile computing devices share the same geographic map the location handlers for those two devices may be the same as each other or different from each other.

The location handlers for a given mobile computing device specify the behavior of the mobile device upon entry into a given geographic zone designated on map . The method according to the present system for determining when a mobile computing device enters or exits a particular geographic zone will be explained hereinafter in greater detail. Operating system application programming interfaces APIs allow the location handlers to interact with a device s operating system to initiate terminate and or alter any of a variety of system settings on the device.

For example in an embodiment location handlers may be provided for controlling wireless network connections for a mobile computing device based on a location of the device. As indicated in the Background section mobile computing devices currently have the sophistication to connect to several different wireless networks including for example WWAN WLAN WiMax and WPAN. A mobile computing device may include location handlers which cause the device to connect to a first network for example a WWAN when in a first geographic zone and to connect to a second network for example a WLAN when in a second geographic zone. Any number of different network connections may be defined for different geographic zones.

The actual syntax of a location handler for connecting to a specific wireless network upon entry into a specific geographic zone will vary depending on the type of mobile computing device executing the location handler. For example in a laptop computer or computer in a vehicle one or more wireless networking options may exist. A user may set up a connection to a WLAN in a known manner for example specifying an SSID and security options. A user may also set up a connection to a WWAN via a wireless service provider. A user may also set up a connection to a WPAN using for example the Bluetooth specification. When one or more of these wireless networking options have been setup on a laptop a location handler may be provided which when executed causes the laptop to search for a connection to the specified network and to connect to that network once the network connection is found. A network connection may require logon authentication. The user may be prompted via the device user interface to enter the logon information. Alternatively the logon information may be included as part of the location handler to automatically complete the logon to the specified network upon execution of the location handler.

In the example of a laptop or computing device in a vehicle the syntax of the location handler for connecting to each type of wireless network e.g. WWAN WiMax WLAN WPAN etc. is known. The location handler interacts with the Windows operating system or whatever operating system is running on the laptop to accomplish the same effect had the user manually connected to the specified network using the device user interface.

Other types of mobile computing devices such as PDAs and cellular telephones may similarly include location handlers which execute upon entry into a specified geographic zone to cause those devices to connect to a wireless network based on the location of the device. The actual syntax of the location handlers for connecting such devices to each type of wireless network is known and would accomplish the same effect had the user manually connected to the specific network using the device user interface.

In each embodiment described above the location handler may automatically connect to the specified network upon entry into a new geographic zone. Alternatively the location handler may provide an alert via the mobile device providing the user with the option to connect to the specified network. It may happen that a desired network specified by a location handler may not be available upon an attempt to connect. In such an event the location handler may specify other wireless networks to connect to in the event the primary network is unavailable.

Using location handlers to connect to a specific wireless network based on location as described above may have several uses and benefits. For example one geographic zone defined on map may be that of a user s office. In such an embodiment location handlers may be provided that automatically switch from using a WWAN to using a WLAN when a laptop moves from outside the user s office network area into the user s office network area and vice versa . A similar geographic zone and location handlers may be defined for the user s home or other WLAN network.

In a further embodiment instead of switching between two different types of wireless networks e.g. WWAN to WLAN WLAN to WPAN etc. the present system may be used to automatically switch between two different wireless networks of the same type e.g. a first WWAN to a second WWAN a first WLAN to a second WLAN etc. . For example there may be a pair of wireless service provider operators X and Y each providing WWAN service. Operator X may offer a high bandwidth connection such as HSDPA in a first geographic zone and low bandwidth such as GPRS outside of that first geographic zone. Conversely Operator Y may offer high bandwidth in the second geographic zone and low bandwidth outside of that second geographic zone. In this instance the first and second geographic zones may be defined on map and location handlers may be provided so that the user s mobile computing device detects when the user is passing from the first to the second zone and then either automatically switch from operator X to operator Y or provide the user with an option to switch operators and use the higher bandwidth connection.

There may be instances where radio transmission on a particular frequency in a given geographic area is prohibited. Accordingly in further embodiments of the present system geographic zones where such restrictions exist may be defined on map and location handlers defined and associated with those geographic areas. Upon entry into such areas the location handlers for those areas may execute and interact with the computing device s operating system in a known manner to turn off radio transmission on the designated frequencies or turn off radio transmission altogether. The location handler may or may not specify that the radio transmission be restored upon leaving that geographic zone.

In a further aspect of the present system geographic zones and associated location handlers may be defined to control the multimedia properties of a mobile computing device . For example location handlers may be provided on a mobile computing device which turn the volume of the device up down off or on upon entry into a defined geographic zone. Location handlers may be provided on a device which disable or enable the photo or video capture capabilities of the device for defined geographic zones. Location handlers may be provided on a device which disable or enable the device display for defined geographic zones. The above described location handlers may or may not specify the reverse action upon exiting a geographic zone. Location handlers may also be provided on a device which power down the device altogether upon entry into a defined geographic zone.

In further embodiment of the present system geographic zones and associated location handlers may be defined to change regional settings on a mobile computing device upon moving into a new region. For example location handlers may be provided on a device to set the time date daylight savings etc. on the device for different defined geographic zones.

As indicated above each device may be customized with its own defined geographic zones and its own location handlers associated with the geographic zones. In embodiments a plurality of mobile devices may share one or more or exactly the same geographic zones and location handlers. In embodiments a plurality of mobile devices may have the same geographic zone but the location handlers on a first mobile device e.g. a first laptop for that zone may be different than the location handlers on a second mobile device e.g. a second laptop for that zone. Similarly a plurality of mobile devices may have the same geographic zone but the location handlers on a first type of mobile device e.g. a laptop for that zone may be different than the location handlers on a second type of mobile device e.g. a cellular phone for that zone.

As indicated in different defined geographic zones on map may partially overlap and as indicated in a first zone may completely overlap so that a first zone is completely included or encompassed within a second zone. It may happen that the location handlers for overlapping or encompassed zones are not in conflict with each other. In this situation the location handlers for both zones may have been executed and are in effect while in the overlapping encompassed area. However it may happen that conflicts arise between location handlers for overlapping or encompassed zones. For example referring to a device may include location handlers associated with zone which connect the device to a first network when in zone and the device may include location handlers associated with zone which connect the device to a second network when in zone . A conflict may therefore exist in the overlapping area of zones and .

The present system may handle conflicts a number of ways. In an embodiment a priority may be expressed in the location handlers of overlapping zones which indicates which location handler takes priority in conflict areas. The priority may be user defined or they may be based on a hierarchical weighting of the various wireless networks. In a further embodiment the system may prompt the user over the device interface in the event of a conflict and ask the user to select one location handler for execution. In a further embodiment when there are conflicting location handlers the priority may be set by an administrator using group policy. In a still further embodiment where two or more zones overlap the overlapping area may be treated as another independent zone having its own location handlers. For example in the overlap area may be separated from zones and so that there are three independent and non overlapping geographic zones zone zone and the third zone defined by the intersection between zones and . In such embodiments each of the three zones may include its own set of location handlers none of which being in conflict with the others as there are no overlapping areas.

As with the geographic map location handlers may be stored in memory on a mobile computing device. Alternatively the geographic map and or location handlers may be stored centrally on a server to which mobile devices may be network connected. In such an embodiment upon entry into a geographic zone the device may access the server and then download and execute the location handlers for that zone. For example in Windows operating system devices the location handlers may be associated with a group policy. Such an embodiment has an advantage of centralized management of devices in that a network administrator may quickly and easily add delete and or modify one or more location handlers for a plurality of mobile computing devices. Policies may be set up so that different users of a given device e.g. laptops receive different location handlers based on any number of criteria seniority security clearance corporate group within the company etc . Policies may also be set up so that different types of devices e.g. laptops and PDAs receive different location handlers.

Location handlers may be set up via the user interface on the mobile computing device or by an administrator using a different computing device. In one embodiment for defining location handlers the user administrator may be presented with a graphical user interface which allows the user administrator to manually run through the steps to be performed by a location handler and then have the instructions for carrying out those manual steps encoded into the location handler.

A further aspect of the present system involves a location handling engine for determining when a new geographic zone has been entered and exited and for executing and terminating location handlers accordingly. The location handling engine may be stored in memory of the mobile computing device. A flowchart of the operation of an embodiment of the location handling engine of the present system in a mobile computing device will now be explained with reference to .

Typically the location handling engine initiates the execution of one or more location handlers upon the crossing of a border into or out of a geographical zone. However it may happen that a user is first powering up his or her mobile computing device. Therefore in a step the location handling engine first checks whether the device is initially being powered up. If so the engine queries the GPS unit to determine the current position of the device in step . The engine then compares that position against the geographic map in step to determine whether the device is currently within a defined geographic zone. If not the engine continues to step to get a new location of device as explained hereinafter with respect to step . On the other hand if it is determined in step that the device is currently within a defined geographic zone the engine loops to step to execute location handlers for that zone as explained hereinafter with respect to step .

If the mobile device has not just powered up in step the engine performs a step of periodically receiving a new location of the mobile computing device for example once every second though the period may be shorter or longer than that in alternative embodiments . APIs may be provided for communication between the location handling engine and the GPS chipset or other location identification system included on or associated with the mobile computing device.

In step the engine maps the new location Lof the device to the geographic zones on map . In step the vector path of travel of the device is determined using the present location of the device and the location of the device at the prior point in time L when location was last measured. For example where the position Lis expressed as a two dimensional coordinate a b and L c d then the line L between the old and new locations may be determined by the equation 0. 1 A 2 dimensional coordinate system is used for illustration. However those of skill will appreciate that the above may be expanded to encompass higher dimensional coordinate systems. The distance from Lto Lmay be obtained by the equation sqrt a c 2 b d 2 using the values of Land Lused above. Other methods may be employed for determining the vector travel of the device from Lto L.

In step the engine determines whether the path of travel of the device from Lto Lhas crossed over a boundary of a geographic zone. In particular the vertices of the geographic zones described above define a plurality of edges for each geographic zone. For example where two adjacent coordinates x y and x y define an edge E of a geographic zone the edge E may be expressed in a form similar to Equation 1 from the preceding paragraph 0.

The engine may then determine whether the path of travel of the device has crossed over intersected with any of the edges of the geographic zones. In particular the line L representing the path of travel of the device may intersect and cross over the edge E of a geographic zone at an intersection point P px py given by 0 and 0. Such an intersection point P of line L and edge E exists it will not exist where P and E are parallel to each other if the following conditions are true the distance distance distance and the distance 12 distance 1 distance 2 where E and E are the endpoints x y and x y of the edge E. It is understood that there are other methods for determining whether a mobile computing device crosses over an edge of a geographic zone.

If it is determined in step that no boundary has been crossed the engine returns to step to retrieve a new location of the device. On the other hand if it is determined in step that a boundary has been crossed the engine identifies the zone into which the device has crossed in step and the engine identifies the set of location handlers Sfor that zone. In step the engine executes the location handlers in S. As explained above the location handlers may interact with a device s operating system to initiate terminate and or alter any of a variety of system settings on the device.

In step the engine may identify the set of location handlers Sfrom Lthat may need to be terminated. As indicated above geographic zones may overlap and in embodiments entry into a new zone does not necessarily imply that an old zone has been left. Thus in embodiments in addition to checking whether the boundary of a new zone has been crossed as described above the engine may also check whether a boundary of an old zone has been crossed in a similar fashion. In embodiments where all overlapping zones are redefined into a group of non overlapping zones as described above crossing over a boundary would in fact mean that an old zone has been exited. Where it is determined that an old zone has been left the location handlers for that old zone may be stopped or reversed in step .

As indicated above the location handling engine may be located in memory of the mobile computing device . In an alternative embodiment the location handling engine may be stored remotely from device such as for example on a central server. This central server may also store the location handlers . In such an embodiment the mobile computing device may periodically determine its location as explained above and then send the location information to the central server. The central server would then look up a map on the central server or elsewhere and determine if any location handlers for the querying mobile computing device need to be invoked. If any handlers need to be invoked the central server may send those location handlers to the mobile computing device for execution.

The foregoing detailed description of the inventive system has been presented for purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the inventive system to the precise form disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teaching. The described embodiments were chosen in order to best explain the principles of the inventive system and its practical application to thereby enable others skilled in the art to best utilize the inventive system in various embodiments and with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated. It is intended that the scope of the inventive system be defined by the claims appended hereto.

