---

title: Electronic publishing mechanisms
abstract: A content publisher can use a publisher tool to tag various content elements, which enables a user viewing content from the publisher to view related advertising. In at least some embodiments, the tool is a toolbar that the publisher can use to tag content elements such as images and text, whereby the toolbar can recommend related items to be linked to those content elements. The items can be associated with an entity, such as an advertiser or electronic retailer, that will provide some level of compensation to the publisher in return for the linking. Such an approach enables the publisher to monetize the content in a way that is minimally intrusive for the end user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09582156&OS=09582156&RS=09582156
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 09582156
owner_city: Reno
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130418
---
This application claims priority from India Provisional Patent Application No. 3390 DEL 2012 filed Nov. 2 2012 entitled ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING MECHANISMS which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety for all purposes.

Users are increasingly utilizing electronic devices to access content such as news articles product reviews and the like. Oftentimes the publishers of the content would like to be able to offer advertising or other sponsored elements that enable the publishers to monetize the content whereby the providers can continue to offer the content to users. In many instances however excessive advertising displayed with content can degrade the user experience and keep users from viewing the content. A problem exists then with how to best enable content publishers or providers to obtain payment for the providing of the content in a way that is not overly intrusive to users viewing that content.

Systems and methods in accordance with various embodiments of the present disclosure overcome one or more of the above referenced and other deficiencies in conventional approaches to providing advertising or sponsored content in an electronic environment. In particular various approaches enable content publishers to tag various content elements and associate those elements with products or advertising enabling those publishers to monetize content in a way that is less intrusive than other conventional approaches.

Various other functions and advantages are described and suggested below as may be provided in accordance with the various embodiments.

As mentioned the article can be provided by an entity such as a publisher or content provider and the article can be accessed through any of a number of potential sites portals or other such interfaces. In order to obtain compensation for providing the content the provider in some instances can charge for the content. As is utilized in many situations however a provider can prefer to offer advertising to help pay for the providing of the content. Conventional approaches could cause a banner ad or other static advertising to be displayed with the content in the view of . Including too much advertising in such a situation can degrade the user experience and cause the user to be less interested in viewing the content or subsequently accessing additional content from that provider.

Accordingly approaches in accordance with various embodiments provide mechanisms that enable content providers or other such entities to include advertising in content in a way that is minimally intrusive. In some embodiments a publisher toolkit is provided that enables entities to perform tasks such as link building advertising placement and performance analysis. Such a toolkit can simplify the process enabling publishers or other entities to more easily monetize their content.

The user can select the image or an item displayed in the image. In either case a process can be used to attempt to identify the object of interest in the image and attempt to define a bounding box for that item as illustrated in the situation of . The bounding box can be editable or adjustable by the user in order to define the region of the object or item to be tagged. The bounding box can include some of the area outside the item of interest in order to allow for some inaccuracy in user selection due to the size of a touch screen or other such limitation. The interface can also provide an interface element such as a modal window or secondary panel that includes one or more options for locating or selecting information to be utilized with the tag. In this example a text box is displayed that enables a user to enter information to be used in searching for an item such as an item e.g. a product service or electronic file offered for consumption e.g. purchase rent lease or download through an electronic marketplace or advertising offered through an advertising entity among other such options. In other embodiments image or text recognition might be used at least for images to attempt to identify an object in the image and provide suggested text and or related content. In some embodiments content can be pre processed to indicate images where objects are recognized and tags might be appropriate. In the provider has entered information for the camera in the image and the system has located potential matches as may be located in an electronic catalog associated with the electronic marketplace on a third party Web site or in other such locations. Another view of the window associated with the tagged image can include information for one or more matching items from which the user can select. Although a product name is shown it should be understood that any appropriate content could be provided such as may include camera or Acme camera. As illustrated in the interface then can provide a view including the information for the selected item as it will appear in an interface element associated with the tagged image . If the provider is satisfied with the selection the provider can confirm the selection. When the provider comes back to the content the provider can see different options when interacting with tagged content such as options to edit or delete the tag and or association. When a user subsequently interacts with the image such as by hovering a cursor over the image or touching the image via a touch screen the interface element with the selected content can be displayed to the user. The user then can have options such as to view more information for the item purchase the item visit a site offering the item etc. For any or all of these options the publisher can potentially receive monetary or other compensation from a party such as a provider of the marketplace provider of the item advertising entity etc.

In some embodiments the provider does not have to select a specific product but can select content elements determined to have related options. For example in the view of the provider selected a term that has related products or content but may not have specified a particular instance of content. When a user subsequently interacts with that term in the content the user can see a view of content related to that term here including a product a Web page and a portion of a social networking site the selection of any of those instances by the user resulting in the publisher receiving appropriate compensation. In some embodiments the publisher might have specified one or more instances of content but the system might show additional instances. In some embodiments the system might have the authorization to change the instance of content linked to a tagged term or image for example such as to show the latest version a similar but more recommended item etc. Further the types of additional suggestions can vary as a publisher might link a product or advertisement but the additional or replacement content instances shown might include links to Web pages applications etc. The suggestions can also be selected based at least in part upon various types of contextual information which can result in different instances being shown to different users for the same tag or different instances being shown to the same user at different times and or locations. In at least some embodiments the content instance s shown for a tag can be determined at approximately the time of rendering the main content or the interaction with a tagged content element allowing for dynamic determinations for tag associations. Tag determinations and or associations can be based on information such as user behavior or profile information location time of day time of year other links or content on the page content viewed or accessed by others accessing that content etc. Such an approach enables the linked content to be updated over time and to provide content that will likely be more relevant to the user at the time of presentation. In some embodiments users can also create or suggest tags or links for tags and can provide feedback when tags or links are incorrect or inappropriate etc. In some embodiments the system can recognize content that has been tagged and can provide appropriate information depending upon how much of the content is shown in a current view the size or resolution of the display for the content and other such information. The system can also monitor how often tags or links are followed result in revenue generation etc. and can remove or add tags based at least in part upon this information as the number of ads might be kept to a minimum to improve user experience and only tags that perform to at least a certain level over time might remain in the content.

The ability to tag content elements such as text or images with associated information will be referred to herein as in text and in image linking respectively. Approaches discussed herein provide for such linking in a scalable extensible and globalized manner. A publishing toolkit such as that described also allows for easy productizing or monetizing of content using a platform that is site safe e.g. works across multiple applications and technologies is scalable has relatively low latencies e.g. less than 100 milliseconds can provide for secure authentication and other such functionality and can utilize common scripting approaches such as JavaScript. Certain embodiments also enable the sharing of products outside for example the environment of an electronic marketplace.

Various scenarios can be supported. For example in image ads can allow a content provider to link parts of the provider s images to product identifiers of an electronic marketplace and advertisements for the related products can be displayed when end users browsing the content hover over the images to know more information. A provider can for example link to the exact skirt hat or earring that a model is wearing in an image which can help consumers easily identify these branded apparel or accessories and purchase from the marketplace which can result in compensation for the content provider. A similar scenario provides for in text ads where providers can focus on the content while writing and worry about link building to the marketplace or advertising entity at a later point in time. Also providers may like to have a simple and easy way to create these links right from their websites or systems for example rather than searching for a given product or advertisement each time. With a publisher toolkit or other such offering discussed or suggested herein content providers can continue to write uninterrupted and when the page goes live the provider can simply select the relevant text or images in their article and link back to specific products services or advertisements etc. These links then can be presented to end users as pop over preview ads for example in addition to being linked back to the corresponding information. This not only helps provider the publisher with easy content writing and link building but also better monetizes their content in a non intrusive manner.

A scenario supported by various embodiments allows for the triggering of viral social marketing campaigns. In addition to conventional options for ads such as obtaining more information or purchasing a products customers can have options that relate to social media platforms. Consumers can interact with the ads in newer ways as a consumer or end user can like or recommend a product which can cause information for that product to be posted on a social networking site. An end user can also share information about the product indicate that they own or want the product etc. Once shared via social media these influence the buying decisions of the community which in turn now drives traffic to the electronic marketplace or ad provider and can result in compensation for the content provider.

As indicated in some embodiments the functionality can be offered through a publisher toolbar that will be displayed to a user validated as a publishing entity or other such user. One such toolbar can include features such as sign in and sign out add or edit tags edit settings report problems access help etc. The toolbar can include functionality to identify whether the user accessing the content is the actual publisher and if so can display the toolbar in minimized or maximized fashion for example as may be based on previous settings of the publisher. The publisher can have the option to minimize or hide the toolbar at any time among other such options.

The toolbar can be the starting point for adding or editing tags as mentioned above. In an example workflow a publisher clicks on the word Tag on the toolbar. This puts the page on Edit mode. On Edit mode the content e.g. image and or text that can be tagged can be displayed and the rest of the content that cannot be tagged can be grayed out or otherwise designated. For example images below a designated size e.g. 1 1 beacons small thumbnails etc. might not be allowed to be tagged. The publisher then can select parts of an image or text and the product finder search widget will pop over. The publisher then can search and select a specific product whereby an image hotspot can be created or parts of the text selected then mapped to the associated information such as a product identifier. When the end user loads the page the user can start accessing these ads.

In at least some embodiments at least some level of discoverability for end users can be required. There may not be tagged images on every website for example hence expecting users to mouse over and see in image ads cannot be expected. To address this tagged links might be marked separately such as with a designated colored border and or with a pulsating e.g. live images with heartbeat but non intrusive animation to show tagged images. On first mouse over or initial load time all the ads on the page might appear and then disappear after some time to indicate to the user that ads or tags exist there. The next time the user may be inclined to mouse over and only specific content related to the relevant content item might be displayed. These options should not be intrusive however the user can have an option to customize or turn off such display.

When editing image links editable images can be shown separately. All the content elements that cannot be tagged can be designated as discussed or the interface can show an option such as Tag Element over each element that can be tagged among other such options. To edit or remove a link the publisher can click on elements such as remove link and edit link buttons that appear beneath the ad pop over. Upon edit the search widget can be removed and the tag deleted. Editing an image can edit the links on all its instances wherever the image shows on the publisher website or related location. Multiple links can be created one over the other. In at least some embodiments it can be up to the publisher to add links in a proper way. Various types of images e.g. JPG JPEG PNG GIF or BMP can be supported while types of elements such as flash elements or PDF documents might be ignored. When building links there can be an ability to preview the links and changes saved for publishing when completed. In at least some embodiments multiple links cannot be created for the same text element. If someone selects another link the system can show the old ad preview with edit and or remove options etc.

A search widget or product finder can be displayed whenever a content element such as an image map or text is selected. In the search box the system can pre fill the search box with the selected text for text links and automatically kick off the search. The entire pre filled text can be in highlight mode so that the publisher can still just type over it to search for a new string without having to spend extra mouse clicks keyboard strokes to clean up the search text box. In addition to product information for example the associated information can also relate to categories of items search pages brand pages external advertising etc.

There can be restrictions on ads in at least some embodiments such as where the ads are to be aesthetically pleasing and as non intrusive as possible while presenting the right set of information about a product. The ad in at least some embodiments should look compact and as small as possible though without looking cramped for space. The elements of the ad can vary as may include product information and various user actions in at least some embodiments. This can include information such as an image and title of a product along with description customer ratings and the like. The user actions can include a purchase option and or one or more social media options as discussed. The information can also include any appropriate legal branding and or privacy information as may include the word Privacy and a link to an opt out page.

In some embodiments users can set various preferences such as for the colors or formats of pop overs. Users can build preferences on the toolbar and save these. While creating links the developer can choose the preference type to use which can be exposed on the product finder pop over above the search box in at least some embodiments. Irrespective of the tagged image discoverability problem is addressed the publisher can be empowered to customize the look and feel of various effects or even turn off all effects. For debugging purposes publishers can be allowed to turn off in image in text ads for some period of time.

As mentioned the publishing tool functionality can include the collection of various metrics and or generation of various reports. These metrics can include for example number of impressions click through rate number of clicks conversion information number of items ordered number of items shipped advertising fees and other information known or used for monitoring aspects of advertising. Reports can include metrics such as number of page impressions number of mouse overs on an image number of mouse overs on an ad number of clicks click through rate units conversion information earnings profits etc. The system can also show the performance metrics as captured above per each image tagged. That way the publisher knows which images convert better than others. In some embodiments a summary report can be shown for overall associate metrics not just publisher tool with data such as impressions clicks conversion and earnings. There can also be an option on the summary report to show the entire as an overlay on the publisher site to see more details etc.

There can be various security considerations. A publisher interested in trying out the service can to enter his account information and accept the terms of use shown only once . In the next step the publisher can be provided with script to add to a Website instances of content or anywhere the publisher wants the functionality to be available. Once that is done the publisher can select a Start verification or similar option. The provider of the tool can then verify if the associate is the real publisher owning the site and tie the associate and publisher account information. The next time the publisher comes to the website the tool can read the information e.g. a cookie and identify the publisher to put the tool in edit mode. All authentication and publisher facing flows might be offered only via a secure connection.

Various other functionality can be offered as well within the scope of the various embodiments. For example tagging of images based on visual similarities can be supported. For example a blogger can add an image of an item and the publisher tool can crawl the text and image to makes product references or suggestions. In some embodiments product and hotspot information can be embedded into the image metadata. A repository of tagged images which already have product references and can be used in any page can be provided which is accessible through the publisher tool. In at least some embodiments the tag information can be rendered differently on tablets and mobile devices than notebook computers or other such devices. In some embodiments the toolbar can be embedded in a page to help tag text and images not as a control panel and not in the browser with ads then delivered dynamically.

As discussed different approaches can be implemented in various environments in accordance with the described embodiments. For example illustrates an example of an environment for implementing aspects in accordance with various embodiments. As will be appreciated although a Web based environment is used for purposes of explanation different environments may be used as appropriate to implement various embodiments. The system includes an electronic client device which can include any appropriate device operable to send and receive requests messages or information over an appropriate network and convey information back to a user of the device. Examples of such client devices include personal computers cell phones handheld messaging devices laptop computers set top boxes personal data assistants electronic book readers and the like. The network can include any appropriate network including an intranet the Internet a cellular network a local area network or any other such network or combination thereof. Components used for such a system can depend at least in part upon the type of network and or environment selected. Protocols and components for communicating via such a network are well known and will not be discussed herein in detail. Communication over the network can be enabled via wired or wireless connections and combinations thereof. In this example the network includes the Internet as the environment includes a Web server for receiving requests and serving content in response thereto although for other networks an alternative device serving a similar purpose could be used as would be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art.

The illustrative environment includes at least one application server and a data store . It should be understood that there can be several application servers layers or other elements processes or components which may be chained or otherwise configured which can interact to perform tasks such as obtaining data from an appropriate data store. As used herein the term data store refers to any device or combination of devices capable of storing accessing and retrieving data which may include any combination and number of data servers databases data storage devices and data storage media in any standard distributed or clustered environment. The application server can include any appropriate hardware and software for integrating with the data store as needed to execute aspects of one or more applications for the client device and handling a majority of the data access and business logic for an application. The application server provides access control services in cooperation with the data store and is able to generate content such as text graphics audio and or video to be transferred to the user which may be served to the user by the Web server in the form of HTML XML or another appropriate structured language in this example. The handling of all requests and responses as well as the delivery of content between the client device and the application server can be handled by the Web server . It should be understood that the Web and application servers are not required and are merely example components as structured code discussed herein can be executed on any appropriate device or host machine as discussed elsewhere herein.

The data store can include several separate data tables databases or other data storage mechanisms and media for storing data relating to a particular aspect. For example the data store illustrated includes mechanisms for storing production data and user information which can be used to serve content for the production side. The data store also is shown to include a mechanism for storing log or session data . It should be understood that there can be many other aspects that may need to be stored in the data store such as page image information and access rights information which can be stored in any of the above listed mechanisms as appropriate or in additional mechanisms in the data store . The data store is operable through logic associated therewith to receive instructions from the application server and obtain update or otherwise process data in response thereto. In one example a user might submit a search request for a certain type of element. In this case the data store might access the user information to verify the identity of the user and can access the catalog detail information to obtain information about elements of that type. The information can then be returned to the user such as in a results listing on a Web page that the user is able to view via a browser on the user device . Information for a particular element of interest can be viewed in a dedicated page or window of the browser.

Each server typically will include an operating system that provides executable program instructions for the general administration and operation of that server and typically will include computer readable medium storing instructions that when executed by a processor of the server allow the server to perform its intended functions. Suitable implementations for the operating system and general functionality of the servers are known or commercially available and are readily implemented by persons having ordinary skill in the art particularly in light of the disclosure herein.

The environment in one embodiment is a distributed computing environment utilizing several computer systems and components that are interconnected via communication links using one or more computer networks or direct connections. However it will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art that such a system could operate equally well in a system having fewer or a greater number of components than are illustrated in . Thus the depiction of the system in should be taken as being illustrative in nature and not limiting to the scope of the disclosure.

As discussed above the various embodiments can be implemented in a wide variety of operating environments which in some cases can include one or more user computers computing devices or processing devices which can be used to operate any of a number of applications. User or client devices can include any of a number of general purpose personal computers such as desktop or laptop computers running a standard operating system as well as cellular wireless and handheld devices running mobile software and capable of supporting a number of networking and messaging protocols. Such a system also can include a number of workstations running any of a variety of commercially available operating systems and other known applications for purposes such as development and database management. These devices also can include other electronic devices such as dummy terminals thin clients gaming systems and other devices capable of communicating via a network.

Various aspects also can be implemented as part of at least one service or Web service such as may be part of a service oriented architecture. Services such as Web services can communicate using any appropriate type of messaging such as by using messages in extensible markup language XML format and exchanged using an appropriate protocol such as SOAP derived from the Simple Object Access Protocol . Processes provided or executed by such services can be written in any appropriate language such as the Web Services Description Language WSDL . Using a language such as WSDL allows for functionality such as the automated generation of client side code in various SOAP frameworks.

Most embodiments utilize at least one network that would be familiar to those skilled in the art for supporting communications using any of a variety of commercially available protocols such as TCP IP OSI FTP UPnP NFS CIFS and AppleTalk. The network can be for example a local area network a wide area network a virtual private network the Internet an intranet an extranet a public switched telephone network an infrared network a wireless network and any combination thereof.

In embodiments utilizing a Web server the Web server can run any of a variety of server or mid tier applications including HTTP servers FTP servers CGI servers data servers Java servers and business application servers. The server s also may be capable of executing programs or scripts in response requests from user devices such as by executing one or more Web applications that may be implemented as one or more scripts or programs written in any programming language such as Java C C or C or any scripting language such as Perl Python or TCL as well as combinations thereof. The server s may also include database servers including without limitation those commercially available from Oracle Microsoft Sybase and IBM .

The environment can include a variety of data stores and other memory and storage media as discussed above. These can reside in a variety of locations such as on a storage medium local to and or resident in one or more of the computers or remote from any or all of the computers across the network. In a particular set of embodiments the information may reside in a storage area network SAN familiar to those skilled in the art. Similarly any necessary files for performing the functions attributed to the computers servers or other network devices may be stored locally and or remotely as appropriate. Where a system includes computerized devices each such device can include hardware elements that may be electrically coupled via a bus the elements including for example at least one central processing unit CPU at least one input device e.g. a mouse keyboard controller touch screen or keypad and at least one output device e.g. a display device printer or speaker . Such a system may also include one or more storage devices such as disk drives optical storage devices and solid state storage devices such as random access memory RAM or read only memory ROM as well as removable media devices memory cards flash cards etc.

Such devices also can include a computer readable storage media reader a communications device e.g. a modem a network card wireless or wired an infrared communication device etc. and working memory as described above. The computer readable storage media reader can be connected with or configured to receive a computer readable storage medium representing remote local fixed and or removable storage devices as well as storage media for temporarily and or more permanently containing storing transmitting and retrieving computer readable information. The system and various devices also typically will include a number of software applications modules services or other elements located within at least one working memory device including an operating system and application programs such as a client application or Web browser. It should be appreciated that alternate embodiments may have numerous variations from that described above. For example customized hardware might also be used and or particular elements might be implemented in hardware software including portable software such as applets or both. Further connection to other computing devices such as network input output devices may be employed.

Storage media and computer readable media for containing code or portions of code can include any appropriate media known or used in the art including storage media and communication media such as but not limited to volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage and or transmission of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data including RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disk DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the a system device. Based on the disclosure and teachings provided herein a person of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate other ways and or methods to implement the various embodiments.

The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereunto without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention as set forth in the claims.

