---

title: Fully-printed carbon nanotube thin film transistor circuits for organic light emitting diode
abstract: The subject technology relates to a method including steps for disposing a first electrically conductive material on a substrate to form a first layer of electrodes on the substrate, wherein the first layer includes a source electrode and a drain electrode, and printing a film including carbon nanotubes between the source electrode and the drain electrode, thereby defining at least a first interface between the carbon nanotube film and the source electrode and a second interface between the carbon nanotube film and drain electrode. In certain aspects, the method can further include steps for disposing a second electrically conductive material over the first interface between the carbon nanotube film and the source electrode and the second interface between the carbon nanotube film and the drain electrode. In certain aspects, a transistor device is also provided.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09564481&OS=09564481&RS=09564481
owner: The University of Southern California
number: 09564481
owner_city: Los Angeles
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131031
---
This work was supported by the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency under SBIR contract No. HR 0011 10 0 0003 and the Defense Threat Reduction Agency under contract No. HDTRA1 10 1 0015. The government has certain rights in the invention.

This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 721 289 filed Nov. 1 2012 and entitled Fully Printed Carbon Nanotube Thin Film Transistor Circuits for Organic Light Emitting Diode which is Incorporated herein by reference.

The subject application relates to a method for printing carbon nanotube thin film transistor circuits and in particular for printing transistor circuits for use in driving organic light emitting diodes OLEOs .

Compared to liquid crystal displays LCDs organic light emitting diodes OLEOs are low cost light weight and provide flexible plastic substrate compatibility. Additionally OLEOs can provide wider viewing angles enhanced brightness greater power efficiency and shorter response times.

In some aspects the subject technology relates to a method including steps for disposing a first electrically conductive material on a substrate to form a first layer of electrodes on the substrate wherein the first layer of electrodes comprises a source electrode and a drain electrode and printing a film comprising carbon nanotubes on the substrate between the source electrode and the drain electrode thereby defining at least a first interface between the carbon nanotube film and the source electrode and a second interface between the carbon nanotube film and the drain electrode. In certain implementations the method can further include steps for disposing a second electrically conductive material over the first interface between the carbon nanotube film and the source electrode and the second interface between the carbon nanotube film and the drain electrode and disposing a dielectric material over exposed portions of the carbon nanotube film.

In yet another aspect the subject technology relates to a transistor including a substrate a first layer of electrodes formed on the substrate and comprising a source electrode and a drain electrode and a single walled carbon nanotube film printed between the source electrode and the drain electrode and forming an interface between the carbon nanotube film and the source electrode and the carbon nanotube film and the drain electrode. In certain implementations the transistor can further include a second layer of electrodes formed over the interface between the carbon nanotube film and the source electrode and the carbon nanotube film and the drain electrode and a dielectric layer formed over the carbon nanotube film.

The detailed description set forth below is intended as a description of various configurations of the subject technology and is not intended to represent the only configurations in which the subject technology can be practiced. The appended drawings are incorporated herein and constitute a part of the detailed description. The detailed description includes specific details for the purpose of providing a more thorough understanding of the subject technology. However it will be clear and apparent that the subject technology is not limited to the specific details set forth herein and may be practiced without these specific details. In some instances structures and components are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid obscuring the concepts of the subject technology.

In certain aspects circuits contain only one switch thin film transistor TFT and one storage capacitor 1T1C as illustrated in the example of . A more complicated control circuit includes one switch transistor and one driving transistor besides a storage capacitor e.g. 2T1C in . This structure allows a longer data storage time as compared to that of the 1T1C circuit. Other types of OLED driving circuits can require more transistors to achieve longer data storage time more uniform luminance within one matrix of pixels and less impact from pixel differential aging problem and current state whether pixel is lit on or turned off readout port. However such driving circuits are more complicated to realize.

One advantage of the combination of printed electronics and semiconducting single walled carbon nanotubes SWCNTs is described herein for display electronics. In certain aspects conductive silver ink and a 98 semiconductive SWCNT solution are used to print thin film transistors TFTs with high mobility high on off ratios and a high current carrying capacity. Combined with printed solid electrolyte PEI with LiCIO as the gating material these top gated devices are suitable current switches for OLEOs. An OLED driving circuit including two top gated fully printed transistors has been fabricated and the successful control over OLEDs has been demonstrated. present an OLED structure used herein a N N Di 1 naphthyl N N diphenyl 1 1 biphenyl 4 4 diamine NPD Tris 8 hydroxyquinoline aluminum Alq green light OLED with Indium tin oxide ITO and aluminum Al Lithium Fluoride LiF as anode and cathode material respectively. In addition a CNT TFT inverter has been fabricated. Frequency operation of single top gated fully printed transistors indicates the transistors described herein to be a viable technology for backplane display applications.

An OLED control circuit with a 2T1C structure is described herein as an example having a good compromise between more complex device structures and the shortfalls of the less complex 1T1C control circuit. For simplicity and ease of demonstration the 2T1C structure has been modified by removing the storage capacitor and fabricated 2T control circuit.

For OLEO based displays driving current up to 1 5 A pixel is typically required for high resolution display. Commercial LED OLEO based displays adopt low temperature polysilicon LTPS TFT or amorphous silicon Si TFTs for compatibility with mainstream silicon fabrication processes. However they require high temperature processing and suffer from low mobility e.g. 

As described herein 98 separated semiconducting SWCNTs and printed electronics are used in the fabrication of fully printed back gated SWCNT TFTs. In some implementations the mobilities of back gated SWCNT TFTs fall in the range of 10 30 cm V with the highest reaching 34.2 cm V. On off ratio of the back gated devices varies between 10 10and the highest on off ratio is 1.28 10.Based on the success of fully printed back gated devices fabricated printed top gated SWCNT TFTs with printed PEI LICIOas polymer electrolyte gating material were prepared. By varying PEI LiCIOcoverage the device behavior was tunable to either ambipolar or p type. 1 G 2 and G 3 show photographic images of arrays of top gated CNT TFTs a top gated CNT TFT and a zoomed in image of the channel region respectively. From the photo image in 1 3 only part of the channel is covered with PEI LiCIOand part of the channel is exposed to air. If the percentage of channel coverage is relatively small the top gate device would remain p type. If the coverage of PEI LiCIOis very high then the device would display ambipolar behavior. A fully printed 2T single pixel OLEO control circuit has also been demonstrated see e.g. 4 and inset G 5 .

Uniformity and high density are two factors in the printed back gated TFTs. It also influences the success of turning a back gated TFT into a top gated TFT by adding a strip of ion gel dielectric. 1 3 shows details of the as printed back gated CNT TFT especially the channel region.

In certain aspects electric performance characterization can be carried out for the as fabricated back gated devices. The W of the devices we studied approximately ranged from 100 m to 500 m while L ranged from 10 m to 200 m. More accurate values of the W and L used in mobility derivation can be measured via FESEM. Most devices exhibit an Iof 1 10 A at drain voltage of 1.0 V and gate voltage of 20 V I Iratio of 10 10 mobility of 10 30 cm Vand Vof 5.0 V. For example illustrate example current voltage characteristics I V of one representative device with W 510.5 m and L 88.8 m.

One curve of transconductance versus gate voltage V is derived from and plotted together with the drain current Iso versus gate voltage plot when drain voltage V equals 1.0 V as is shown in . The I Vfamily curves display clear linear region indicating ohmic contacts formed between silver electrodes and CNT networks. Distinctive saturation behavior is observed when Vbecomes more negative as is shown in . I Vfamily curves measured in linear region shows Iof 9.0 A at Vo 0.8 V and V 20 V corresponding to a current density of 0.037 A m. There is a clear cut off region and I Iis 1.28 10.

This study shows that back gated devices can have relatively uniform device performance and tunable on current by designing proper W and L without compromising mobility and I I. Overall these as printed CNT TFT devices show similar performance to their photolithography made CNT TFT counterparts.

Based on the measured high I high I Iratio as well as high mobility of the printed CNT TFTs their application in display electronics is further explored. In one example an OLEO was connected to a typical SWCNT TFT back gated device. The schematic diagram is plotted in the inset of . From the OLED current I versus Vfamily curves e.g. see a close inspection of the curve measured at V 10V when V 10 V reveals that the current flowing through the OLEO is 21.4 A when V 10 V the current flowing through the OLED is 378.0 pA. This corresponds to a modulation of Iof 56614. From the I Vss family curves good diode behavior is observed with a clear cutoff region and triode region under different V showing good control from the CNT TFT over the OLEO. The cutoff voltage of Vss is around 3.5 V in accordance with the threshold voltage of the OLED.

From the figures the SWCNT TFT was able to provide enough driving current 21.41 A when V 10 V and Vss 10 V for OLED which requires as low as 1 A to have observable light emission. In certain aspects the OLED can be on up to the point when Vo is as positive as 2 V and is totally turned off when VG becomes more positive 6 V corresponding to the I Vcurve measured at V 10 V where the curve enters cutoff region around 5.5 V.

The next step toward the 2T1C display control circuit is to fabricate top gate SWCNT TFTs based on printed back gated TFTs. Here PEI Mw 10 k Sigma Aldrich was used as an ion gel dielectric for CNT TFTs due to its well known property that when applying a voltage to the surface of a thin film of this gel the surface would become conductive and could work as a self aligned gate electrode while underneath this metallic layer the gel would still remain insulating and work as a gate dielectric. Due to the large molecular weight pure PEI has a high viscosity and therere is unable to print out. Here PEI is dissolved in methanol in 1 5 volume ratio and stirred overnight to reduce the viscosity before printing. Besides to improve the gate conductance a small amount of LiCIO LiCIOto PEI weight ratio 1 2.5 is added to fine tune the device performance.

The printed top gated CNT TFTs were characterized by electric property measurements in ambient air. Interestingly both ambipolar and p type behaviors were observed for most devices. show the I Vand I Vfamily curves of a typical ambipolar device while show that of a representative p type device. The coverage of printed CNT TFT is seen to influence the change of type of carrier transport for devices with similar mobility before top gate electrolyte printing which indicates similar CNT density and CNT Ag source drain pad contact condition. If the percentage of channel coverage is relatively small the top gate device would remain p type. If the coverage of PEI LiCIOis very high then the device would display ambipolar behavior. It has been reported that the carrier type in SWNTs can be modified by introducing electron donors or acceptors. For example the electric properties shown in correspond to a PEI LiCIOcoverage of 85 while the electric properties shown in correspond to a PEI LiCIOcoverage of 70 . The oxygen molecules adsorbed on CNT TFTs from air act as electron acceptors and therefore CNT TFTs are intrinsically p type in ambient air.

Earlier studies of polymer electrolyte gated CNT TFTs reveals that the oxygen atoms in PEI LiCIOwould be adsorbed onto the SWNT sidewall and act as electron donors to compensate for the p type doping effect from the oxygen molecules. It was also observed that if 2 3 dichloro 5 6 dicyanobenzoquinone DDQ a strong electron acceptor was introduced into PEI the polymer electrolyte gated CNT TFT would become ambipolar at low DDQ concentration and return to p type at a high DDQ concentration. A similar competition between oxygen atoms in PEI LiCIOand oxygen molecules adsorbed onto CNT may be attributed to what is observed here. If the PEI LiCIOcoverage is 100 then electron donors would dominate and the devices would assume exclusively n type behavior. If the PEI LiCIOcoverage is very high there are more electron donors than electron acceptors and thereby the CNT TFTs work as ambipolar top gated devices. If the PEI LICIOcoverage is relatively low there are more electron acceptors and the CNT TFTs remain p type. However the coverage of PEI LiCIOmay beyond certain point provide enough gating effect or the device would become very resistive after PEI printing.

From the subthreshold swings of ambipolar top gated device are calculated to be 258 mV decade for p type branch and 136 mV decade for n type branch while that of the p type top gated device is calculated to be 133 mV decade as is obtained from . The above calculated subthreshold swings are of the same magnitude as can be expected for devices with a similar ratio of diffusion capacitance and gate capacitance. Mobility calculations for polymer gated devices requires more analysis of total gate capacitance. The capacitance provided by PEI LiCIOpolymer is 

For nanotubes gated by PEI LiCIO the nanotube capacitance and the polymer gate capacitance would be in series and thereby the nanotube capacitance would dominate which is almost 10times smaller than that of PEI LiCIO. Based on this the calculated mobility for holes of the ambipolar top gated transistor is about 0.42 CM Vs and the calculated mobility for electrons is about 0.56 cm Vs while the calculated mobility for holes of the p type top gated transistor is about 2.80 cm Vs. Compared to the back gated devices the polymer gated transistors have a much lower mobility. This is not surprising as there would be more scattering at nanotube polymer gate interface which impedes carrier transportation. Noticeably the mobility of the ambipolar device is much lower than that of the p type top gated device. From the previous energy band analysis it is indicated that ambipolar top gated transistors would have a lower on current compared to either n type or p type top gated transistors with same W and L as their Schottky barrier for both holes and electrons are relatively thicker than that of their unipolar counterparts. Thereby ambipolar devices would have a lower

Top gated CNT TFTs were printed on Kapton to demonstrate fully printed flexible devices. Electric property measurements of devices on Kapton and Si SiOshow no significant differences compared to Si substrates indicating no selectivity over substrates of these fully printed top gated CNT TFTs.

The hysteresis of all the devices mentioned above was compared back gated device on silicon wafer top gated ambipolar device on Kapton or silicon wafer and top gated p type device on silicon wafer. Hysteresis of top gated devices can be small compared to that of the back gated devices due for example to stronger gating effects from polymer electrolytes. Although there is a small amount of hysteresis these devices were good enough for a simple logic circuit. A simple inverter function was demonstrated by using two ambipolar transistors.

The study of how the PEI LiCIOoperates as a dielectric and gate electrode for CNT TFTs paves the way for the 2T1C OLEO control circuit. For demonstration purpose the storage capacitance was omitted and the transistor only 2T OLEO control circuit was tested. As p type top gated CNT TFT has a higher mobility and unipolar transportation ensures a symmetric cut off and turn on region a p type top gated CNT TFT for this circuit was utilized.

Electric property characterizations were done first without the OLEO as is indicated in the circuit diagram shown on the inset of . With Vbiased at 0.1 V 0.2 V 0.3 V 0.4 vand 0.5 V and Vswept from 1 V to 1 V when V 0 V the switch transistor is cut off and there is no current through the driving transistor. When V0.5 V the switch transistor turns on and It passes Vto the driving transistor. The details of how Vcontrols the current provided by driving transistor I are plotted in under different Vranging from 0.5 V to 0.1 V. Specifically the I Vcurve measured under V 0.3 V is magnified and re plotted in .

Then an external OLEO is directly connected to this display circuit with cathode connected to the drain of driving transistor and anode connected to a negative voltage of 3.4V which is used to provide the voltage drop on OLEO in on state. I Vwas measured at V 0.1 V . 0.2 V 0.3 V 0.4 V and 0.5 V. Noticeably the on off ratio decreased to about 10 due to the fact that in this circuit configuration the OLEO is never turned off due to the negative voltage applied to V the absolute value of which approximately equals the threshold voltage of OLEO. Yet the light intensity difference is still observed for the controlled OLEO.

Display applications typically operate at 60 Hz. Accordingly frequency investigation of single top gated and back gated transistors was conducted. The external OLEO was replaced with a resistance and found out the 3 dB frequency to be 5.66 kHz for back gated CNT TFT and 93.3 Hz for top gated CNT TFT.

In summary fully printed CNT TFT circuits based on 98 semiconducting SWCNT and printed electronic technologies have been fabricated. These CNT TFTs have good mobility good on off ratio and good current capacity. They are suitable components for OLEO based display backplane electronics and the control over external OLEO using one single backgate CNT TFT is achieved. Based on that with one more printing step of PEI LiCIO4 these back gated CNT TFTs are converted to top gated CNT TFTs. Top gated CNT TFTs are also made on Kapton to demonstrate the potential of using this technology for flexible electronics. Good CNT inverter functionality and transistor frequency characteristics were observed. Finally 2T OLEO control circuit composed of two fully printed top gated CNT TFTs is made and its ability to control over external OLEO is demonstrated.

It Is understood that any specific order or hierarchy of steps In the processes disclosed is an illustration of exemplary approaches. Based upon design preferences it Is understood that the specific order or hierarchy of steps In the processes may be rearranged or that all illustrated steps be performed. Some of the steps may be performed simultaneously. For example In certain circumstances multitasking and parallel processing may be advantageous. Moreover the separation of various system components in the embodiments described above should not be understood as requiring such separation In all embodiments and it should be understood that the described program components and systems can generally pe integrated together In a single software product or packaged Into multiple software products.

The previous description Is provided to enable any person skilled in the art to practice the various aspects described herein. Various modifications to these aspects will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and the generic principles defined herein may be applied to other aspects. Thus the claims are not intended to be limited to the aspects shown herein but are to be accorded the full scope consistent with the language claims wherein reference to an element in the singular is not intended to mean one and only one unless specifically so stated but rather one or more. Unless specifically stated otherwise the term some refers to one or more. Pronouns in the masculine e.g. his include the feminine and neuter gender e.g. her and its and vice versa. Headings and subheadings if any are used for convenience only and do not limit the subject disclosure.

A phrase such as an aspect does not imply that such aspect is essential to the subject technology or that such aspect applies to all configurations of the subject technology. A disclosure relating to an aspect may apply to all configurations or one or more configurations. A phrase such as an aspect may refer to one or more aspects and vice versa. A phrase such as a configuration does not imply that such configuration is essential to the subject technology or that such configuration applies to all configurations of the subject technology. A disclosure relating to a configuration may apply to all configurations or one or more configurations. A phrase such as a configuration may refer to one or more configurations and vice versa.

The word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs.

All structural and functional equivalents to the elements of the various aspects described throughout this disclosure that are known or later come to be known to those of ordinary skill in the art are expressly incorporated herein by reference and are intended to be encompassed by the claims. Moreover nothing disclosed herein is intended to be dedicated to the public regardless of whether such disclosure is explicitly recited in the claims.

