---

title: Putrescine and method to reduce risk of aneuploid pregnancy
abstract: A medicament for reducing the risk of having an aneuploid pregnancy in a woman with reduced ovarian ornithine decarboxylase (ODC) activity level, the medicament includes putrescine. A use of putrescine for reducing the risk of having an aneuploid pregnancy in a woman with reduced ovarian ODC activity levels. A method for reducing the risk of having an aneuploid pregnancy in a woman with reduced ovarian ODC activity levels by administering putrescine.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09248108&OS=09248108&RS=09248108
owner: OTTAWA HOSPITAL RESEARCH INSTITUTE
number: 09248108
owner_city: Ottawa
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20130821
---
This application is a U.S. National Entry of PCT patent application Ser. No. PCT CA2013 050645 filed Aug.21 2013 claims the benefit of priority of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 692 306 filed Aug. 23 2012 which are incorporated herein by reference.

The present disclosure relates to putrescine and its use in reducing the risk of aneuploid pregnancy.

It is estimated that 10 30 of fertilized human eggs are aneuploid. Most of these aneuploid fertilizations result in either embryo demise prior to clinical recognition of pregnancy or miscarriages. Aneuploidy is also the single most important contributing factor in severe birth defects e.g. Down syndrome . The majority 80 of embryo aneuploidies are of maternal origin eggs having incorrect number of chromosomes with majority being due to premature separation of sister chromatids PSSC immediately prior to ovulation. Advanced maternal age is the most important contributing factor of aneuploidy with women over 32 having a rapidly increasing risk of carrying a trisomy pregnancy where the risk reaches over 30 by age 40 Hassold and Hunt 2001 .

In order to avoid aneuploid pregnancies women undergoing in vitro fertilization IVF may undertake pre implantation genetic diagnosis PIGD which involves polar body or embryo biopsy. This procedure is invasive and therefore inherently harmful to the implanting embryos. Overall the benefit is not universally recognized. Several major public health authorities have issued strong warnings against its use and it is prohibited in some countries for example Germany .

According to one aspect there is provided a medicament for reducing the risk of having an aneuploid pregnancy in a human female with reduced ovarian ornithine decarboxylase ODC activity level. The medicament includes putrescine and a pharmacologically acceptable excipient diluent or carrier.

The human female with reduced ovarian ODC activity level may be a human female older than 32 years of age.

The medicament may be formulated for administration of putrescine at least on the day of ovulation. In one example the medicament may be formulated for administration of putrescine up to and including the day of ovulation such as for one week up to and including the day of ovulation. In another example the human female maybe an IVF patient and the medicament may be formulated for administration of putrescine to the IVF patient for one week up to the morning of egg retrieval. In yet another example the medicament may be formulated for administration of putrescine for 5 8 days up to and including the day of conception.

The medicament may be formulated for oral or subcutaneous administration for example subcutaneous or intravenous injection.

According to another aspect there is provided a use of putrescine for reducing the risk of having an aneuploid pregnancy in a human female with reduced ovarian ODC activity level. The human female with reduced ovarian ODC activity level may be a human female older than 32 years of age.

The putrescine may be formulated for administration at least on the day of ovulation. In one example the putrescine may be formulated for administration up to and including the day of ovulation such as for one week up to and including the day of ovulation. In another example the human female maybe an IVF patient and the putrescine may be formulated for administration to the IVF patient for one week up to the morning of egg retrieval. In yet another example the putrescine may be formulated for administration for 5 8 days up to and including the day of conception.

Reducing the risk of having an aneuploid pregnancy may include reducing the ovulation of aneuploid eggs and or reducing the generation of aneuploid embryos.

Reducing the risk of having an aneuploid pregnancy may include increasing the probability that the human female will have a viable pregnancy reducing the probability that the human female will have a child with a birth defect or both when compared to the probability when the human female is not administered the putrescine.

According to another aspect there is provided a method of reducing the risk of having an aneuploid pregnancy in a human female with reduced ovarian ODC activity level. The method includes administering putrescine to a peri ovulatory human female.

The human female with reduced ovarian ODC activity level may be a human female older than 32 years of age.

The putrescine may be administered at least on the day of ovulation. In one example the putrescine may be administered up to and including the day of ovulation such as for one week up to and including the day of ovulation. In another example the human female maybe an IVF patient and the putrescine may be administered to the IVF patient for one week up to the morning of egg retrieval. In yet another example the putrescine may be administered for 5 8 days up to and including the day of conception.

Reducing the risk of having an aneuploid pregnancy may include reducing the ovulation of aneuploid eggs and or reducing the generation of aneuploid embryos.

Reducing the risk of having an aneuploid pregnancy may include increasing the probability that the human female will have a viable pregnancy reducing the probability that the human female will have a child with a birth defect or both when compared to the probability when the human female is not administered the putrescine.

Other aspects and features of the present disclosure will become apparent to those ordinarily skilled in the art upon review of the following description of specific embodiments in conjunction with the accompanying figures.

It has been known for more than four decades that during mammalian estrous cycles luteinizing hormone stimulates a transitory rise in the ovaries of ODC activity and its enzymatic product putrescine concurrent with oocyte maturation in vivo. Since ODC inhibition was previously shown to result in normal gestation inhibition of this transitory ODC putrescine rise was previously believed to not affect oocyte maturation or ovulation.

Using several mouse models and combining in vitro and in vivo approaches the authors of the present disclosure have now found that deficiency of ODC during oocyte maturation is correlated with increased levels of egg aneuploidies. The authors additionally believe that the transitory ovarian ODC rise in late proestrus is important for ensuring proper chromosome segregation during oocyte maturation. Therefore the authors believe that inhibition of the transitory ovarian ODC activity rise increases aneuploidies in ovulated eggs and in 2 cell embryos.

ODC catalyzes the conversion of ornithine to putrescine releasing CO. The authors of the present disclosure now believe that the deficiency in putrescine production is at least one factor in the increase in aneuploid pregnancy.

In view of the findings discussed herein the present disclosure generally provides a a medicament for reducing the risk of having an aneuploid pregnancy in a woman with reduced ovarian ODC activity level the medicament includes putrescine b a use of putrescine for reducing the risk of having an aneuploid pregnancy in a woman with reduced ovarian ODC activity levels and c a method for reducing the risk of having an aneuploid pregnancy in a woman with reduced ovarian ODC activity levels by administering putrescine. In the current disclosure human female and woman are used interchangeably.

One 1 g of putrescine is 11.4 mmol or 228 nmol per g tissue for a 50 kg women if the putrescine is administered at one time and evenly distributed throughout her body. The transitory ovarian putrescine concentrations have been determined to peak at 160 nmol per g ovarian tissues in one study Bastida et al. 2005 and 250 nmol per g ovarian tissue in another Fozard et al. 1980b . In the oral putrescine supplementation experiments described below no difference was observed in the amount of water or putrescine water consumed by the respective animals. Assuming that the daily intake of water is equivalent to 10 of their body weight the daily putrescine intake in the experiments is approximately 1 g per kg body weight or 6.2 mol putrescine molecular weight of putrescine hydrochloride is 161 per g body weight. However because mice drink water very frequently and because exogenous putrescine clears out very rapidly the steady state putrescine levels in these mice are much lower at any given time.

The putrescine may be formulated for administration to a human female with reduced ovarian ODC activity levels at about 0.02 g kg to about 1 g kg daily. The putrescine may be formulated for administration to a human female with reduced ovarian ODC activity levels at more than about 1 g kg daily. The dose of putrescine may be administered for example in a single dose once a day in multiple smaller doses a number of times per day or via a constant administration over the course of a certain time period. Constant administration may be achieved for example by administration of a sustained release formulation that includes the putrescine or by continuous or repeated subcutaneous administration over a certain time period. Subcutaneous administration may include for example intravenous injection or subcutaneous injection. One particular example of subcutaneous injection includes continuous subcutaneous infusion of putrescine similar to the manner in which insulin is administered by an insulin pump.

Women with reduced ovarian ODC activity levels may be women older than 32 years of age. After this age it has been shown that the incidence of trisomy increases exponentially Hassold T. Hunt P. To err meiotically is human the genesis of human aneuploidy. 2001 2 280 291 . The mouse studies disclosed herein e.g. as well as unpublished mouse studies indicate a strong correlation between aging and ovarian ODC levels with greater than 50 reduction in ODC levels by 6 months of age. Considering that lab mice live at least 2 years the authors of the present disclosure believe that that human women also exhibit significant reduction of ovarian ODC levels at a relatively young age for example at 32 years of age.

The putrescine may be formulated for administration at least on the day of ovulation. In some examples the putrescine may be formulated for administration for one week up to and including the day of ovulation. In other examples the putrescine may be formulated for administration for one week up to the morning of egg retrieval for IVF patients. In yet another example the putrescine may be formulated for administration 5 8 days up to and including the day of conception.

The putrescine may be administered in any manner that results in a plasma concentration of putrescine that reduces the risk of aneuploid pregnancy. For example the administration may be enteral topical or parenteral. Enteral administration may be for example by ingestion of a pharmaceutical medicament or dietary supplement that contains the putrescine. Parenteral administration may be for example intravenous or subcutaneous injection of a pharmaceutical composition that contains the putrescine. The putrescine may be formulated for delivery to the ovaries oocytes or both.

As discussed above aneuploid fertilizations often result in either embryo demise prior to clinical recognition of pregnancy or miscarriages. Aneuploidy is also a contributing factor in severe birth defects. Reducing the risk of having an aneuploid pregnancy may increase the possibility of having a viable pregnancy reduce the possibility of having a child with a birth defect or both.

The risk of having an aneuploid pregnancy in women with reduced ovarian ODC activity levels may be reduced by reducing the ovulation of aneuploid eggs thereby reducing the generation of aneuploid embryos. Women with reduced ovarian ODC activity levels may be women older than 32 years of age. In such women reducing the risk of having an aneuploid pregnancy may improve the fertility of women for example by increasing the possibility that a woman will become pregnant and carry the pregnancy to term.

ODC is an essential enzyme in all eukaryotes from yeasts Whitney Morris 1978 to mammals Pendeville et al. 2001 due to its role in cell replication. Consistent with this role during mouse embryogenesis ODC expression increases sharply after implantation E6 E8 at a time of rapid cell proliferation Fozard et al. 1980a . Chemical inhibition Fozard et al. 1980a or gene knockout Pendeville et al. 2001 invariably causes embryonic death at this period.

On the other hand the function of ODC during mammalian ovulation remains enigmatic Lefevre et al. 2011 . During estrous cycles in rats Kobayashi et al. 1971 and mice Bastida et al. 2005 ovarian ODC activity and the corresponding ovarian putrescine concentration Fozard et al. 1980b Bastida et al. 2005 exhibit a luteinizing hormone LH mediated transitory rise during the evening of proestrus concurrent with oocyte maturation in vivo. This level of ODC activity is at least 10 times that required for the preceding follicular phase which is characterized by significant cell proliferation within the antral follicles Bastida et al. 2005 Fozard et al. 1980b Kobayashi et al. 1971 suggesting a function s unrelated to cell proliferation.

Within the ovaries LH stimulates the transitory rise of ODC protein mainly in preovulatory follicles Icekson et al. 1974 both in the somatic theca and granulosa cells and in the oocytes Bastida et al. 2005 . However complete inhibition of this transitory ODC putrescine rise does not affect ovulation Fozard et al. 1980b Bastida et al. 2005 . It has been suggested that the transitory rise of ovarian ODC activity is required for luteinization of the granulosa cells to produce progesterone Bastida et al. 2005 although gestation appears normal when the transitory ODC putrescine rise is inhibited Fozard et al. 1980b . Similarly oocyte maturation in a species lacking luteinzation or implantation is also accompanied by similarly significant and transitory rise in ODC activity Younglai et al. 1980 Sunkara et al. 1981 Zhou et al. 2009 . ODC activity rise during frog oocyte maturation has been shown to be due to de novo protein translation and that its complete inhibition although not affecting polar body emission leads to increase of oxidative stress and apoptosis Zhou et al. 2009 .

Since ODC inhibition was previously shown to result in normal gestation it was previously believed that ODC enzyme activity did not affect oocyte maturation or ovulation.

To determine if inhibition of oocyte ODC activity affects mouse oocyte in vitro maturation IVM DFMO an enzyme activated irreversible inhibitor for eukaryotic ODC Metcalf et al. 1978 Poulin et al. 1992 Pegg 2006 was employed. Immature mouse oocytes a.k.a. GV oocytes for the presence of intact germinal vesicle from young CF1 mice 7 8 weeks of age were cultured in medium control or medium containing 5 mM DFMO Garcia Faroldi et al. 2009 .

DFMO in oocyte IVM medium did not affect spindle assembly or first polar body emission 776 945 or 82 compared with 676 843 or 80.2 for control consistent with observation in frog oocytes Zhou et al. 2009 .

All metaphase II eggs were subjected to karyotype analyses and counted spreads that contained 18 or more chromosomes and in which all chromosomes were close together to eliminate over spread karyotypes. Only hyperploid eggs those containing 21 or more chromosomes were considered aneuploid to avoid artifacts due to loss of chromosomes during preparation of chromosome spreads Koehler et al. 2006 . In this set of experiments in which only DNA staining was employed hyperploid oocytes that contained extra whole chromosomes dyads were not distinguished from those that contained separated sister s because it is often difficult to differentiate a small chromosome dyad and a single sister in telocentric chromosomes such as in mouse. Nonetheless these results indicated a significant increase of aneuploidies in oocytes treated with DFMO during in vitro maturation Table 1 and Table 2 below .

Rescue experiments in which 5 mM putrescine was added together with DFMO to the IVM medium were carried out to confirm the specificity of DFMO in ODC inhibition. Analysis of a relatively small number of oocytes suggested that putrescine supplementation reduced egg aneuploidies caused by DFMO Table 1 and Table 2 .

The effect of DFMO on egg aneuploidy in vivo was also examined. It was first confirmed that DFMO in mouse drinking water Nilsson et al. 2005 1 see for details efficiently inhibited the ovarian ODC activity in young mice compare hCG DFMO to hCG in 8 week old mice . Oviduct derived metaphase II eggs from control mice and DFMO treated mice were subjected to karyotype analyses. In these and all subsequent egg karyotype analyses anti CREST antibodies were used to label centromeres Hodges Hunt 2002 in addition to DNA staining. This modification allowed unambiguous identification of single sister chromatid s in metaphase II eggs termed premature separation of sister chromatids PSSC the predominant form of mouse egg aneuploidies found in this study see Table 3 .

DFMO did not affect the number of MII eggs collected from the oviducts control 28.6 mouse n 38 vs. DFMO 29.3 mouse n 37 indicating normal folliculogenesis and ovulation. However DFMO caused a significant increase of aneuploidies in ovulated eggs from 1.3 to 7.7 . Furthermore a majority of the aneuploidies involved PSSC Table 6 and Table 7 .

To rule out any possibility that chromosome spreading procedures may artificially separate sister chromatids and complicate the DFMO results 2 cell embryo karyotyping was carried out which does not rely on the presence of single sister chromatids to assess aneuploidy. Again DFMO treatment significantly increased the occurrence of hyperploid 2 cell embryos from 0 to 10.4 Table 10 and Table 11 .

Two other mouse models were additionally used. First DFMO was tested as a potential treatment to increase egg aneuploidy in the hybrid F1 females that has a high baseline aneuploidy rate similar to human Koehler et al. 2006 . The interspecies F1 females from crossing female C57BL 6 and male SPRET Ei mice exhibit impaired non sister crossovers and therefore predispose oocytes to an increased risk of aneuploidy Koehler et al. 2006 .

The authors of the present disclosure have now shown that MII eggs derived from IVM of young F1 females exhibited a high aneuploidy rate 12.1 comparable to that 10.1 previously determined in ovulated eggs Koehler et al. 2006 . The presence of 5 mM DFMO in IVM medium indeed significantly increased egg aneuploidy rate to 22.5 Table 8 and Table 9 indicating that reducing ODC activity in mice of a different genetic background also increases egg aneuploidy. Second heterozygous odc mice Pendeville et al. 2001 were examined for exhibition of elevated egg aneuploidy. Analyzing ovarian ODC activity indicated 40 reduction in heterozygous odc mice compared to age matched wild type littermates . Analyzing oviduct derived eggs indicated an elevation in egg aneuploidy in heterozygous odc mice compared to age matched wild type litter mates although the difference has not reached statistical significance Table 4 and Table 5 .

The authors of the present disclosure have also found age dependent reduction of ovarian ODC activity reaching in 8 month old C57BL 6 mice . To determine if indeed older mice exhibit diminished ODC expression in the oocytes immunohistological analyses of ovarian sections was carried out according to Bastida et al. Bastida et al. 2005 . Using three different animals in each group the authors of the present disclosure demonstrated that antral follicles in 8 month old mice exhibited significantly reduced levels of hCG induced ODC expression in both the oocyte and somatic cells Tao and Liu 2013 .

It remains unknown how ODC putrescine deficiency increases the risk of aneuploidy pregnancy. No evidence of spindle abnormality was found either in ODC deficient young oocytes or in oocytes of very old heterozygous odc mice Table 12 Tao and Liu 2013 . However the prevalence of PSSC in ODC deficient young eggs Table 6 and Table 8 suggested to the authors of the present disclosure that optimal putrescine concentration may have an important role in maintaining sister chromatid cohesion during meiosis I. This role may be indirect e.g. via its suppression of oxidative stress Zhou et al. 2009 given the low phenotypic penetrance in both the number of aneuploid oocytes and the number of chromosomes in affected oocytes even when the transitory ODC rise was completely inhibited . PSSC is also the dominant form of aneuploidies in eggs of older mice Table 13 which exhibited significantly reduced level of ODC and putrescine. Therefore aging related partial loss of chromosome associated cohesin predisposes these oocytes to increased risk of losing centromeric cohesion in meiosis I Lister et al. 2010 Chiang et al. 2010 . This increased risk together with the diminished ODC activity leads to increased incidence of PSSC. The authors of the present disclosure believe that restoration of optimal putrescine concentrations in the ovaries and the oocytes of older mice may protect at least some of the vulnerable entromeric cohesion during meiosis I Table 13 with a detailed break down show in Table 14 .

The finding of PSSC as the dominant form of aneuploidies in ODC deficient mice young and old see Table 3 is in contrast to the recent studies that suggest whole chromosome nondisjunction as the main form of aneuploidies in aged mice Selesniemi et al. 2011 Merriman et al. 2012 . While Selesniemi et al. employed DAPI staining of chromosomes in karyotyping Selesniemi et al. 2011 Merriman et al. Merriman et al. 2012 employed a novel in situ karyotyping method based on fluorescence confocal imaging of monastral treated oocytes Duncan et al. 2009 . This method which stains both chromosomes and centromeres CREST in fixed oocytes has the distinct advantage of preserving all chromosomes Duncan et al. 2009 Merriman et al. 2012 . However its identification of PSSC based on odd number of CREST dots Merriman et al. 2012 likely underestimates the incidence of PSSC as karyotypes that contain two separated sister chromatids are common forms of aneuploidies Table 3 .

The authors of the present disclosure employed the method developed by Hodges and Hunt Hodges Hunt 2002 that involves the prior removal of zona pellucida so that the eggs are gently lysed in a hypotonic buffer instead of the methanol acidic acid fixative in the classical Takowski protocol Evans 1987 during chromosome spreading. As a result chromosomes remain closely and evenly positioned often in a circular array suggesting that all chromosomes touch down on the glass slide while still being associated with the spindle. This method also has the distinct advantage of preserving chromosome associated proteins including CREST antigens Hodges Hunt 2002 allowing simultaneous visualization of chromosomes and centromeres and hence unambiguous identification of PSSC. In all PSSC spreads very few mostly just one or two separated sisters were present together with perfectly preserved chromosome dyads Table 3 arguing against any possibility that the sisters are separated as a result of procedural artifact. Furthermore in those PSSC karyotypes with two or more separated sisters the sisters were randomly positioned in the chromosome array with no association with one another at all suggesting that they exist as single sisters in the metaphase II spindle before spreading. Interestingly in most if not all of the oocytes Table 3 involving two separated sisters the sisters appeared to belong to the same chromosome Tao and Liu 2013 . Therefore the affected sisters were segregated correctly during oocyte maturation anaphase I but became separated before the assembly of the metaphase II spindle in the mature egg. Such segregation errors appear to be the major form of aneuploidies in old oocytes as supported by live cell imaging studies Chiang et al. 2010 . Finally an independent method karyotyping 2 cell embryos which does not rely on the assessment of separated sisters was employed to confirm the key finding that ODC deficiency causes increased aneuploidies Table 10 . The absence of hyperploid 2 cell embryos 0 59 in the control group indicates the extremely low incidence of aneuploidies in sperm and in first embryo mitosis thus validating this as an alternative method of karyotyping the eggs.

To determine if the diminished ovarian ODC activity contributes to egg aneuploidies in older mice rescue experiments using putrescine supplementation were also carried out. Preliminary experiments indicated that injecting old C57BL 6 mice 8 months with eCG followed by hCG failed to produce consistent ovulation. Therefore IVM experiments were carried out which revealed that oocytes from these mice exhibited high aneuploidy rate 12.7 . For the rescue experiments 1 putrescine was added to all drinking water for 7 days refreshed daily followed by IVM in the presence of 5 mM putrescine. This combination reduced egg aneuploidies to 5.3 . Putrescine supplementation in mouse drinking water did not change the number of fully grown GV oocytes in the ovaries control 26.4 mouse n 12 vs. 25.3 mouse n 13 these numbers are similar to the 27.5 produced by 8 week old C57BL 6 mice Table 13 Tao and Liu 2013 . Analyses of very old 16 months odc mice with or without putrescine supplementation revealed no evidence of spindle abnormality or premature polar body emission Table 12 Tao and Liu 2013 .

In summary older mice 8 months of age exhibited about that of young mice in LH stimulated ovarian ODC activity and exhibited a corresponding increase of egg aneuploidies. A combination of putrescine supplementation in mouse drinking water leading up to oocyte retrieval and in oocyte maturation medium reduced egg aneuploidies number of aneuploid eggs total number of eggs of the old mice from 12.7 to 5.3 .

Live aneuploid births appear exceedingly infrequently in mice young or old with Goodlin R. C. Goodlin R. C. 1965 finding no aneuploids in analyzing a total of 750 live births to 1.5 year old F1 females from BALBc 129 crosses. This rate may not be different from the estimated overall rate of 0.3 for aneuploidies among all human live births Hassold T. and Hunt P 2001 .

Since old mice exhibit a significant egg aneuploidy rate Pan H. et al. 2008 and Merriman J. A. et al 2012 it follows that a majority of aneuploid embryos die during gestation as is the case in humans Baird D. T. et al. 2005 and Chard T. 1991 . Indeed old mice exhibit a significantly increased rate of embryo deaths resorption when 9 10 month old Theiler s original TO mice were examined at E15. Therefore embryo resorption may be used as an indirect indicator of egg aneuploidy.

As discussed herein old mice which are ODC deficient exhibited an increase in embryo resorption rate. This resorption rate increase may be reversed by feeding mice drinking water supplemented with 1 putrescine the direct product of ODC enzymatic activity. While mice about 9 months of age exhibited significantly elevated levels of embryo resorption rate putrescine supplementation 5 8 days up to the appearance of a vaginal plug indicative of mating reduced the embryo resorption rate to levels comparable to those in mice at about 8 weeks of age as evidenced by the results illustrated in Table 15 which is a summary of the mating experiments with 9 month old CF1 mice control vs. putrescine as well as 8 week old mice. Putrescine treatment reduced the number of dead embryos observed on E12 from 1.6 to 0.8 per pregnancy. This reduction was also obvious when the ratio of dead embryos over total implantation sites were compared 12.5 vs. 6 for the putrescine and control groups respectively . Similar analyses of 10 young mice yielded a ratio of 3.6 dead embryos total implantation sites on E12 . Furthermore peri ovulatory putrescine supplementation was found to be safe for gestation as judged by the perfectly normal embryos found on E12 Table 15 and normal full term births. This is in contrast to a previous study which reported toxicity if excess putrescine was present during gestation Pendeville H. et al. 2001 . In fact the authors of the present disclosure treated young CF1 mice with as much as 10 mM putrescine in drinking water for the entire gestation period and found no signs of toxicity to mother or fetuses even though Penderville H. et al stated that fetal toxicity was found at 1 mM putrescine in drinking water.

These results suggest that peri ovulatory putrescine supplementation is effective in reducing embryo resorption which is equivalent to miscarriages in humans. Furthermore these results also indicate that peri ovulatory putrescine supplementation is safe for gestation.

During estrous cycle in rats Kobayashi 1971 and mice Bastida et al. 2005 ovarian ODC activity exhibits a luteinizing hormone LH mediated transitory rise during the evening of proestrus concurrent with oocyte maturation in vivo. Within the ovaries LH stimulates the transitory rise of ODC mainly in antral follicles Icekson et al. 1974 both in the somatic theca and granulosa cells and in the oocytes Bastida et al. 2005 Tao and Liu 2013 . Curiously complete inhibition of this transient ODC putrescine rise does not affect oocyte maturation or ovulation Bastida et al. 2005 and Fozard 1980 . It has been suggested that the transitory rise of ovarian ODC activity is required for luteinization of the granulosa cells to produce progesterone Bastida et al. 2005 although gestation appears normal when the transient ODC putrescine rise is inhibited Fozard 1980 .

A Dionex ion chromatography system was used to analyze polyamines during ovulation. This system employs an online conductivity detector coupled with an anion suppressor such that only cations are detected. Ovaries were extracted in 5 trichloric acid TCA followed by extraction with diethyl ether. The TCA extracts were diluted in water before being applied to the ion chromatography system. Prior to hCG injection ovaries contained barely detectable levels of putrescine compared to high concentrations of spermidine and spermine. Following hCG injection ovaries exhibited a significant increase of putrescine while spermidine and spermine levels remained unchanged.

Time course experiments indicated that the ovaries exhibited hCG induced increase of putrescine peaking at 5 h after hCG injection with 667 nmol per g of ovarian tissues compared to 118 nmol per g prior to hCG injection . This time course corresponded precisely to that of the transient ovarian ODC activity increase Bastida et al. 2005 and Tao and Liu 2013 . Treating mice for 48 hours with 1 DFMO in drinking water leading up to the time of sacrifice completely eliminated the hCG mediated putrescine increase . These data are consistent with previous demonstration that such DFMO treatment effectively inhibited ovarian ODC activity Tao and Liu 2013 . Clearly mouse ovaries contain high steady state of spermidine and spermine but exhibit highly dynamic putrescine levels during ovulation.

Ovarian putrescine levels exhibit a clear age dependent drop measuring about 50 in 7 10 month old CF1 mice and 30 in 14 month old CF1 mice . In contrast there were no significant changes in the levels of ovarian spermidine or spermine .

In an attempt to restore ovarian putrescine level in older mice to that found in young mice mice were treated with oral putrescine supplementation 1 in drinking water for several days up to the time of sacrifice. Analyzing ovarian extracts from these putrescine treated mice indicated appreciably higher levels of ovarian putrescine either before or 5 h after hCG injection compared to control mice . Levels of spermidine and spermine remained unchanged. It is worth noting that the ovarian putrescine level in the putrescine group after hCG was still less than that found in young mice .

Exogenous putrescine was given to young mice. Plasma putrescine concentrations were determined. As shown in prior to putrescine injection the plasma putrescine was undetectable. Twenty 20 minutes after subcutaneous injection plasma putrescine levels reached 42 nmol mL. Thereafter plasma putrescine levels rapidly decreased measuring 16 nmol mL and 8 nmol mL respectively at 40 min and 60 min after putrescine injection.

Earlier studies by Angell and colleagues of surplus human IVF eggs have concluded that PSSC is the dominant form of aneuploidies and whole chromosome nondisjunction is rare Angell 1997 Angell 1991 Angell et al. 1994 . Others have reported both PSSC and whole chromosome nondisjunction in human eggs Mahmood et al. 2000 Dailey et al. 1996 . In contrast to these earlier studies which involved relatively small number of human eggs Kuliev et al. analyzed more than 20 000 human eggs via their polar bodies and concluded that among the overall 31.1 aneuploidies 93.7 are of PSSC phenotypes and only 6.3 are whole chromosome nondisjunction Kuliev et al. 2011 . This large study provides compelling support for the Angell hypothesis that PSSC is the dominant form of human egg aneuploidies Wolstenholme Angell 2000 it also reiterates the extraordinarily high incidence of human egg aneuploidies 31.1 with only 5 of the 23 chromosomes analyzed Kuliev et al. 2011 . It is estimated that only 30 of human conceptions result in live births. Another 10 are spontaneously aborted. The majority 60 are thought to be lost prior to clinical recognition of pregnancy Baird et al. 2005 . Egg aneuploidy with dramatically increased incidences in older women likely plays a dominant role in these missing human embryos in miscarriages and in birth defects Hassold Hunt 2001 .

In view of the above and in view of the results of the mice studies discussed herein the authors of the present disclosure believe that ovarian ODC deficiency may be an a factor in aneuploidies such as maternal aging related aneuploidies in other mammals such as humans. Accordingly the authors of the present disclosure believe that administration of putrescine to women with reduced ovarian ODC activity level may reduce the rate of aneuploid conceptions for example in a similar manner as putrescine supplementation reduced the aneuploid conception rate in mice.

Since putrescine is a naturally occurring metabolite and can easily and quickly enter the circulation system the authors of the present disclosure believe that the women may be administered putrescine at least on the day of ovulation. In some examples the women may be administered putrescine for one week up to and including the day of ovulation. In other examples the women may be administered putrescine for one week up to the morning of egg retrieval for IVF patients. In yet another example the women may be administered putrescine for 5 8 days up to and including the day of conception.

Some dosages and or formulations of putrescine may reduce the aneuploidy rate for women with reduced ovarian ODC activity levels to an aneuploidy rate comparable to women with normal ovarian ODC activity levels. The women with reduced ovarian ODC activity levels may be for example women over 32 years of age. The women with normal ovarian ODC activity levels may be for example women between the ages of 18 and 25.

CF1 mice and C57BL 6 mice were from Charles River St Constant Quebec Canada . SPRET Ei mice were from Jackson lab Bar Harbor Me. US . F1 hybrids were generated by crossing C57BL 6 females to SPRET Ei males. Heterozygous odc mice were produced in house and genotyping carried out according to Pendeville et al. Pendeville et al. 2001 . The animals were provided with water or with the indicated drugs and mouse chow ad libitum and housed in rooms illuminated for 12 h day.

Mice were euthanized by cervical dislocation 44 46 h after they were primed with 5 IU equine chorionic gonadotropin eCG intraperitonally. For putrescine supplementation 1 putrescine was in all drinking water for 7 days until euthanization for experiments described in Table 13. Ovaries were immediately removed and minced in M2 medium Sigma unless otherwise indicated other chemicals used in this study were also purchased from Sigma to release oocytes. Oocytes with a clear germinal vesicle GV were used for in vitro maturation IVM for 17 hours in IVM medium MEM medium supplemented with 5 fetal bovine serum and 1 mM L glutamine overlaid with mineral oil.

In order to collect mature metaphase II oocytes in vivo ovulation experiments each mouse was injected with 5 IU human chorionic gonadotropin hCG intraperitoneally 44 46 h after eCG priming. The animals were euthanized 16 18 h after hCG injection and MII eggs were flushed out of oviducts in M2 medium and subjected to karyotype analyses as described below. For mice that were treated with 1 DFMO in drinking water the drugs were present until the time of euthanization see for details .

To produce 2 cell embryos mice were sequentially injected with eCG and hCG as above for ovulation. After hCG injection the females were caged singly with fertile young males overnight. For mice that were treated with 1 DFMO the drug was withdrawn and normal water resumed at the time of hCG injection see for details . The females were separated from the males in the next morning day 1 post coital or p.c. . Females were euthanized in the late morning on day 2 p.c. and the embryos were collected by flushing the oviducts with M2 medium. After three rinses in KSOM medium the embryos were cultured 17 h in KSOM containing 0.02 g ml colchicine to cause metaphase arrest of the 2 cell embryos.

Chromosome spread was carried out according to Hodges and Hunt Hodges Hunt 2002 with minor modifications. In brief oocytes or 2 cell embryos were collected in M2 medium. The zona pellucida was removed by treatment with 0.5 units l pronase at 37 C. for 20 sec. Zona free oocytes embryos were rinsed in M2 medium to detach polar bodies. The oocytes embryos were individually plated onto glass slides 1 10 oocytes embryos per slide predipped in the fixative prepared weekly and stored at 4 C. containing 1 paraformaldehyde w v 0.15 Triton X 100 v v and 3 mM dithiothreitol pH 9.2. Slides were kept overnight in moist boxes at room temperature. The slides were then rinsed in 0.5 Kodak Flo Eastman Kodak Company Rochester N.Y. solution and air dried. The slides were incubated in 1 200 diluted human anti centromere serum Immunovision Springdale Ark. in PBS containing 1 BSA overnight at 4 C. in 1 300 diluted secondary antibody goat anti human conjugated with rhodamine Jackson ImmunoResearch in PBS BSA for 1 h at room temperature and 0.1 SYTOX green Invitrogen Eugene Oreg. in PBS for 30 min at room temperature. To avoid bias the slides were coded by a colleague before being examined by an investigator using epifluorescence microscopy and photographed. Decoding was done after karyotypes were tabulated.

After 44 46 h eCG priming or 6 h following the subsequent hCG injection the ovaries were collected into Eppendorf tubes and frozen at 80 C. immediately till use. The ovaries were weighed and minced with optical scissors. Lysis buffer 25 mM Tris HCl pH 7.2 2 mM dithiothreitol 0.1 mM EDTA 0.25 M sucrose 0.1 Triton X 100 v v modified from Bastida et al. Bastida et al. 2005 was added 25 L per mg ovarian tissues and the resulting suspension homogenized by sonication Fisher Sonic Demembrator New York USA for 20 seconds thrice. The ovarian homogenates were centrifuged at 16 000 g for 10 min. Supernatants were applied to ODC assays Zhou et al. 2009 in microtiter plates each well containing 50 L of lysate plus 0.1 mM pyridoxyl 5 phosphate and 0.5 Ci 57.1 mCi mmol of 14C labeled ornithine PerkinElmer Boston Mass. . The wells were tightly covered with 3MM paper pre wet in freshly prepared water saturated Ba OH . The wells were incubated 1 h at 37 C. COreleased from decarboxylation reaction formed BaCOprecipitates on filter. The 3MM paper was exposed to a Storage phosphor screen overnight to capture the latent images produced by 14C emitted radiation. The Storage phosphor screen was then scanned on Typhoon imaging system GE Healthcare Life Sciences resulting in digital images that were then quantified by Image Quant5.2 GE Healthcare Life Sciences . ODC activity is expressed as relative light intensity in arbitrary units. To determine the absolute ODC activity in ovarian extracts the reaction strips with captured BaCOwere exposed to the Storage phosphor screen alongside a strip spotted with a dilution series of known quantities of 14C labeled ornithine used for calibration.

9 month old female mice were supplemented with 1 putrescine in drinking water or control drinking water. For the mice supplemented with putrescine assuming that a 50 g lab mouse drinks 5 g of water per day this would result in a dose of about 1 g of putrescine kg of body weight.

Four 4 days later the female mice are caged individually with fertile males 1 1 overnight. The females were examined in the morning for the presence of a vaginal plug indicative of mating and plugged females are considered E0 and separated from the males. Mice without a plug were continued mating until a plug was seen or for up to a total of 4 days average length of a mouse estrus cycle . Mice were sacrificed on E12 unplugged mice were also sacrificed taking the next morning following the 4 day mating as E0 and their uterine horns inspected for normal embryos and dead embryos resorption . As a control similar experiments were conducted with young mice 8 weeks .

Polyamines from ovarian samples were determined by ion chromatography IC system Rey and Pohl 2003. J. Chromatography A 997 199 206 . Ovaries were collected immediately after animal sacrifice and stored at 80 C. until use. The samples were thawed and minced and then 5 trichloroacetic acid TCA was added 20 l mg . The samples were ultra sonicated 30 seconds thrice. After centrifugation the supernatants were extracted twice with diethyl ether. The mouse blood was collected in a tube containing 1 iu ml heparin LEO . After centrifugation the supernatant plasma was collected and 10 TCA was added by 1 1 in volume. These plasma samples were extracted twice with diethyl ether as noted above. The extracts were diluted 10 times in water for polyamine analysis on Dionex Ion ICS 2100 system Thermo scientific Dionex Sunnyvale Calif. USA according to the manufacture instructions using the support software of PeakNet 6.40 SP5 Build 778. To quantify the polyamine concentrations a standard curve was established with serial dilutions of putrescine spermidine and spermine.

All statistical analyses were performed using GraphPad Prism 5.02. The data in chromosomal spread were analyzed by Fisher s Exact test two tailed . The P values are indicated in the tables.

In the preceding description for purposes of explanation numerous details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the examples. However it will be apparent to one skilled in the art that these specific details are not required.

The above described examples are intended to be exemplary only. Alterations modifications and variations can be effected to the particular examples by those of skill in the art without departing from the scope which is defined solely by the claims appended hereto.

