---

title: Cyclin dependent kinase inhibitors and methods of use
abstract: The presently disclosed subject matter relates to methods and compositions for protecting healthy cells from damage due to DNA damaging agents. In particular, the presently disclosed subject matter relates to the protective action of selective cyclin dependent kinase 4/6 (CDK4/6) inhibitors administered to subjects that have been exposed to or that are at risk of exposure to DNA damage.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09616062&OS=09616062&RS=09616062
owner: The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill
number: 09616062
owner_city: Chapel Hill
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131211
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 319 828 filed on Dec. 29 2011 which is a national stage application of International Application No. PCT US2010 034816 filed on May 13 2010 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 177 724 filed May 13 2009 the disclosures of each of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.

This invention was made with government support under Grant Nos. AG024379 CA090679 awarded by the National Institutes of Health. The government has certain rights in the invention.

The presently disclosed subject matter relates to methods and compositions for protecting healthy cells from DNA damage and augmenting the efficacy of toxicity reducing agents such as growth factors. In addition the presently disclosed subject matter relates to methods and compositions for treating autoimmune diseases by blocking the proliferation of certain immune cells. In particular the presently disclosed subject matter relates to uses of selective cyclin dependent kinase 4 6 CDK4 6 inhibitors to induce pharmacologic quiescence in certain stem and progenitor cell populations within a mammalian subject and thereby enhancing clinical outcomes for that subject.

The treatment of cancer often includes the use of DNA damaging drugs and or other DNA damaging agents such as ionizing radiation. These treatments can be non specific and particularly at high doses toxic to normal rapidly dividing cells. This often leads to various side effects in patients undergoing cancer treatment.

For example bone marrow suppression a severe reduction of blood cell production in bone marrow is one such side effect. It is characterized by both myelosuppression anemia neutropenia agranulocytosis and thrombocytopenia and lymphopenia. Neutropenia is characterized by a selective decrease in the number of circulating neutrophils and an enhanced susceptibility to bacterial infections. Anemia a reduction in the number of red blood cells or erythrocytes the quantity of hemoglobin or the volume of packed red blood cells characterized by a determination of the hematocrit affects approximately 67 of cancer patients undergoing chemotherapy in the United States. See page 4 Jul. 23 2002. Thrombocytopenia is a reduction in platelet number with increased susceptibility to bleeding. Lymphopenia is a common side effect of chemotherapy characterized by reductions in the numbers of circulating lymphocytes also called T and B cells . Lymphopenic patients are predisposed to a number of types of infections.

Thus the medical practitioner typically has to balance the efficacy of chemotherapeutic and radiotherapeutic techniques in destroying abnormal proliferative cells with associated cytotoxic effects on normal cells. Because of this the therapeutic index of chemotherapy and radiotherapy techniques is narrowed often resulting in incomplete tumor reduction tumor recurrence increasing tumor burden and induction of chemotherapy and or radiation resistant tumors.

Numerous methods have been designed in an effort to reduce normal tissue damage while still delivering effective therapeutic doses of DNA damaging agents. With regard to IR these techniques include brachytherapy fractionated and hyperfractionated dosing complicated dose scheduling and delivery systems and high voltage therapy with a linear accelerator. However such techniques only attempt to strike a balance between the therapeutic and undesirable effects of the radiation and full efficacy has not been achieved.

Small molecules have been used to reduce some of the side effects of certain chemotherapeutic compounds. For example leukovorin has been used to mitigate the effects of methotrexate on bone marrow cells and on gastrointestinal mucosa cells. Amifostine has been used to reduce the incidence of neutropenia related fever and mucositis in patients receiving alkylating or platinum containing chemotherapeutics. Also dexrazoxane has been used to provide cardioprotection from anthracycline anti cancer compounds. Unfortunately there is concern that many chemoprotectants such as dexrazoxane and amifostine can decrease the efficacy of chemotherapy given concomitantly.

Additional chemoprotectant therapies include the use of growth factors. Hematopoietic growth factors are available on the market as recombinant proteins. These proteins include granulocyte colony stimulating factor G CSF and granulocyte macrophage colony stimulating factor GM CSF and their derivatives for the treatment of neutropenia and erythropoietin EPO and its derivatives for the treatment of anemia. However while growth factors can hasten recovery of some blood cell lineages they do not treat suppression of platelets macrophages T cells or B cells.

The non selective kinase inhibitor staurosporine has been shown to afford protection from DNA damaging agents in some cultured cell types. See Chen et al. 92 1999 2008 2000 and Ojeda et al. 61 663 667 1992 . Staurosporine is a naturally occurring product and non selective kinase inhibitor that binds most mammalian kinases with high affinity. See Karaman et al. 26 127 132 2008 . Staurosporine treatment can elicit an array of cellular responses including apoptosis cell cycle arrest and cell cycle checkpoint compromise depending on cell type drug concentration and length of exposure. For example staurosporine has been shown to sensitize cells to DNA damaging agents such as ionizing radiation and chemotherapy see Bernhard et al. 69 575 584 1996 Teyssier et al. 86 345 357 1999 Hallahan et al. 129 345 350 1992 Zhang et al. 15 1 7 1993 Guo et al. 82 97 109 2006 Bucher and Britten 98 523 528 2008 Laredo et al. 84 229 237 1994 Luo et al. 3 411 419 2001 Wang et al. 31 411 415 1996 Chen et al. 92 1999 2008 2000 and Hirose et al. 61 5843 5849 2001 through several claimed mechanisms including abrogation of a G2 checkpoint response. The mechanism whereby staurosporine treatment affords protection from DNA damaging agents in some cultured cell types is unclear with a few possible mechanisms suggested including inhibition of protein kinase C or decreasing CDK4 protein levels. See Chen et al. 92 1999 2008 2000 and Ojeda et al. 61 663 667 1992 . No effect of staurosporine has been shown on hematopoietic progenitors nor has staurosporine use well after exposure to DNA damaging agents been shown to afford protection. Further staurosporine s non selective kinase inhibition has led to significant toxicities independent of its effects on the cell cycle e.g. hyperglycemia after in vivo administration to mammals and these toxicities have precluded its clinical use.

Accordingly there is an ongoing need for practical methods to protect subjects who are scheduled to incur are at risk for incurring or who have already incurred exposure to DNA damaging agents and or events and methods of augmenting the efficacy of toxicity reducing agents. In addition an ongoing need exists for methods and compositions for treating autoimmune diseases by blocking the proliferation of immune cells.

In some embodiments the presently disclosed subject matter provides a method of increasing the efficacy of a toxicity reducing agent in a subject in need of treatment thereof the method comprising providing a subject that has been exposed to is being exposed to or is at risk of being exposed to a DNA damaging agent or event administering to said subject a toxicity reducing agent and administering to said subject a pharmaceutically effective amount of a compound that selectively inhibits cyclin dependent kinase 4 CDK4 and or cyclin dependent kinase 6 CDK6 .

In some embodiments the toxicity reducing agent is a chemotherapy toxicity reducing agent. In some embodiments the toxicity reducing agent is a radiation toxicity reducing agent.

In some embodiments the toxicity reducing agent comprises one or more agents selected from the group comprising but not limited to a growth factor a granulocyte colony stimulating factor G CSF a pegylated G CSF granulocyte macrophage colony stimulating factor GM CSF thrombopoietin erythropoietin pegylated erythropoietin interleukin IL 12 steel factor a keratinocyte growth factor or a derivative thereof.

In some embodiments the compound that selectively inhibits CDK4 and or CDK6 induces pharmacologic quiescence in one or more cells within the subject. In some embodiments the one or more cells are each selected from the group comprising a hematologic cell a hematologic stem cell and a hematologic precursor cell.

In some embodiments the compound that selectively inhibits CDK4 and or CDK6 is administered to the subject prior to the subject being exposed to the DNA damaging agent or event at the same time the subject is being exposed to the DNA damaging agent or event or after exposure of the subject to the DNA damaging agent or event. In some embodiments the compound that selectively inhibits CDK4 and or CDK6 is administered to the subject between about 24 and about 48 hours after exposure of the subject to the DNA damaging agent or event.

In some embodiments the presently disclosed subject matter provides a method of mitigating DNA damage in a non hematologic cell or tissue in a subject in need of treatment thereof prior to or following exposure of the cell or tissue to a DNA damaging agent or event the method comprising administering to the subject a pharmaceutically effective amount of a compound that selectively inhibits CDK4 and or CDK6. In some embodiments the non hematologic cell or tissue is comprises a cell or tissue from one of the group comprising kidney gut heart liver brain thyroid skin intestinal mucosa auditory system lung bladder ovaries uterus testicles adrenals gallbladder pancreas pancreatic islets stomach blood vessels bone and combinations thereof.

In some embodiments the presently disclosed subject matter provides a method of reducing or inhibiting memory T cell proliferation in a subject in need of treatment thereof the method comprising administering to the subject a pharmaceutically effective amount of a compound that selectively inhibits CDK4 and or CDK6 to the subject.

In some embodiments the subject has or is at risk of developing an autoimmune or allergic disease. In some embodiments the autoimmune or allergic disease is selected from the group comprising systemic lupus erythematosus SLE rheumatoid arthritis RA autoimmune arthritis scleroderma hemolytic anemia autoimmune aplastic anemia autoimmune granulocytopenia type I diabetes thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura TTP psoriasis inflammatory bowel disease Crohn s disease ulcerative colitis contact dermatitis polymyalgia rheumatica uveitis immune pneumonitis autoimmune hepatitis immune nephritis immune glomerulonephritis multiple sclerosis autoimmune neuropathy vitiligo discoid lupus Wegener s Granulomatosis Henoch Schoelein Purpura sclerosing cholangitis autoimmune thyroiditis autoimmune myocarditis autoimmune vasculitis dermatomyositis extrinsic and intrinsic reactive airways disease asthma myasthenia gravis autoimmune ovarian failure pernicious anemia Addison s disease autoimmune hypoparathyroidism and other syndromes of inappropriate cellular immune response.

In some embodiments the presently disclosed subject matter provides a method of reducing or inhibiting B cell progenitor proliferation in a subject in need of treatment thereof the method comprising administering to the subject a pharmaceutically effective amount of a compound that selectively inhibits CDK4 and or CDK6 to the subject.

In some embodiments the subject has or is at risk of developing an autoimmune or allergic disease. In some embodiments the autoimmune or allergic disease is selected from the group consisting of systemic lupus erythematosus SLE rheumatoid arthritis RA scleroderma hemolytic anemia idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura ITP acquired inhibitors in hemophilia thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura TTP Goodpasture s syndrome cold and warm agglutin diseases cryoglobulinemia and syndromes of inappropriate antibody production.

In some embodiments the presently disclosed subject matter provides a method for mitigating an autoimmune or allergic disease in a subject in need of treatment thereof the method comprising administering to the subject a pharmaceutically effective amount of a compound that selectively inhibits CDK4 and or CDK6 wherein said compound reduces or inhibits memory T cell proliferation B cell progenitor proliferation or both memory T cell proliferation and B cell progenitor proliferation.

In some embodiments the autoimmune or allergic disease is selected from the group comprising systemic lupus erythematosus SLE rheumatoid arthritis RA autoimmune arthritis scleroderma hemolytic anemia autoimmune aplastic anemia autoimmune granulocytopenia type I diabetes thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura TTP psoriasis inflammatory bowel disease Crohn s disease ulcerative colitis contact dermatitis polymyalgia rheumatica uveitis immune pneumonitis autoimmune hepatitis immune nephritis immune glomerulonephritis multiple sclerosis autoimmune neuropathy vitiligo discoid lupus Wegener s Granulomatosis Henoch Schoelein Purpura sclerosing cholangitis autoimmune thyroiditis autoimmune myocarditis autoimmune vasculitis dermatomyositis extrinsic and intrinsic reactive airways disease asthma myasthenia gravis autoimmune ovarian failure pernicious anemia Addison s disease autoimmune hypoparathyroidism other syndromes of an inappropriate cellular immune response Goodpasture s syndrome cold and warm agglutin diseases cryoglobulinemia and syndromes of inappropriate antibody production.

In some embodiments the presently disclosed subject matter provides a method of treating cancer in a subject in need of treatment thereof wherein the cancer is characterized by an increased level of cyclin dependent kinase 2 CDK2 activity or by reduced expression of retinoblastoma tumor suppressor protein or a retinoblastoma family member protein the method comprising administering to the subject a pharmaceutically effective amount of a compound that selectively inhibits CDK4 and or CDK6.

In some embodiments the compound that selectively inhibits CDK4 and or CDK6 does not induce pharmacologic quiescence in cancer cells. In some embodiments the compound that selectively inhibits CDK4 and or CDK6 increases the sensitivity of cancer cells to DNA damaging agents. In some embodiments the increase in sensitivity increases cancer cell death.

In some embodiments the increased level of CDK2 activity is associated with MYC protooncogene amplification or overexpression. In some embodiments the increased level of CDK2 activity is associated with overexpression of Cyclin E1 Cyclin E2 or Cyclin A.

In some embodiments administration of the compound that selectively inhibits CDK4 and or CDK6 mitigates hematologic toxicities associated with exposure to a DNA damaging agent or event. In some embodiments administration of the compound that selectively inhibits CDK4 and or CDK6 mitigates long term toxicities such as secondary malignancy and myelodysplasia associated with exposure to a DNA damaging agent or event.

In some embodiments the compound that selectively inhibits CDK4 and or CDK6 is administered to the subject prior to the subject being exposed to the DNA damaging agent or event at the same time the subject is being exposed to the DNA damaging agent or event or after exposure of the subject to the DNA damaging agent or event. In some embodiments the compound that selectively inhibits CDK4 and or CDK6 is administered to the subject between about 24 and about 48 hours after exposure of the subject to the DNA damaging agent or event.

In some embodiments the presently disclosed subject matter provides a method of mitigating chemotherapy induced or radiotherapy induced secondary malignancies of hematological or non hematological origin in a subject the method comprising administering to the subject a pharmacologically effective amount of a compound that selectively inhibits CDK4 and or CDK6. In some embodiments the compound that selectively inhibits CDK4 and or CDK6 is administered to the subject prior to or during the same time period that the subject is undergoing chemotherapy or radiation based therapy to treat a primary malignancy.

It is an object of the presently disclosed subject matter to provide methods of protecting healthy cells in subjects from the effects of DNA damaging agents and of treating certain conditions by administering to the subject an effective amount of a selective CDK4 6 inhibitor compound.

An object of the presently disclosed subject matter having been stated hereinabove and which is achieved in whole or in part by the presently disclosed subject matter other objects will become evident as the description proceeds when taken in connection with the accompanying drawings as best described herein below.

The presently disclosed subject matter will now be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying Examples in which representative embodiments are shown. The presently disclosed subject matter can however be embodied in different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein. Rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of the embodiments to those skilled in the art.

Unless otherwise defined all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this presently described subject matter belongs. All publications patent applications patents and other references mentioned herein are incorporated by reference in their entirety.

Throughout the specification and claims a given chemical formula or name shall encompass all active optical and stereoisomers as well as racemic mixtures where such isomers and mixtures exist.

While the following terms are believed to be well understood by one of ordinary skill in the art the following definitions are set forth to facilitate explanation of the presently disclosed subject matter.

Following long standing patent law convention the terms a an and the refer to one or more when used in this application including the claims. Thus for example reference to a compound or a cell includes a plurality of such compounds or cells and so forth.

The term comprising which is synonymous with including containing or characterized by is inclusive or open ended and does not exclude additional unrecited elements or method steps. Comprising is a term of art used in claim language which means that the named elements are essential but other elements can be added and still form a construct within the scope of the claim.

As used herein the phrase consisting of excludes any element step or ingredient not specified in the claim. When the phrase consists of appears in a clause of the body of a claim rather than immediately following the preamble it limits only the element set forth in that clause other elements are not excluded from the claim as a whole.

As used herein the phrase consisting essentially of limits the scope of a claim to the specified materials or steps plus those that do not materially affect the basic and novel characteristic s of the claimed subject matter.

With respect to the terms comprising consisting of and consisting essentially of where one of these three terms is used herein the presently disclosed and claimed subject matter can include the use of either of the other two terms.

The term and or when used in describing two items or conditions e.g. CDK4 and or CDK6 refers to situations where both items or conditions are present or applicable and to situations wherein only one of the items or conditions is present or applicable. Thus a CDK4 and or CDK6 inhibitor can be a compound that inhibits both CDK4 and CDK6 a compound that inhibits only CDK4 or a compound that only inhibits CDK6.

By healthy cell or normal cell is meant any cell in a subject that does not display characteristics symptoms and or markers of a disease such as but not limited to cancer or another proliferative disease . In some embodiments the healthy cell is a stem cell. In some embodiments the healthy cell is a hematopoietic stem or progenitor cell HSPC . Progenitor cells include but are not limited to long term hematopoietic stem cells LT HSCs short term hematopoietic stem cells ST HSCs multipotent progenitors MPPs common myeloid progenitors CMPs common lymphoid progenitors CLPs granulocyte monocyte progenitors GMPs and megakaryocyte erythroid progenitors MEPs . Progenitor cells can also include mature effector cells derived from hematopoietic stem cells including but not limited to erythrocytes platelets granulocytes macrophages T cells and B cells.

In some embodiments the healthy cell is a cell in a non hematopoietic tissue such as but not limited to the liver kidney pancreas brain lung adrenals intestine gut stomach skin auditory system bone bladder ovaries uterus testicles gallbladder thyroid heart pancreatic islets blood vessels and the like.

By DNA damaging agent or event is meant herein both DNA damaging chemical compounds and other effectors of DNA damage e.g. ionizing radiation . Thus a DNA damaging agent or event can include chemotherapeutic and radiation treatment provided for a particular purpose such as but not limited to a medical purpose e.g. to treat cancer or other diseases related to overproliferation of cells . DNA damaging agents and events can also relate to accidental exposure to DNA damaging chemical compounds and or other agents that can take place for example due to unexpected environmental exposure e.g. in the workplace or in another environment due to for example a chemical spill improper disposal or other improper handling of chemical or radiological waste failure of safety measures and or personal protective gear during the use of DNA damaging chemicals or radiation terrorist attack warfare or industrial and or nuclear power plant accident .

As used herein the term ionizing radiation refers to radiation of sufficient energy that when absorbed by cells and tissues typically induces formation of reactive oxygen species and DNA damage. Ionizing radiation can include X rays gamma rays and particle bombardment e.g. neutron beam electron beam protons mesons and others and is used for purposes including but not limited to medical testing and treatment scientific purposes industrial testing manufacturing and sterilization and weapons and weapons development. Radiation is generally measured in units of absorbed dose such as the rad or gray Gy or in units of dose equivalence such as rem or sievert Sv .

By at risk of being exposed to a DNA damaging agent or event is meant a subject scheduled for such as by scheduled radiotherapy or chemotherapy sessions exposure to a DNA damaging agent or event in the future or a subject having a chance of being exposed to a DNA damaging agent or event inadvertently in the future. Inadvertent exposure includes accidental or unplanned environmental or occupational exposure e.g. terrorist attack with a radiological or chemical weapon a chemical spill or radiation leak or exposure to a radiological or chemical weapon on the battlefield .

The term cancer as used herein refers to diseases caused by uncontrolled cell division and the ability of cells to metastasize or to establish new growth in additional sites. The terms malignancy neoplasm tumor and variations thereof refer to cancerous cells or groups of cancerous cells.

Specific types of cancer include but are not limited to skin cancers connective tissue cancers adipose cancers breast cancers lung cancers stomach cancers pancreatic cancers ovarian cancers cervical cancers uterine cancers anogenital cancers kidney cancers bladder cancers colon cancers prostate cancers head and neck cancers brain cancers central nervous system CNS cancers retinal cancer blood and lymphoid cancers.

In some embodiments the term cancer refers to a cancer that can be characterized by e.g. that has cells that exhibit an increased level of CDK2 activity or by reduced expression of retinoblastoma tumor suppressor protein or retinoblastoma family member protein s such as but not limited to p107 and p130. The increased level of CDK2 activity or reduced expression of retinoblastoma tumor suppressor protein or retinoblastoma family member protein s can be increased or reduced for example compared to normal cells. In some embodiments the increased level of CDK2 activity can be associated with e.g. can result from or be observed along with MYC protooncogene amplification or overexpression. In some embodiments the increased level of CDK2 activity can be associated with overexpression of Cyclin E1 Cyclin E2 or Cyclin A.

As used herein the term chemotherapy refers to treatment with a cytotoxic compound such as but not limited to a DNA damaging compound to reduce or eliminate the growth or proliferation of undesirable cells such as but not limited to cancer cells. Thus as used herein chemotherapeutic compound refers to a cytotoxic compound used to treat cancer. The cytotoxic effect of the compound can be but is not required to be the result of one or more of nucleic acid intercalation or binding DNA or RNA alkylation inhibition of RNA or DNA synthesis the inhibition of another nucleic acid related activity e.g. protein synthesis or any other cytotoxic effect.

Thus a cytotoxic compound can be any one or any combination of compounds also described as antineoplastic agents or chemotherapeutic agents. Such compounds include but are not limited to DNA damaging compounds and other chemicals that can kill cells. DNA damaging compounds include but are not limited to alkylating agents DNA intercalators protein synthesis inhibitors inhibitors of DNA or RNA synthesis DNA base analogs topoisomerase inhibitors and telomerase inhibitors or telomeric DNA binding compounds. For example alkylating agents include alkyl sulfonates such as busulfan improsulfan and piposulfan aziridines such as a benzodizepa carboquone meturedepa and uredepa ethylenimines and methylmelamines such as altretamine triethylenemelamine triethylenephosphoramide triethylenethiophosphoramide and trimethylolmelamine nitrogen mustards such as chlorambucil chlornaphazine cyclophosphamide estramustine iphosphamide mechlorethamine mechlorethamine oxide hydrochloride melphalan novembichine phenesterine prednimustine trofosfamide and uracil mustard and nitroso ureas such as carmustine chlorozotocin fotemustine lomustine nimustine and ranimustine.

Antibiotics used in the treatment of cancer include dactinomycin daunorubicin doxorubicin idarubicin bleomycin sulfate mytomycin plicamycin and streptozocin. Chemotherapeutic antimetabolites include mercaptopurine thioguanine cladribine fludarabine phosphate fluorouracil 5 FU floxuridine cytarabine pentostatin methotrexate and azathioprine acyclovir adenine 1 D arabinoside amethopterin aminopterin 2 aminopurine aphidicolin 8 azaguanine azaserine 6 azauracil 2 azido 2 deoxynucleosides 5 bromodeoxycytidine cytosine 1 D arabinoside diazooxynorleucine dideoxynucleosides 5 fluorodeoxycytidine 5 fluorodeoxyuridine and hydroxyurea.

Chemotherapeutic protein synthesis inhibitors include abrin aurintricarboxylic acid chloramphenicol colicin E3 cycloheximide diphtheria toxin edeine A emetine erythromycin ethionine fluoride 5 fluorotryptophan fusidic acid guanylyl methylene diphosphonate and guanylyl imidodiphosphate kanamycin kasugamycin kirromycin and O methyl threonine. Additional protein synthesis inhibitors include modeccin neomycin norvaline pactamycin paromomycine puromycin ricin shiga toxin showdomycin sparsomycin spectinomycin streptomycin tetracycline thiostrepton and trimethoprim. Inhibitors of DNA synthesis include alkylating agents such as dimethyl sulfate mitomycin C nitrogen and sulfur mustards intercalating agents such as acridine dyes actinomycins adriamycin anthracenes benzopyrene ethidium bromide propidium diiodide intertwining and other agents such as distamycin and netropsin. Topoisomerase inhibitors such as coumermycin nalidixic acid novobiocin and oxolinic acid inhibitors of cell division including colcemide colchicine vinblastine and vincristine and RNA synthesis inhibitors including actinomycin D amanitine and other fungal amatoxins cordycepin 3 deoxyadenosine dichlororibofuranosyl benzimidazole rifampicine streptovaricin and streptolydigin also can be used as the DNA damaging compound

Thus current chemotherapeutic compounds whose toxic effects can be mitigated by the presently disclosed selective CDK4 6 inhibitors include but are not limited to adrimycin 5 fluorouracil 5FU etoposide camptothecin actinomycin D mitomycin cisplatin hydrogen peroxide carboplatin procarbazine mechlorethamine cyclophosphamide ifosfamide melphalan chlorambucil bisulfan nitrosurea dactinomycin daunorubicin doxorubicin bleomycin plicomycin tamoxifen taxol transplatinum vinblastin and methotrexate and the like.

By toxicity reducing agent is meant a compound or other agent that is used to reduce the cytotoxic effects of an agent or event such as but not limited to a DNA damaging agent or event. In some embodiments the toxicity reducing agent is a compound that is other than a compound that selectively inhibits one or more cyclin dependent kinase s . The toxicity reducing agent is an agent that can prevent or reduce DNA damage in a cell tissue or subject treated with or otherwise exposed to a DNA damaging agent or event. The prevention or reducing of DNA damage effected by the toxicity reducing agent can affect certain cells e.g. certain healthy in a subject while not providing any effect in other cells e.g. in diseased and or tumor cells in a subject. Thus the use of the toxicity reducing agent can protect certain cells in a subject in order to allow more frequent or higher dose use of DNA damaging agents during a disease treatment regime. In some embodiments the toxicity reducing agent reduces undesired cytotoxicity due to the use of a chemotherapeutic agent. In some embodiments the toxicity reducing agent can reduce undesired cytotoxicity resulting from radiation.

In some embodiments the toxicity reducing agent is a growth factor or other naturally occurring compound or a derivative thereof. In some embodiments the toxicity reducing agent is selected from the group comprising but not limited to a growth factor a granulocyte colony stimulating factor G CSF a pegylated G CSF granulocyte macrophage colony stimulating factor GM CSF thrombopoietin erythropoietin pegylated erythropoietin interleukin IL 12 steel factor a keratinocyte growth factor or to derivatives thereof e.g. chemically modified compounds having structures based upon one of the foregoing named toxicity reducing agents such as alkylated or esterified derivatives .

 Increasing the efficacy of a toxicity reducing agent refers to the ability of a selective CDK4 and or CDK6 inhibitor to increase the efficacy of a toxicity reducing agent. Thus the term can refer to beneficial use of a combination of a toxicity reducing agent and a selective CDK4 and or CDK6 inhibitor. For example use of the combination can result in higher tolerance of the subject to a given amount or to a given frequency of administration of a DNA damaging agent or event that the tolerance the subject would have had when given the toxicity reducing agent or selective CDK4 and or CDK6 inhibitor alone. The use of the combination can provide a higher level of protection from a side effect caused by a DNA damaging event such as but not limited to a greater reduction in myelosuppression or a lower probability of occurrence of a secondary malignancy . The use of the combination can also provide protection from a wider range of side effects due to exposure to the DNA damaging agent or event and or protection in a wider variety of types of cells and or tissues in the subject. For instance in some embodiments a selective CDK4 and or CDK6 inhibitor can provide synergistic effects when used in combination with a growth factor to rescue and support the various hematopoietic populations from a DNA damaging agent or event.

By pharmaceutically effect amount of a compound is meant an amount effective to provide a beneficial result in the subject. For example it can be the amount effective to reduce or eliminate the toxicity associated with the DNA damaging agent or event e.g. the chemotherapy or other exposure to a cytotoxic compound in healthy HSPCs in the subject or the IR . In some embodiments the effective amount is the amount required to temporarily e.g. for a few hours or days inhibit the proliferation of hematopoietic stem cells i.e. to induce a quiescent state in hematopoietic stem cells in the subject.

In some embodiments the compound that selectively inhibits CDK4 and or CDK6 is free of off target effects. Free of can refer to a selective CDK4 6 inhibitor compound not having an undesired or off target effect particularly when used in vivo or assessed via a cell based assay. Thus free of can refer to a selective CDK4 6 inhibitor not having off target effects such as but not limited to long term toxicity anti oxidant effects estrogenic effects tyrosine kinase inhibitory effects inhibitory effects on CDKs other than CDK4 6 and or cell cycle arrest in CDK4 6 independent cells.

A selective CDK4 6 inhibitor that is substantially free of off target effects is a CDK4 6 inhibitor that can have some minor off target effects that do not interfere with the inhibitor s ability to provide protection from cytotoxic compounds in CDK4 6 dependent cells. For example a CDK4 6 inhibitor that is substantially free of off target effects can have some minor inhibitory effects on other CDKs e.g. ICs for CDK1 or CDK2 that are 0.5 M 1.0 M or 5.0 M so long as the inhibitor provides selective G1 arrest in CDK4 6 dependent cells.

By reduced or prevented or grammatical variations thereof means respectively lessening the effects or keeping the effects from occurring completely. Mitigating can refer to reducing and or preventing.

By at risk of developing an autoimmune disease refers to a subject that is suspected of having a likelihood of developing an autoimmune disease for reasons including but not limited to for example due to having one or more genetic marker associated with an autoimmune disease having a family history of autoimmune disease and or having had exposure to an environmental agent that is suspected of triggering the onset of an autoimmune disease. The term can also apply to subjects that have been diagnosed with an autoimmune disease previously but who are in remission and or are currently symptom free.

In some embodiments the subject treated in the presently disclosed subject matter is desirably a human subject although it is to be understood the methods described herein are effective with respect to all vertebrate species e.g. mammals birds etc. which are intended to be included in the term subject. 

More particularly provided herein is the treatment of mammals such as humans as well as those mammals of importance due to being endangered such as Siberian tigers of economical importance animals raised on farms for consumption by humans and or social importance animals kept as pets or in zoos to humans for instance carnivores other than humans such as cats and dogs swine pigs hogs and wild boars ruminants such as cattle oxen sheep giraffes deer goats bison and camels and horses. Thus embodiments of the methods described herein include the treatment of livestock including but not limited to domesticated swine pigs and hogs ruminants horses and the like.

As used herein the term alkyl refers to Cinclusive linear i.e. straight chain branched or cyclic saturated or at least partially and in some cases fully unsaturated i.e. alkenyl and alkynyl hydrocarbon chains including for example methyl ethyl propyl isopropyl butyl isobutyl tert butyl pentyl hexyl octyl ethenyl propenyl butenyl pentenyl hexenyl octenyl butadienyl propynyl butynyl pentynyl hexynyl heptynyl and allenyl groups. Branched refers to an alkyl group in which a lower alkyl group such as methyl ethyl or propyl is attached to a linear alkyl chain. Lower alkyl refers to an alkyl group having 1 to about 8 carbon atoms i.e. a Calkyl e.g. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 or 8 carbon atoms. Higher alkyl refers to an alkyl group having about 10 to about 20 carbon atoms e.g. 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 or 20 carbon atoms. In certain embodiments alkyl refers in particular to Cstraight chain alkyls. In other embodiments alkyl refers in particular to Cbranched chain alkyls.

Alkyl groups can optionally be substituted a substituted alkyl with one or more alkyl group substituents which can be the same or different. The term alkyl group substituent includes but is not limited to alkyl substituted alkyl halo arylamino acyl hydroxyl aryloxyl alkoxyl alkylthio arylthio aralkyloxyl aralkylthio carboxyl alkoxycarbonyl oxo and cycloalkyl. There can be optionally inserted along the alkyl chain one or more oxygen sulfur or substituted or unsubstituted nitrogen atoms wherein the nitrogen substituent is hydrogen lower alkyl also referred to herein as alkylaminoalkyl or aryl.

Thus as used herein the term substituted alkyl includes alkyl groups as defined herein in which one or more atoms or functional groups of the alkyl group are replaced with another atom or functional group including for example alkyl substituted alkyl halogen aryl substituted aryl alkoxyl hydroxyl nitro amino alkylamino dialkylamino sulfate and mercapto.

The term aryl is used herein to refer to an aromatic moiety that can be a single aromatic ring or multiple aromatic rings that are fused together linked covalently or linked to a common group such as but not limited to a methylene or ethylene moiety. The common linking group also can be a carbonyl as in benzophenone or oxygen as in diphenylether or nitrogen as in diphenylamine. The term aryl specifically encompasses heterocyclic aromatic compounds. The aromatic ring s can comprise phenyl naphthyl biphenyl diphenylether diphenylamine and benzophenone among others. In particular embodiments the term aryl means a cyclic aromatic comprising about 5 to about 10 carbon atoms e.g. 5 6 7 8 9 or 10 carbon atoms and including 5 and 6 membered hydrocarbon and heterocyclic aromatic rings.

The aryl group can be optionally substituted a substituted aryl with one or more aryl group substituents which can be the same or different wherein aryl group substituent includes alkyl substituted alkyl aryl substituted aryl aralkyl hydroxyl alkoxyl aryloxyl aralkyloxyl carboxyl carbonyl acyl halo nitro alkoxycarbonyl aryloxycarbonyl aralkoxycarbonyl acyloxyl acylamino aroylamino carbamoyl alkylcarbamoyl dialkylcarbamoyl arylthio alkylthio alkylene and NR R wherein R and R can each be independently hydrogen alkyl substituted alkyl aryl substituted aryl and aralkyl.

Thus as used herein the term substituted aryl includes aryl groups as defined herein in which one or more atoms or functional groups of the aryl group are replaced with another atom or functional group including for example alkyl substituted alkyl halogen aryl substituted aryl alkoxyl hydroxyl nitro amino alkylamino dialkylamino sulfate and mercapto.

Specific examples of aryl groups include but are not limited to cyclopentadienyl phenyl furan thiophene pyrrole pyran pyridine imidazole benzimidazole isothiazole isoxazole pyrazole pyrazine triazine pyrimidine quinoline isoquinoline indole carbazole and the like.

The term heteroaryl refers to aryl groups wherein at least one atom of the backbone of the aromatic ring or rings is an atom other than carbon. Thus heteroaryl groups have one or more non carbon atoms selected from the group including but not limited to nitrogen oxygen and sulfur.

As used herein the term acyl refers to an organic carboxylic acid group wherein the OH of the carboxyl group has been replaced with another substituent i.e. as represented by RCO wherein R is an alkyl or an aryl group as defined herein . As such the term acyl specifically includes arylacyl groups such as an acetylfuran and a phenacyl group. Specific examples of acyl groups include acetyl and benzoyl.

 Cyclic and cycloalkyl refer to a non aromatic mono or multicyclic ring system of about 3 to about 10 carbon atoms e.g. 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 or 10 carbon atoms. The cycloalkyl group can be optionally partially unsaturated. The cycloalkyl group also can be optionally substituted with an alkyl group substituent as defined herein oxo and or alkylene. There can be optionally inserted along the cyclic alkyl chain one or more oxygen sulfur or substituted or unsubstituted nitrogen atoms wherein the nitrogen substituent is hydrogen alkyl substituted alkyl aryl or substituted aryl thus providing a heterocyclic group. Representative monocyclic cycloalkyl rings include cyclopentyl cyclohexyl and cycloheptyl. Multicyclic cycloalkyl rings include adamantyl octahydronaphthyl decalin camphor camphane and noradamantyl.

The terms heterocycle or heterocyclic refer to cycloalkyl groups i.e. non aromatic cyclic groups as described hereinabove wherein one or more of the backbone carbon atoms of a cyclic ring is replaced by a heteroatom e.g. nitrogen sulfur or oxygen . Examples of heterocycles include but are not limited to tetrahydrofuran tetrahydropyran morpholine dioxane piperidine piperazine and pyrrolidine.

 Alkoxyl or alkoxy refers to an alkyl O group wherein alkyl is as previously described. The term alkoxyl as used herein can refer to for example methoxyl ethoxyl propoxyl isopropoxyl butoxyl t butoxyl and pentoxyl. The term oxyalkyl can be used interchangeably with alkoxyl .

 Aryloxyl or aryloxy refers to an aryl O group wherein the aryl group is as previously described including a substituted aryl. The term aryloxyl as used herein can refer to phenyloxyl or hexyloxyl and alkyl substituted alkyl halo or alkoxyl substituted phenyloxyl or hexyloxyl.

 Aralkyl refers to an aryl alkyl group wherein aryl and alkyl are as previously described and included substituted aryl and substituted alkyl. Exemplary aralkyl groups include benzyl phenylethyl and naphthylmethyl.

 Aralkyloxyl or aralkyloxy refers to an aralkyl O group wherein the aralkyl group is as previously described. An exemplary aralkyloxyl group is benzyloxyl.

The term amino refers to the NR R group wherein R and R are each independently selected from the group including H and substituted and unsubstituted alkyl cycloalkyl heterocycle aralkyl aryl and heteroaryl. In some embodiments the amino group is NH. Aminoalkyl and aminoaryl refer to the NR R group wherein R is as defined hereinabove for amino and R is substituted or unsubstituted alkyl or aryl respectively.

The term carbonyl refers to the C O or a double bonded oxygen substituent attached to a carbon atom of a previously named parent group.

The term oxo refers to a compound described previously herein wherein a carbon atom is replaced by an oxygen atom.

The term thio refers to a compound described previously herein wherein a carbon or oxygen atom is replaced by a sulfur atom.

Tissue specific stem cells and subsets of other resident proliferating cells are capable of self renewal meaning that they are capable of replacing themselves throughout the adult mammalian lifespan through regulated replication. Additionally stem cells divide asymmetrically to produce progeny or progenitor cells that in turn produce various components of a given organ. For example in the hematopoietic system the hematopoietic stem cells give rise to progenitor cells which in turn give rise to all the differentiated components of blood e.g. white blood cells red blood cells lymphocytes and platelets .

The presently disclosed subject matter relates in part to particular biochemical requirements of early hematopoietic stem progenitor cells HSPC and other proliferating cells in the adult mammal. In particular it has been found that certain specific proliferating cells such as HSPC require the enzymatic activity of the proliferative kinases cyclin dependent kinase 4 CDK4 and or cyclin dependent kinase 6 CDK6 for cellular replication. In contrast the vast majority of proliferating cells in adult mammals do not require the activity of CDK4 and or CDK6 i.e. CDK4 6 . These differentiated cells can proliferate in the absence of CDK4 6 activity by using other proliferative kinases such as cyclin dependent kinase 2 CDK2 or cyclin dependent kinase 1 CDK1 . Therefore it is believed that treatment of mammals with a selective CDK4 6 inhibitor can lead to inhibition of proliferation i.e. pharmacologic quiescence in very restricted cellular compartments such as HSPC. For instance transient treatment such as but not limited to over a less than 48 24 20 16 12 10 8 6 4 2 or 1 hour period with PD 0332991 a selective CDK4 6 inhibitor renders hematopoietic stem cells and their associated hematopoietic progenitor cells quiescent. Cells that are quiescent are believed to be more resistant to the cytotoxic effects of DNA damaging agents or events than are proliferating cells.

Accordingly the presently disclosed subject matter provides in some embodiments a methods of protecting mammals from the acute and chronic toxic effects of chemotherapeutic compounds by forcing hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells HSPCs into a quiescent state by transient such as but not limited to over a less than 48 24 20 16 12 10 8 6 4 2 or 1 hour period treatment with an non toxic selective CDK4 6 inhibitor such as but not limited to an orally available non toxic CDK4 6 inhibitor . During the period of quiescence the subject s HSPC are more resistant to certain effects of the chemotherapeutic compound. The HSPCs recover from this period of transient quiescence and then function normally after treatment with the inhibitor is stopped. Thus treatment with selective CDK4 6 inhibitors can provide marked bone marrow protection and can lead to a more rapid recovery of peripheral blood cell counts hematocrit platelets lymphocytes and myeloid cells after chemotherapy and or radiotherapy.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 369 086 to Davis et al. hereinafter the 086 patent appears to describe that selective CDK inhibitors can be useful in limiting the toxicity of cytotoxic agents and can be used to protect from chemotherapy induced alopecia. In particular the 086 patent describes oxindole compounds as specific CDK2 inhibitors. A related journal reference see Davis et al. 291 134 137 2001 appears to describe that the inhibition of CDK2 produces cell cycle arrest reducing the sensitivity of the epithelium to cell cycle active antitumor agents and can prevent chemotherapy induced alopecia. However this journal reference was later retracted due to the irreproducibility of the results. In contrast to these purported protective effects of selective CDK2 inhibitors for which a question is raised by the retraction of the journal article the presently disclosed subject matter relates in some embodiments to protection of HSPCs and protection from hematological toxicity.

The ability to protect stem progenitor cells is desirable both in the treatment of cancer and in mitigating the effects of accidental exposure to or overdose with cytotoxic chemicals radiation or other DNA damaging agents. The protective effects of the selective CDK4 6 inhibitors can be provided to the subject via pretreatment with the inhibitor i.e. prior CDK4 6 inhibitor treatment of a subject scheduled to be treated with or at risk of exposure to a DNA damaging agent concomitant treatment with the CDK4 6 inhibitor and the DNA damaging agent or post treatment with the CDK4 6 inhibitor i.e. treatment with the CDK4 6 inhibitor following exposure to the DNA damaging agent . Thus in some embodiments the presently disclosed methods relates to the use of selective CDK4 6 inhibitory compounds to provide protection to subjects undergoing or about to undergo treatment with chemotherapeutic compounds or radiation and to protect subjects from other exposure to cytotoxic compounds and or radiation.

As used herein the term selective CDK4 6 inhibitor compound refers to a compound that selectively inhibits at least one of CDK4 and CDK6 or whose predominant mode of action is through inhibition of CDK4 and or CDK 6. Thus selective CDK4 6 inhibitors are compounds that generally have a lower 50 inhibitory concentration IC for CDK4 and or CDK6 than for other kinases. In some embodiments the selective CDK4 6 inhibitor can have an ICfor CDK4 or CDK6 that is at least 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 or 10 times lower than the compound s ICs for other CDKs e.g. CDK1 and CDK2 . In some embodiments the selective CDK4 6 inhibitor can have an ICfor CDK4 or CDK6 that is at least 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 or 100 times lower than the compound s ICs for other CDKs. In some embodiments the selective CDK4 6 inhibitor can have an ICthat is more than 100 times or more than 1000 times less than the compound s ICs for other CDKs. In some embodiments the selective CDK4 6 inhibitor compound is a compound that selectively inhibits both CDK4 and CDK6. In some embodiments the CDK4 6 inhibitor is not a naturally occurring compound e.g. an isoflavone . In some embodiments the CDK4 6 inhibitor is a poor inhibitor e.g. 1 M in vitro IC of one or more tyrosine kinases. In some embodiments the CDK4 6 inhibitor is a high potency inhibitor of serine and or theonine kinases. In some embodiments the CDK4 6 inhibitor is a poor CDK1 inhibitor e.g. e.g. 1 M in vitro IC . In some embodiments the CDK4 6 inhibitor is characterized by having a 10 fold or 50 fold or 100 fold or greater relative potency for inhibiting CDK4 or CDK6 as compared to CDK1.

In some embodiments the selective CDK4 6 inhibitor compound is a compound that selectively induces G1 cell cycle arrest in CDK4 6 dependent cells. Thus when treated with the selective CDK4 6 inhibitor compound according to the presently disclosed methods the percentage of CDK4 6 dependent cells in the G1 phase increase while the percentage of CDK4 6 dependent cells in the G2 M phase and S phase decrease. In some embodiments the selective CDK4 6 inhibitor is a compound that induces substantially pure i.e. clean G1 cell cycle arrest in the CDK4 6 dependent cells e.g. wherein treatment with the selective CDK4 6 inhibitor induces cell cycle arrest such that the majority of cells are arrested in G1 as defined by standard methods e.g. propidium iodide staining or others and with the population of cells in the G2 M and S phases combined being 20 15 12 10 8 6 5 4 3 2 1 or less of the total cell population .

While staurosporine a non specific kinase inhibitor has been reported to indirectly induce G1 arrest in some cell types see Chen et al. 92 1999 2008 2000 selective CDK4 6 inhibitors can directly and selectively induce G1 cell cycle arrest in cells such as specific fractions of HSPCs to provide chemoprotection and radioprotection with reduced long term toxicity and without the need for prolonged e.g. 48 hour or longer treatment with the inhibitor prior to exposure with the DNA damaging agent. In particular while some nonselective kinase inhibitors can cause G1 arrest in some cell types by decreasing CDK4 protein levels benefits of the presently disclosed methods are without being bound to any one theory believed to be due at least in part to the ability of selective CDK4 6 inhibitors to directly inhibit the kinase activity of CDK4 6 in HSPCs without decreasing their cellular concentration.

In some embodiments the selective CDK4 6 inhibitor compound is a compound that is substantially free of off target effects particularly related to inhibition of kinases other than CDK4 and or CDK6. In some embodiments the selective CDK4 6 inhibitor compound is a poor inhibitor e.g. 1 M IC of CDKs other than CDK4 6 e.g. CDK 1 and CDK2 . In some embodiments the selective CDK4 6 inhibitor compound does not induce cell cycle arrest in CDK4 6 independent cells. In some embodiments the selective CDK4 6 inhibitor compound is a poor inhibitor e.g. 1 M IC of tyrosine kinases. Additional undesirable off target effects include but are not limited to long term toxicity anti oxidant effects and estrogenic effects.

Anti oxidant effects can be determined by standard assays known in the art. For example a compound with no significant anti oxidant effects is a compound that does not significantly scavenge free radicals such as oxygen radicals. The anti oxidant effects of a compound can be compared to a compound with known anti oxidant activity such as genistein. Thus a compound with no significant anti oxidant activity can be one that has less than about 2 3 5 10 30 or 100 fold anti oxidant activity relative to genistein. Estrogenic activities can also be determined via known assays. For instance a non estrogenic compound is one that does not significantly bind and activate the estrogen receptor. A compound that is substantially free of estrogenic effects can be one that has less than about 2 3 5 10 20 or 100 fold estrogenic activity relative to a compound with estrogenic activity e.g. genistein.

Selective CDK4 6 inhibitors that can be used according to the presently disclosed methods include any known small molecule e.g. 

In some embodiments the pyrido 2 3 d pyrimidine is a pyrido 2 3 d pyrimidinone. In some embodiments the pyrido 2 3 d pyrimidinone is pyrido 2 3 d pyrimidin 7 one. In some embodiments the pyrido 2 3 d pyrimidin 7 one is substituted by an aminoaryl or aminoheteroaryl group. In some embodiments the pyrido 2 3 d pyrimidin 7 one is substituted by an aminopyridine group. In some embodiments the pyrido 2 3 d pyrimidin 7 one is a 2 2 pyridinyl amino pyrido 2 3 d pyrimidin 7 one. For example the pyrido 2 3 d pyrimidin 7 one compound can have a structure of Formula II as described in U.S. Patent Publication No. 2007 0179118 to Barvian et al. herein incorporated by reference in its entirety. In some embodiments the pyrido 2 3 d pyrimidine compound is 6 acetyl 8 cyclopentyl 5 methyl 2 5 piperazin 1 yl pyridin 2 ylamino 8H pyrido 2 3 d pyrimidin 7 one i.e. PD 0332991 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. See Toogood et al. 2005 48 2388 2406.

In some embodiments the pyrido 2 3 d pyrimidinone is a 2 amino 6 cyano pyrido 2 3 d pyrimidin 4 ones. Selective CDK4 6 inhibitors comprising a 2 amino 6 cyano pyrido 2 3 d pyrimidin 4 one are described for example by Tu et al. See Tu et al. 2006 16 3578 3581.

As used herein triaminopyrimidines are pyrimidine compounds wherein at least three carbons in the pyrimidine ring are substituted by groups having the formula NRR wherein Rand Rare independently selected from the group consisting of H alkyl aralkyl cycloalkyl heterocycle aryl and heteroaryl. Each Rand Ralkyl aralkyl cycloalkyl heterocycle aryl and heteroaryl groups can further be substituted by one or more hydroxyl halo amino alkyl aralkyl cycloalkyl heterocyclic aryl or heteroaryl groups. In some embodiments at least one of the amino groups is an alkylamino group having the structure NHR wherein R is C Calkyl. In some embodiments at least one amino group is a cycloalkylamino group or a hydroxyl substituted cycloalkylamino group having the formula NHR wherein R is C Ccycloalkyl substituted or unsubstituted by a hydroxyl group. In some embodiments at least one amino group is a heteroaryl substituted aminoalkyl group wherein the heteroaryl group can be further substituted with an aryl group substituent.

Aryl a pyrrolo 3 4 d carbazoles include but are not limited to napthyl a pyrrolo 3 4 c carbazoles indolo a pyrrolo 3 4 c carbazoles quinolinyl a pyrrolo 3 4 c carbazoles and isoquinolinyl a pyrrolo 3 4 c carbazoles. See e.g. Engler et al. 2003 13 2261 2267 Sanchez Martinez et al. 2003 13 3835 3839 Sanchez Martinez et al. 2003 13 3841 3846 Zhu et al. 2003 13 1231 1235 and Zhu et al. 2003 46 2027 2030. Suitable aryl a pyrrolo 3 4 d carbazoles are also disclosed in U.S. Patent Publication Nos. 2003 0229026 and 2004 0048915.

Nitrogen containing heteroaryl substituted ureas are compounds comprising a urea moiety wherein one of the urea nitrogen atoms is substituted by a nitrogen containing heteroaryl group. Nitrogen containing heteroaryl groups include but are not limited to five to ten membered aryl groups including at least one nitrogen atom. Thus nitrogen containing heteroaryl groups include for example pyridine pyrrole indole carbazole imidazole thiazole isoxazole pyrazole isothiazole pyrazine triazole tetrazole pyrimidine pyridazine purine quinoline isoquinoline quinoxaline cinnoline quinazoline benzimidazole phthalimide and the like. In some embodiments the nitrogen containing heteroaryl group can be substituted by one or more alkyl cycloalkyl heterocyclic aralkyl aryl heteroaryl hydroxyl halo carbonyl carboxyl nitro cyano alkoxyl or amino group. In some embodiments the nitrogen containing heteroaryl substituted urea is a pyrazole 3 yl urea. The pyrazole can be further substituted by a cycloalkyl or heterocyclic group. In some embodiments the pyrazol 3 yl urea is 

Suitable 5 pyrimidinyl 2 aminothiazole CDK4 6 inhibitors are described by Shimamura et al. See Shimamura et al. 2006 16 3751 3754. In some embodiments the 5 pyrimidinyl 2 aminothiazole has the structure 

Useful benzothiadiazine and acridinethiones compounds include those for example disclosed by Kubo et al. See Kubo et al. 1999 5 4279 4286 and in U.S. Patent Publication No. 2004 0006074 herein incorporated by reference in their entirety. In some embodiments the benzothiadiazine is substituted by one or more halo haloaryl or alkyl group. In some embodiments the benzothiadiazine is selected from the group consisting of 4 4 fluorobenzylamino 1 2 3 benzothiadiazine 1 1 dioxide 3 chloro 4 methyl 4H benzo e 1 2 4 thiadiazine 1 1 dioxide and 3 chloro 4 ethyl 4H benzo e 1 2 4 thiadiazine 1 1 dioxide. In some embodiments the acridinethione is substituted by one or more amino or alkoxy group. In some embodiments the acridinethione is selected from the group consisting of 3 amino 10H acridone 9 thione 3ATA 9 10H acridinethione 1 4 dimethoxy 10H acridine 9 thione and 2 2 diphenyldiamine bis N N 3 amido N methylamino 10H acridine 9 thione .

In some embodiments the subject of the presently disclosed methods will be a subject who has been exposed to is being exposed to or is scheduled to be exposed to a DNA damaging agent while undergoing therapeutic treatment for a proliferative disorder. Such disorders include cancerous and non cancer proliferative diseases. For example the presently disclosed compounds are believed effective in protecting healthy HSPCs during chemotherapeutic treatment of a broad range of tumor types including but not limited to the following breast prostate ovarian skin lung colorectal brain i.e. glioma and renal.

Ideally it is preferable that the selective CDK4 6 inhibitor not compromise the efficacy of the DNA damaging agent by itself arresting the growth of the cancer cells. Most cancers appear not to depend on the activities of CDK4 6 for proliferation as they can use the proliferative kinases promiscuously e.g. can use CDK 1 2 4 or 6 or lack the function of the retinoblastoma tumor suppressor protein RB which is inactivated by the CDKs. Therefore isolated inhibition of CDK4 6 should not adversely affect the DNA damaging agent response in the majority of cancers. As would be understood by one of skill in the art upon a review of the instant disclosure the potential sensitivity of certain tumors to CDK4 6 inhibition can be deduced based on tumor type and molecular genetics. Cancers that are not expected to be affected by the inhibition of CDK4 6 are those that can be characterized by one or more of the group including but not limited to increased activity of CDK1 or CDK2 loss or absence of retinoblastoma tumor suppressor protein RB high levels of MYC expression increased cyclin E e.g. E1 or E2 and increased cyclin A or expression of a RB inactivating protein such as HPV encoded E7 . Such cancers can include but are not limited to small cell lung cancer retinoblastoma HPV positive malignancies like cervical cancer and certain head and neck cancers MYC amplified tumors such as Burkitts Lymphoma and triple negative breast cancer certain classes of sarcoma certain classes of non small cell lung carcinoma certain classes of melanoma certain classes of pancreatic cancer certain classes of leukemia certain classes of lymphoma certain classes of brain cancer certain classes of colon cancer certain classes of prostate cancer certain classes of ovarian cancer certain classes of uterine cancer certain classes of thyroid and other endocrine tissue cancers certain classes of salivary cancers certain classes of thymic carcinomas certain classes of kidney cancers certain classes of bladder cancer and certain classes of testicular cancers.

For example in some embodiments the cancer is selected from a small cell lung cancer retinoblastoma and triple negative ER PR Her2 negative or basal like breast cancer. Small cell lung cancer and retinoblastoma almost always inactivate the retinoblastoma tumor suppressor protein RB and therefore does not require CDK4 6 activity to proliferate. Thus CDK4 6 inhibitor treatment will effect pharmacologic quiescence in the bone marrow and other normal host cells but not in the tumor. Triple negative basal like breast cancer is also almost always genetically or functionally RB null. Also certain virally induced cancers e.g. cervical cancer and subsets of Head and Neck cancer express a viral protein E7 which inactivates RB making these tumors functionally RB null. Some lung cancers are also believed to be caused by HPV. As would be understood by one of skill in the art cancers that are not expected to be affected by CDK4 6 inhibitors e.g. those that are RB null that express viral protein E7 or that overexpress MYC can be determined through methods including but not limited to DNA analysis immunostaining Western blot analysis and gene expression profiling.

Selective CDK4 6 inhibitors can also be used in protecting healthy HSPCs during DNA damaging agent treatments of abnormal tissues in non cancer proliferative diseases including but not limited to the following hemangiomatosis in infants secondary progressive multiple sclerosis chronic progressive myelodegenerative disease neurofibromatosis ganglioneuromatosis keloid formation Paget s Disease of the bone fibrocystic disease of the breast Peronies and Duputren s fibrosis restenosis and cirrhosis. Further selective CDK4 6 inhibitors can be used to ameliorate the effects of DNA damaging agents in the event of accidental exposure or overdose e.g. methotrexate overdose . Thus the presently disclosed methods can be used to protect chemical and nuclear plant workers scientific researchers and emergency responders from occupational exposure for example in the event of a chemical spill or radiation leak.

According to the presently disclosed subject matter the DNA damaging agent can be administered to a subject on any schedule and in any dose consistent with the prescribed course of treatment as long as the selective CDK4 6 inhibitor compound is administered prior to during or following the administration of the DNA damaging agent. Generally selective CDK4 6 inhibitor compound can be administered to the subject during the time period ranging from 24 hours prior to exposure with the DNA damaging agent until 24 hours following exposure. However this time period can be extended to time earlier that 24 hour prior to exposure to the DNA damaging agent e.g. based upon the time it takes the any DNA damaging chemical compound used to achieve suitable plasma concentrations and or the DNA damaging compound s plasma half life . Further the time period can be extended longer than 24 hours following exposure to the DNA damaging agent so long as later administration of the CDK4 6 inhibitor leads to at least some protective effect. Such post exposure treatment can be especially useful in cases of accidental exposure or overdose.

In some embodiments the selective CDK4 6 inhibitor can be administered to the subject at a time period prior to the administration of the DNA damaging agent so that plasma levels of the selective CDK4 6 inhibitor are peaking at the time of administration of the DNA damaging agent. If convenient the selective CDK4 6 inhibitor can be administered at the same time as the DNA damaging agent in order to simplify the treatment regimen. In some embodiments the chemoprotectant and DNA damaging agent s can be provided in a single formulation.

If desired multiple doses of the selective CDK4 6 inhibitor compound can be administered to the subject. Alternatively the subject can be given a single dose of the selective CDK4 6 inhibitor.

In some embodiments selective CDK4 6 inhibitors can be used together with other compounds or treatments to reduce undesirable effects of DNA damaging agents or events. For example in some embodiments the presently disclosed subject matter relates to methods of increasing the efficacy of a toxicity reducing agent in a subject in need of treatment thereof the method comprising providing a subject that has been exposed to is being exposed to or is at risk of being exposed to a DNA damaging agent or event administering to said subject a toxicity reducing agent and administering to said subject a pharmaceutically effective amount of a compound that selectively inhibits CDK4 and or CDK6.

The toxicity reducing agent can be any known toxicity reducing agent. Ideally the toxicity reducing agent is free of selective CDK4 6 inhibitory activity.

In some embodiments the toxicity reducing agent is an agent that is being used to or is known to have the ability to reduce undesirable cytotoxicity side effects related to the use of or exposure to a chemotherapeutic. In some embodiments the toxicity reducing agent is an agent that is being used to or is known to have the ability to reduce undesirable toxicity side effects related to the use of or exposure to radiation. Thus in some embodiments the toxicity reducing agent is a chemoprotectant or a radioprotectant.

In some embodiments the toxicity reducing agent is an agent being used so that a higher dose of a chemotherapuetic or of radiation can be tolerated by a subject being treated for cancer or another proliferative disease. In some embodiments the toxicity reducing agent is being used so that a subject being treated for cancer of another proliferative disease can be treated with a chemotherapeutic or radiation more frequently. In some embodiments the toxicity reducing agent is used to reduce or prevent side effects associated with the use of the DNA damaging agent such as but not limited to nausea vomiting hair loss anemia fatigue peripheral neuropathy bleeding problems diarrhea constipation and the like.

In some embodiments the toxicity reducing agent is a growth factor or other naturally occurring compound or a derivative thereof. In some embodiments the toxicity reducing agent is selected from the group comprising but not limited to growth factors a granulocyte colony stimulating factor G CSF a pegylated G CSF granulocyte macrophage colony stimulating factor GM CSF thrombopoietin erythropoietin EPO pegylated erythropoietin interleukin IL 12 steel factor a keratinocyte growth factor or to derivatives e.g. chemically modified compounds having structures based upon one of the foregoing named toxicity reducing agents such as alkylated or esterified derivatives or combinations thereof.

In some embodiments the use of the toxicity reducing agent and the selective CDK4 6 inhibitor can result in synergistic protective effects from the DNA damaging agent or event. In some embodiments the compound that selectively inhibits CDK4 and or CDK6 induces pharmacologic quiescence in one or more cells within the subject. For example transient treatment e.g. over a period of about 48 hours or less with the compound that selectively inhibits CDK4 and or CDK6 can temporarily induce pharmacologic quiescence in one or more cells within the subject. In some embodiments the one or more cells that are induced in to pharmacologic quiescence are for example hematologic cells hematologic stem cells and or hematologic precursor cells. Thus in some embodiments a growth factor and a selective CDK4 6 inhibitor compound can be used in a method to provide synergistic effects in the rescue and support of various hematopoietic populations from a DNA damaging agent or event.

In some embodiments the selective CDK4 6 inhibitor and the toxicity reducing agent can be used in combination to rescue and support various non hematologic tissues from a DNA damaging agent or event such as ionizing radiation or a chemotherapeutic. The non hematologic tissues can include but are not limited to cells or tissue from the kidney gut heart liver brain thyroid skin intestinal mucosa auditory system lung bladder ovaries uterus testicles adrenals gallbladder pancreas pancreatic islets stomach blood vessels bone and combinations thereof.

The toxicity reducing agent and the compound that selectively inhibits CDK4 and or CDK6 can be administered together e.g. in the same formulation or at the same time in separate formulations or at different times. Either or both of the toxicity reducing agent and the CDK4 6 inhibitor can be given as a single dose or in multiple doses. In some embodiments either the CDK4 6 inhibitor or the toxicity reducing agent can be administered prior to the exposure to the DNA damaging agent or event while the other of the CDK4 6 inhibitor and the toxicity reducing agent can be administer during or after exposure to the DNA damaging agent or event. In some embodiments both the CDK4 6 inhibitor and the toxicity reducing agent can be administered during exposure to the DNA damaging agent e.g. during administration of chemo or radiotherapy . Alternatively both can be administered prior to or after exposure to the DNA damaging agent. In some embodiments the compound that selectively inhibits CDK4 and or CDK6 is administered to the subject between about 24 and about 48 hours e.g. about 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 40 41 42 43 44 45 46 or 48 hours after exposure of the subject to the DNA damaging agent or event.

In some embodiments the presently disclosed subject matter is related to the ability of selective CDK4 6 inhibitors to protect non hematologic cells or tissues from DNA damaging agents or events. Thus in some embodiments the presently disclosed subject matter provides a method of mitigating DNA damage in a non hematologic cell or tissue in a subject in need of treatment thereof prior to or following exposure of the cell or tissue to a DNA damaging agent or event wherein the method comprises administering to the subject a pharmaceutically effective amount of a compound that selectively inhibits CDK4 6.

In some embodiments the non hematologic cell or tissue is comprises a cell or tissue from the group including but not limited to cells or tissue from the kidney gut heart liver brain thyroid skin intestinal mucosa auditory system lung bladder ovaries uterus testicles adrenals gallbladder pancreas pancreatic islets stomach blood vessels bone and combinations thereof. In some embodiments the DNA damaging agent is a chemotherapeutic agent such as but not limited to kanamycin ifosfamide camptothecin cyclophosphamide L asparaginase doxorubicin daunorubicin methotrexante irinotecan cisplatin streptozotocin 6 mercaptipurine bleomycin busulphan vincristine and combinations thereof. Thus for example the presently disclosed methods can relate to the use of CDK4 6 inhibitors to protect the kidney cells from chemotherapy induced epithelial cell damage.

Selective CDK4 6 inhibition appears to have different effects on primary and memory immune responses. In some embodiments the presently disclosed subject matter is related to the finding that selective CDK4 6 inhibitors preferentially reduce memory T cell proliferation as compared to naive T cell proliferation. Thus in some embodiments the presently disclosed subject matter provides a method of reducing or inhibiting memory T cell proliferation in a subject in need of treatment thereof wherein the method comprises administering to the subject a pharmaceutically effective amount of a compound that selectively inhibits CDK4 6.

In some embodiments the subject has or is at risk of developing an autoimmune or allergic disease such as but not limited to systemic lupus erythematosus SLE rheumatoid arthritis RA autoimmune arthritis scleroderma hemolytic anemia autoimmune aplastic anemia autoimmune granulocytopenia type I diabetes thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura TTP psoriasis inflammatory bowel disease Crohn s disease ulcerative colitis contact dermatitis polymyalgia rheumatica uveitis immune pneumonitis autoimmune hepatitis immune nephritis immune glomerulonephritis multiple sclerosis autoimmune neuropathy vitiligo discoid lupus Wegener s Granulomatosis Henoch Schoelein Purpura sclerosing chloangitis autoimmune thyroiditis autoimmune myocarditis autoimmune vasculitis dermatomyositis extrinsic and intrinsic reactive airways disease asthma myasthenia gravis autoimmune ovarian failure pernicious anemia Addison s disease autoimmune hypoparathyroidism or other syndromes of an inappropriate cellular immune response. The subject can also have or be at risk of developing another condition related to undesirable memory T cell proliferation.

Selective CDK4 6 inhibitors can also suppress germinal center formation a process involved in the generation of memory B cells. Thus in some embodiments the presently disclosed subject matter provides a method of reducing or inhibiting B cell progenitor proliferation in a subject in need of treatment thereof the method comprising administering to the subject a pharmaceutically effective amount of a compound that selectively inhibits CDK4 6. In some embodiments the subject can have or be at risk of developing an autoimmune or allergic disease or another condition related to undesirable B cell proliferation. In some embodiments the autoimmune or allergic disease can be for example such as but not limited to SLE RA scleroderma hemolytic anemia ITP acquired inhibitors in hemophilia TTP Goodpasture s syndrome cold and warm agglutin diseases cryoglobulinemia or a syndrome of inappropriate antibody production.

In some embodiments the presently disclosed subject matter provides a method of mitigating an autoimmune or allergic disease in a subject in need of treatment thereof the method comprising administering to the subject a pharmaceutically effective amount of a compound that selectively inhibits CDK4 6 wherein said compound reduces or inhibits memory T cell proliferation B cell progenitor proliferation or both memory T cell proliferation and B cell progenitor proliferation. In some embodiments the autoimmune disease is selected from the group including but not limited to SLE RA autoimmune arthritis scleroderma hemolytic anemia autoimmune aplastic anemia autoimmune granulocytopenia type I diabetes TTP psoriasis inflammatory bowel disease Crohn s disease ulcerative colitis contact dermatitis polymyalgia rheumatica uveitis immune pneumonitis autoimmune hepatitis immune nephritis immune glomerulonephritis multiple sclerosis autoimmune neuropathy vitiligo discoid lupus Wegener s Granulomatosis Henoch Schoelein Purpura sclerosing cholangitis autoimmune thyroiditis autoimmune myocarditis autoimmune vasculitis dermatomyositis extrinsic and intrinsic reactive airways disease asthma myasthenia gravis autoimmune ovarian failure pernicious anemia Addison s disease autoimmune hypoparathyroidism other syndromes of an inappropriate cellular immune response Goodpasture s syndrome cold and warm agglutin diseases cryoglobulinemia or a syndrome of inappropriate antibody production.

In some embodiments the selective CDK4 6 inhibitor can be used in a method of treating cancer characterized by an increased level of CDK2 activity or by reduced expression of retinoblastoma tumor suppressor protein or a retinoblastoma family member protein or proteins such as but not limited to p107 and p130 the method comprising administering to the subject a pharmaceutically effective amount of a compound that selectively inhibits CDK4 and or CDK6. In some embodiments the increased level of CDK2 activity is associated with MYC protooncogene amplification or overexpression and or the overexpression of Cylcin E1 E2 or Cylin A. The selective CDK4 6 inhibitor is not believed to induce pharmacologic quiescence in cancer cells in these types of cancers. However the presently disclosed subject matter is related to the belief that selective CDK4 6 inhibitors can increase the sensitivity of cancer cells of certain types of cancers to DNA damaging agents such as chemotherapeutic compounds and ionizing radiation. Thus in some embodiments the use of selective CDK4 6 inhibitors can increase the sensitivity of certain types of cancer cells to damage by DNA damaging agents such as chemotherapeutic compounds or IR thereby increasing cancer cell death in comparison to when the DNA damaging agent is used in the absence of administration of the selective CDK4 6 inhibitor. Thus in some embodiments a combination of treatment with a DNA damaging agent and a CKD4 6 inhibitor compound can provide a greater reduction in tumor burden than treatment with the DNA damaging agent alone. In some embodiments administration of the compound that selectively inhibits CDK4 and or CDK6 can mitigate hematologic toxicity associated with exposure to a DNA damaging agent or event such as a chemotherapeutic compound or IR. In some embodiments the hematologic toxicity is a long term toxicity such as but not limited to myelodysplasia. The administration of the selective CDK4 6 inhibitor compound can also protect against other long term toxicities associated with exposure to the DNA damaging agent or event including both hematologic and non hematologic toxicities such as hematologic and non hematologic secondary malignancies.

The compound that selectively inhibits CDK4 6 can be administered at any suitable time prior to during or after exposure of the subject to the DNA damaging agent or event. In some embodiments the selective CDK4 6 inhibitor is administered to the subject between about 24 and about 48 hours e.g. about 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 40 41 42 43 44 45 46 47 or 48 hours after exposure of the subject to the DNA damaging agent or event.

Subjects who have been treated for cancer using radiation or chemotherapy have been found to have a higher risk of developing further cancers i.e. secondary malignancies such as cancers that have spread from the original location or new cancers even when the original cancer treatment successfully eliminates or otherwise treats e.g. by the reduction of tumor burden the original i.e. primary cancer. The secondary malignancy can be for example leukemia or another hematologic or non hematologic cancer. These secondary malignancies can sometimes occur several years e.g. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 15 20 25 30 or more years after the original cancer has been treated and can be related to long term toxicities of the original cancer treatment.

In some embodiments the presently disclosed subject matter provides a method of mitigating chemotherapy induced or radiation induced secondary malignancies of hematological or non hematological origin in a subject. In some embodiments the method can comprise administering to the subject a pharmacologically effective amount of a compound that selectively inhibits CDK4 6. In some embodiments the compound that selectively inhibits CDK4 and or CDK6 is administered to the subject prior to or during the same time period that the subject is undergoing chemotherapy or radiation based therapy to treat a primary malignancy.

As used herein the term active compound refers to a selective CDK 4 6 inhibitor compound or a prodrug such as but not limited to various esters and other derivatives that can form the selective CDK4 6 inhibitor in vitro or in vivo solvate such as but not limited to a hydrate and or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. The active compound can be administered to the subject through any suitable approach. The amount and timing of active compound administered can of course be dependent on the subject being treated on the dosage of DNA damaging agent to which the subject has been is being or is anticipated of being exposed to on the manner of administration on the pharmacokinetic properties of the active compound and on the judgment of the prescribing physician. Thus because of subject to subject variability the dosages given below are a guideline and the physician can titrate doses of the compound to achieve the treatment that the physician considers appropriate for the subject. In considering the degree of treatment desired the physician can balance a variety of factors such as age and weight of the subject presence of preexisting disease as well as presence of other diseases. Pharmaceutical formulations can be prepared for any desired route of administration including but not limited to oral intravenous or aerosol administration as discussed in greater detail below.

The therapeutically effective dosage of any specific active compound the use of which is within the scope of embodiments described herein can vary somewhat from compound to compound and subject to subject and can depend upon the condition of the subject and the route of delivery. As a general proposition a dosage from about 0.1 to about 200 mg kg can have therapeutic efficacy with all weights being calculated based upon the weight of the active compound including the cases where a salt is employed. In some embodiments the dosage can be the amount of compound needed to provide a serum concentration of the active compound of up to between about 1 5 M or higher. Toxicity concerns at the higher level can restrict intravenous dosages to a lower level such as up to about 10 mg kg with all weights being calculated based on the weight of the active base including the cases where a salt is employed. A dosage from about 10 mg kg to about 50 mg kg can be employed for oral administration. Typically a dosage from about 0.5 mg kg to 5 mg kg can be employed for intramuscular injection. In some embodiments dosages can be from about 1 mol kg to about 50 mol kg or optionally between about 22 mol kg and about 33 mol kg of the compound for intravenous or oral administration.

In accordance with the presently disclosed methods pharmaceutically active compounds as described herein can be administered orally as a solid or as a liquid or can be administered intramuscularly intravenously or by inhalation as a solution suspension or emulsion. In some embodiments the compounds or salts also can be administered by inhalation intravenously or intramuscularly as a liposomal suspension. When administered through inhalation the active compound or salt can be in the form of a plurality of solid particles or droplets having a particle size from about 0.5 to about 5 microns and optionally from about 1 to about 2 microns.

The pharmaceutical formulations can comprise an active compound described herein or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof in any pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. If a solution is desired water is the carrier of choice with respect to water soluble compounds or salts. With respect to the water soluble compounds or salts an organic vehicle such as glycerol propylene glycol polyethylene glycol or mixtures thereof can be suitable. In the latter instance the organic vehicle can contain a substantial amount of water. The solution in either instance can then be sterilized in a suitable manner known to those in the art and typically by filtration through a 0.22 micron filter. Subsequent to sterilization the solution can be dispensed into appropriate receptacles such as depyrogenated glass vials. The dispensing is optionally done by an aseptic method. Sterilized closures can then be placed on the vials and if desired the vial contents can be lyophilized.

In addition to the active compounds or their salts the pharmaceutical formulations can contain other additives such as pH adjusting additives. In particular useful pH adjusting agents include acids such as hydrochloric acid bases or buffers such as sodium lactate sodium acetate sodium phosphate sodium citrate sodium borate or sodium gluconate. Further the formulations can contain antimicrobial preservatives. Useful antimicrobial preservatives include methylparaben propylparaben and benzyl alcohol. An antimicrobial preservative is typically employed when the formulation is placed in a vial designed for multi dose use. The pharmaceutical formulations described herein can be lyophilized using techniques well known in the art.

For oral administration a pharmaceutical composition can take the form of solutions suspensions tablets pills capsules powders and the like. Tablets containing various excipients such as sodium citrate calcium carbonate and calcium phosphate are employed along with various disintegrants such as starch e.g. potato or tapioca starch and certain complex silicates together with binding agents such as polyvinylpyrrolidone sucrose gelatin and acacia. Additionally lubricating agents such as magnesium stearate sodium lauryl sulfate and talc are often very useful for tabletting purposes. Solid compositions of a similar type are also employed as fillers in soft and hard filled gelatin capsules. Materials in this connection also include lactose or milk sugar as well as high molecular weight polyethylene glycols. When aqueous suspensions and or elixirs are desired for oral administration the compounds of the presently disclosed subject matter can be combined with various sweetening agents flavoring agents coloring agents emulsifying agents and or suspending agents as well as such diluents as water ethanol propylene glycol glycerin and various like combinations thereof.

In yet another embodiment of the subject matter described herein there is provided an injectable stable sterile formulation comprising an active compound as described herein or a salt thereof in a unit dosage form in a sealed container. The compound or salt is provided in the form of a lyophilizate which is capable of being reconstituted with a suitable pharmaceutically acceptable carrier to form a liquid formulation suitable for injection thereof into a subject. When the compound or salt is substantially water insoluble a sufficient amount of emulsifying agent which is physiologically acceptable can be employed in sufficient quantity to emulsify the compound or salt in an aqueous carrier. Particularly useful emulsifying agents include phosphatidyl cholines and lecithin.

Additional embodiments provided herein include liposomal formulations of the active compounds disclosed herein. The technology for forming liposomal suspensions is well known in the art. When the compound is an aqueous soluble salt using conventional liposome technology the same can be incorporated into lipid vesicles. In such an instance due to the water solubility of the active compound the active compound can be substantially entrained within the hydrophilic center or core of the liposomes. The lipid layer employed can be of any conventional composition and can either contain cholesterol or can be cholesterol free. When the active compound of interest is water insoluble again employing conventional liposome formation technology the salt can be substantially entrained within the hydrophobic lipid bilayer that forms the structure of the liposome. In either instance the liposomes that are produced can be reduced in size as through the use of standard sonication and homogenization techniques. The liposomal formulations comprising the active compounds disclosed herein can be lyophilized to produce a lyophilizate which can be reconstituted with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier such as water to regenerate a liposomal suspension.

Pharmaceutical formulations also are provided which are suitable for administration as an aerosol by inhalation. These formulations comprise a solution or suspension of a desired compound described herein or a salt thereof or a plurality of solid particles of the compound or salt. The desired formulation can be placed in a small chamber and nebulized. Nebulization can be accomplished by compressed air or by ultrasonic energy to form a plurality of liquid droplets or solid particles comprising the compounds or salts. The liquid droplets or solid particles should have a particle size in the range of about 0.5 to about 10 microns and optionally from about 0.5 to about 5 microns. The solid particles can be obtained by processing the solid compound or a salt thereof in any appropriate manner known in the art such as by micronization. Optionally the size of the solid particles or droplets can be from about 1 to about 2 microns. In this respect commercial nebulizers are available to achieve this purpose. The compounds can be administered via an aerosol suspension of respirable particles in a manner set forth in U.S. Pat. No. 5 628 984 the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

When the pharmaceutical formulation suitable for administration as an aerosol is in the form of a liquid the formulation can comprise a water soluble active compound in a carrier that comprises water. A surfactant can be present which lowers the surface tension of the formulation sufficiently to result in the formation of droplets within the desired size range when subjected to nebulization.

As indicated both water soluble and water insoluble active compounds are provided. As used herein the term water soluble is meant to define any composition that is soluble in water in an amount of about 50 mg mL or greater. Also as used herein the term water insoluble is meant to define any composition that has a solubility in water of less than about 20 mg mL. In some embodiments water soluble compounds or salts can be desirable whereas in other embodiments water insoluble compounds or salts likewise can be desirable.

The term pharmaceutically acceptable salts as used herein refers to those salts which are within the scope of sound medical judgment suitable for use in contact with subjects e.g. human subjects without undue toxicity irritation allergic response and the like commensurate with a reasonable benefit risk ratio and effective for their intended use as well as the zwitterionic forms where possible of the compounds of the presently disclosed subject matter.

Thus the term salts refers to the relatively non toxic inorganic and organic acid addition salts of compounds of the presently disclosed subject matter. These salts can be prepared in situ during the final isolation and purification of the compounds or by separately reacting the purified compound in its free base form with a suitable organic or inorganic acid and isolating the salt thus formed. In so far as the compounds of the presently disclosed subject matter are basic compounds they are all capable of forming a wide variety of different salts with various inorganic and organic acids. Although such salts must be pharmaceutically acceptable for administration to animals it is often desirable in practice to initially isolate the base compound from the reaction mixture as a pharmaceutically unacceptable salt and then simply convert to the free base compound by treatment with an alkaline reagent and thereafter convert the free base to a pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salt. The acid addition salts of the basic compounds are prepared by contacting the free base form with a sufficient amount of the desired acid to produce the salt in the conventional manner. The free base form can be regenerated by contacting the salt form with a base and isolating the free base in the conventional manner. The free base forms differ from their respective salt forms somewhat in certain physical properties such as solubility in polar solvents but otherwise the salts are equivalent to their respective free base for purposes of the presently disclosed subject matter.

Pharmaceutically acceptable base addition salts are formed with metals or amines such as alkali and alkaline earth metal hydroxides or of organic amines. Examples of metals used as cations include but are not limited to sodium potassium magnesium calcium and the like. Examples of suitable amines include but are not limited to N N dibenzylethylenediamine chloroprocaine choline diethanolamine ethylenediamine N methylglucamine and procaine.

The base addition salts of acidic compounds are prepared by contacting the free acid form with a sufficient amount of the desired base to produce the salt in the conventional manner. The free acid form can be regenerated by contacting the salt form with an acid and isolating the free acid in a conventional manner. The free acid forms differ from their respective salt forms somewhat in certain physical properties such as solubility in polar solvents but otherwise the salts are equivalent to their respective free acid for purposes of the presently disclosed subject matter.

Salts can be prepared from inorganic acids sulfate pyrosulfate bisulfate sulfite bisulfite nitrate phosphate monohydrogenphosphate dihydrogenphosphate metaphosphate pyrophosphate chloride bromide iodide such as hydrochloric nitric phosphoric sulfuric hydrobromic hydriodic phosphorus and the like. Representative salts include the hydrobromide hydrochloride sulfate bisulfate nitrate acetate oxalate valerate oleate palmitate stearate laurate borate benzoate lactate phosphate tosylate citrate maleate fumarate succinate tartrate naphthylate mesylate glucoheptonate lactobionate laurylsulphonate and isethionate salts and the like. Salts can also be prepared from organic acids such as aliphatic mono and dicarboxylic acids phenyl substituted alkanoic acids hydroxy alkanoic acids alkanedioic acids aromatic acids aliphatic and aromatic sulfonic acids etc. and the like. Representative salts include acetate propionate caprylate isobutyrate oxalate malonate succinate suberate sebacate fumarate maleate mandelate benzoate chlorobenzoate methylbenzoate dinitrobenzoate phthalate benzenesulfonate toluenesulfonate phenylacetate citrate lactate maleate tartrate methanesulfonate and the like. Pharmaceutically acceptable salts can include cations based on the alkali and alkaline earth metals such as sodium lithium potassium calcium magnesium and the like as well as non toxic ammonium quaternary ammonium and amine cations including but not limited to ammonium tetramethylammonium tetraethylammonium methylamine dimethylamine trimethylamine triethylamine ethylamine and the like. Also contemplated are the salts of amino acids such as arginate gluconate galacturonate and the like. See for example Berge et al. 1977 66 1 19 which is incorporated herein by reference.

The following Examples provide illustrative embodiments and are not intended to limit the scope of the presently disclosed subject matter in any way. In light of the present disclosure and the general level of skill in the art those of skill can appreciate that the following Examples are intended to be exemplary only and that numerous changes modifications and alterations can be employed without departing from the scope of the presently disclosed subject matter.

The practice of the presently disclosed subject matter can employ unless otherwise indicated conventional methods of protein chemistry biochemistry recombinant DNA techniques and pharmacology within the skill of the art. Such techniques are explained fully in the literature. See e.g. T. E. Creighton W.H. Freeman and Company 1993 A. L. Lehninger Worth Publishers Inc. current edition Sambrook et al. 2Edition 1989 S. Colowick and N. Kaplan eds. Academic Press Inc. 18Edition Easton Pa. Mack Publishing Company 1990 Carey and Sundberg 3Ed. Plenum Press Vols A and B 1992 .

PD was synthesized as shown above in Scheme 1. Reactions shown in Scheme 1 generally followed previously reported procedures see VandelWel et al. 48 2371 2387 2005 and Toogood et al. 48 2388 2406 2005 with the exceptions of the reaction converting compound D to compound E and the reaction converting compound F to compound G.

Compound D 40 g 169 mmol was dissolved in anhydrous THF 800 mL under nitrogen and the solution was cooled in ice bath to which MeMgBr was added slowly 160 mL 480 mmol 3 M in ether and stirred for 1 h. The reaction was quenched with saturated aqueous NHCl the partitioned between water and EtOAc. The organic layer was separated and the aqueous layer was extracted with EtOAc. The combined organic were washed with brine and dried over MgSO. Concentration gave an intermediate product as an oil 41.9 g 98 .

The above intermediate 40 g 158 mmol was dissolved in dry CHCl 700 mL . MnO 96 g 1.11 mol was added and the mixture was heated to reflux with stirring for 18 h and another MnO 34 g 395 mmol was added and continue to reflux for 4 h. The solid was filtrated through a Celite pad and washed with CHCl. The filtrate was concentrated to give a yellow solid compound E 35 g 88 Mp 75.8 76.6 C.

Compound F 5 g 18.2 mmol was dissolved in anhydrous DMF 150 mL and NBS 11.3 g 63.6 mmol was added. The reaction mixture was stirred at r.t. for 3.5 h and then poured into HO 500 mL the precipitate was filtered and washed with HO. The solid recrystallized from EtOH to give compound G as a white solid 5.42 g 80.7 mp 210.6 211.3 C.

Primary normal human renal proximal epithelial cells American Type Culture Collection ATCC Manassas Va. United States of America were cultured in renal epithelial cell basal media supplemented with renal epithelial cell growth kit according to the manufacturer s recommendations. Cell cycle analysis was performed using BrdU BD Biosciences Pharmingen San Diego Calif. or EdU Invitrogen Corporation Carlsbad Calif. United States of America and propidium iodide following the manufacturer s protocols. For the H2AX assay cells were fixed permeabilized and stained with anti H2AX as per H2AX Flow Kit Millipore Billerica Mass. United States of America . H2AX levels were assessed by flow cytometry. Cell proliferation was assessed by seeding 1 10cells per well in a 96 well tissue culture plate in 100 L of growth medium. Cells were treated as indicated with Cdk4 6 inhibitors and etoposide. Following treatment cells were allowed to recover for 7 days in normal growth medium. At the end of the recovery period cell number was quantified using CellTiter Glo Promega Fitchburg Wis. United States of America or WST 1 reagent TaKaRa Bio USA Madison Wis. United States of America . Cellular cytotoxicity was assessed using the TOXILIGHT Bioassay kit Lonza Basel Switzerland which measures cytolysis by quantifying the release of Adenylate Kinase into the culture media. Briefly 20 L was aspirated from each well of 96 well plates of cells treated with varying concentrations of PD0332991. 100 L of TOXILIGHT reagent is added and incubated for 5 minutes and read in a luminometer at 1 second well.

All animal experiments were performed in accord with the UNC Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee. Young adult C57Bl 6 and FVB mice were irradiated using a 137Cs AECL GammaCell 40 Irradiator Atomic Energy of Canada Ltd. Mississauga Ontario Canada . Mice analyzed were young adult 8 12 weeks of age virgin female C57Bl 6 or FVB purchased from Jackson Labs Bar Harbor Me. United States of America unless otherwise specified.

The C3 TAg mice are a model of basal like breast cancer. The C3 TAg mice contain a recombinant gene expressing the simian virus 40 early region transforming sequence SV40 large T antigen which has been shown to inactivate both p53 and Rb. The MMTV c neu model expresses c neu the mouse ortholog of human HER2 driven by the mouse mammary tumor virus MMTV promoter and is a model of HER2 breast cancer. When tumors were noted to be 0.2 cmin size animals were treated as described and tumor response assessed by daily caliper measurements.

PD0332991 was dissolved in sodium lactate buffer pH 4.0 to a final concentration of 15 mg ml. Mice were treated with a 150 mg kg dose of PD0332991. 2BrIC also referred to herein as L4D was solubilized in DMSO and added to cells where final concentration of DMSO

For kidney proliferation experiments mice were treated with a single dose of PD0332991 150 mg kg oral gavage or vehicle control followed by cisplatin 10 mg kg IP . Proliferation was assessed by using BrdU 1 mg IP injection every 6 hours for 24 hours prior to sacrifice or 100 mg of EdU 0.1 mg IP every 24 hours for 3 days prior to sacrifice.

Kidneys were harvested from mice and single cells were isolated using a gentleMACS tissue dissociator Miltinyi Biotec Bergisch Gladbach Germany . Briefly kidneys were cut into small pieces and placed in 10 ml collagenase 1 mg ml in a gentleMACS C tube Miltinyi Biotec Bergisch Gladbach Germany . Tissue was dissociated following the manufacturer s recommendations Miltinyi Biotec Bergisch Gladbach Germany . Cells were then incubated for 5 minutes in ACK buffer to lyse red blood cells filtered and pelleted. Cells were resuspended in 4 paraformaldehyde and stored overnight at 4 C. For quantification of EdU incorporation the cells were fixed permeabilized and stained with an APC EdU Flow Kit according to the manufacturer s instruction Invitrogen Corporation Carlsbad Calif. United States of America . Flow cytometric analysis was performed using a CyAn ADP Dako Glostrup Denmark . For each sample a minimum of 500 000 cells was analyzed and the data were analyzed using FlowJo software Tree Star Inc. Ashland Oreg. United States of America .

In the radioprotection experiments mice were treated with a PD0332991 150 mg kg by oral gavage or vehicle control one hour before exposure to radiation 6.5 Gy . Erythropoietin 4000 units day was given beginning on day 3 following exposure to radiation and continued for three consecutive days.

Baseline complete blood cell CBC anaylsis was performed on a subset of mice prior to drug administration. Following drug administration chemotherapy radiation CDK4 6 inhibitor erythropoietin or control CBC analysis was performed on day 10 and 17 following treatment. 40 l of blood was collected by tail vein nick in BD Microtainer tubes with K2E KEDTA . Blood was analyzed using a Hemavet CBC Diff Veterinary Hematology System Drew Scientific Inc. Dallas Tex. United States of America . CBC analysis included measurement of white blood cells lymphocytes granulocytes monocytes hematocrit red blood cells hemoglobin platelets and other common hematological parameters.

Unless otherwise noted comparisons are made with one way ANOVA with Bonferroni correction for multiple comparisons where appropriate. Error bars are standard error of the mean SEM or standard deviation as indicated.

Cohorts of FVB wild type mice were given placebo or CDK4 6 inhibitor PD0332991 150 mg kg oral gavage just prior to receiving a sub lethal dose of irradiation 6.5 Gcy . Three doses of normal saline control or erythropoietin EPO 100 units were administered by subcutaneous injection at times 72 96 and 120 hours post irradiation. In total there were four treatment cohorts PD0332991 Saline PD0332991 EPO Saline EPO Saline Saline . The sample size for each cohort was Control 7 EPO 8 PD0332991 8 PD EPO 6. Serial blood draws were performed at baseline 10 days post irradiation and 17 days post irradiation. Complete blood counts CBCs were assessed to determine the number of red blood cells various leukocytes subpopulations and platelets.

EPO alone or in combination with PD0332991 had no effect on platelets or other non erythroid cell lineages whereas both treatment cohorts that received PD0332991 showed improved platelet counts as well as other non erythroid cell lineages. EPO alone was not able to improve erythroid cell lineage. Without being bound to any one theory this is believed to be because EPO treatment stimulated erythroid progenitors harboring DNA damage to enter the cell cycle resulting in subsequent apoptosis. However treatment of mice with PD0332991 in combination with EPO showed marked improvement in erythroid function as shown by improved RBC Hb and HCT measurements. Again without being bound to any one theory it is believed that PD0332991 allows erythroid progenitors to repair DNA damage from radiation and then subsequent EPO treatment is believed to stimulate the progenitors to expedite erythroid replacement. In conclusion CDK4 6 inhibitors appear to enhance the efficacy of growth factors to rescue and support the various hematopoietic populations following exposure to DNA damaging agents such as radiation or chemotherapy. Thus for example as part of chemotherapy based cancer treatment regimes CDK4 6 inhibition around the time of DNA damage can be used to enhance growth factor support of bone marrow suppression by allowing bone marrow stem and progenitors to repair DNA damage before growth factor administration has begun. Further CDK4 6 inhibition will mitigate long term e.g. 3 or more years post chemotherapy bone marrow toxicities for example myelodysplasia related to the use of growth factors in cancer patients who survive the disease.

CDK4 6 inhibition around the time of DNA damaging exposure can augment the efficacy of growth factors such as but not limited to G CSF and derivatives e.g. pegylated G CSF GM CSF and derivatives thrombopoietin and derivatives erythropoietin and derivatives e.g. pegylated erythropoietin IL12 steel factor Keratinocyte growth factors. These agents especially G CSF GM CSF and erythropoietin and derivatives are clinically used to reduce the toxicity of chemotherapy and radiation in the care of cancer patients. Pharmacologic quiescence induction through CDK4 6 inhibition around the time of DNA damaging exposure can augment the efficacy of these agents at a later time point e.g. growth factors administration is usually begun 24 72 after the DNA damaging therapeutic .

Use of a potent and selective CDK4 6 inhibitor such as PD0332991 induces a G1 arrest in normal human primary renal proximal tubule epithelial cells. See . A dose dependent increase in the G0 G1 fraction of the cell cycle was observed with a consummate decrease in both G2 M and S phase fractions. In doing so the cells enter pharmacologic quiescence and are held in this state until they are released from this arrest.

Normal human primary renal proximal tubule epithelial cells were plated and exposed 24 hours later to PD0332991 at concentrations of 0 10 nM 30 nM 100 nM 300 nM or 1 uM. Sixteen hours post treatment cells were harvested by standard methods fixed in ice cold methanol until time for DNA staining. Samples were processed and the DNA was stained with propidium iodide PI solution and analyzed by flow cytometry. FCS files from flow cytometer were further analyzed using cell cycle analysis software Mod Fit from Verity Verity Software House Topsham Me. United States of America where cell cycle fractions were calculated as a percentage of the whole population.

Inhibition of CDK4 6 blocks the proliferation of normal human primary renal proximal tubule epithelial cells. These cells were seeded at an appropriate density in 96 well plates and incubated for 24 hours at 37 C. in a humidified incubator at 5 CO. Cells were then exposed to a potent and selective Cdk4 6 inhibitor in this case PD0332991 across a broad dose range 24 hours later. The dose range explored is 0 10 nM 30 nM 100 nM 300 nM 1 M or 3 M PD0332991. Seventy two hours post exposure the CDK4 6 inhibited cells were treated with CellTiter Glo Promega Madison Wis. United States of America using manufacturer s specifications. The plate was read in luminometer at 1 second well. Results were placed in Microsoft Excel and analyzed. In a clear dose dependent inhibition of cell proliferation is obtained in the presence of this inhibitor when compared to DMSO control by 72 hours post treatment. This result in conjunction with demonstrates that Cdk4 6 dependent non hematologic cells can enter pharmacologic quiescence and are thusly inhibited from proliferating.

CDK4 6 inhibition abrogates etoposide induced DNA damage in normal human primary renal proximal tubule epithelial cells. In cell cultures exposed to DNA damaging small molecules or ionizing radiation double stranded DNA breaks are generated rapidly which will lead to the phosphorylation of H2AX. Phosphorylation of H2AX corresponds with double stranded DNA breaks. In normal human primary renal proximal tubule epithelial cells were plated and treated them 24 hours later with 0 100 nM 300 nM or 1 M PD0332991. Sixteen hours later these samples were exposed to 2.5 M etoposide for eight hours. Samples were then harvested fixed and stained for H2AX using Millipore Corporation H2AXx Phosphorylation Assay Kit for Flow Cytometry Millipore Billerica Mass. United States of America . Samples were run on our flow cytometer and results processed through FlowJo Flow Cytometry Analytical Software Treestar Inc. Ashland Oreg. United States of America . These results demonstrate that pharmacologic quiescence provides protection of chemotherapeutically induced DNA damage through pharmacoquiesence in a dose dependent manner.

CDK4 6 inhibition protects normal human primary renal proximal tubule epithelial cells from etoposide induced cell death. In it is demonstrated that the use of a selective and potent CDK4 6 inhibitor in non hematologic cells dependent of CDK4 6 can provide protection from DNA damaging agents such as but not limited to etoposide. Normal human primary renal proximal tubule epithelial cells were plated and treated with increasing doses of the CDK4 6 inhibitor PD0332991 24 hours after seeding. Sixteen hours after treatment these cells were dosed with 2.5 M etoposide for 8 hours. Media was removed and replace with fresh media. Cells were maintained in culture for 7 days at which they were evaluated with CellTiter Glo Promega Madison Wis. United States of America using manufacturer s specifications for effects on cell proliferation. The plate was read in luminometer at 1 second well. Results were placed in Microsoft Excel and analyzed. Cells treated with increasing doses on PD0332991 exhibit in a dose dependent manner protection from etoposide induced cell death.

The kidney is relatively quiescent until challenged by a renal insult. Therefore to determine whether renal cell proliferation was dependent on CDK4 6 activity in vivo renal cell proliferation was stimulated by treating female FVB wt mice with cisplatin a known nephrotoxic chemotherapeutic agent. At time 0 hr mice were started on chow delivering PD0332991 100 mg kg per day or standard chow with no drug. At 24 hours mice received a single dose of cisplatin 15 mg kg by IP injection and an IP injection of 100 mcg of EdU. At 48 hours all mice received a second dose of 100 mcg EdU by IP injection. After 72 hours mice were euthanized and kidneys were harvested. Single cell suspensions of renal cells were made by gently grinding the kidneys using the gentleMACS tissue dissociator Miltinyi Biotec Bergisch Gladbach Germany . Single cell suspensions were then used to measure EdU incorporation flow cytometric analysis. Mice treated with cisplatin and vehicle control showed approximately 17 of cells labeled with EdU whereas mice treated with cisplatin and PD0332991 only had approximately 2 of cells stained positive for EdU incorporation. See . Thus CDK4 6 inhibition resulted in an 88 reduction in cell proliferation further confirming the in vitro analysis that renal cell proliferation is dependent on CDK4 6 activity.

To determine if CDK4 6 inhibition around the time of DNA damage would protect renal function mice were treated with cisplatin a known causative agent of renal tubular damage in humans. Mice were treated with PD0332991 150 mg kg or vehicle control by oral gavage and then received a single dose of cisplatin 15 mg kg by IP injection. 72 hours post treatment mice were euthanized and blood was collected by cardiac puncture for BUN blood urea nitrogen and serum creatinine SrCr analysis. Serum BUN and SrCr are common markers of renal function and serum levels quickly elevated when kidney function has been acutely compromised. shown a dramatic increase in BUN and SrCr following cisplatin administration and a single dose of PD0332991 co administered with the cisplatin was able to abrogate the cisplatin induced nephrotoxicity.

CDK4 6 appears to play a role in cell proliferation of certain non hematological tissues such as the kidney. Thus CDK4 6 inhibitors can be used to protect non hematological tissues such as but not limited to kidney gut heart liver brain thyroid skin intestinal mucosa auditory system lung bladder ovaries uterus testicles adrenals gallbladder pancreas and pancreatic islets stomach blood vessels and bone from DNA damaging agents such as radiation and chemotherapy.

The proliferative effects of CDK4 6 inhibition on a panel of small cell lung cancer SCLC cell lines with intact RB H417 or that were RB deficient H69 H82 H209 H345 was evaluated. Cells were treated with DMSO or PD0332991 100 nM for 48 hours and then cell number was estimated using the WST 1 assay a measure of cellular respiration. See . In the RB intact SCLC cell line H417 cell proliferation was decreased whereas in all four of the RB deficient cell lines cell proliferation was actually increased by CDK4 6 inhibition.

The effects of CDK4 6 inhibition in the C3 Tag transgenic mouse model of basal like breast cancer were also evaluated. The C3 TAg model contains a recombinant gene expressing the simian virus 40 early region transforming sequence SV40 large T antigen which has been shown to inactivate both p53 and RB. Mice were housed up to five per cage with ad libitum access to standard chow and water. Tumor volume was measured by caliper weekly. Tumor volume was calculated using the following formula Volume width length 2. After establishing sufficient tumor volume 50 60 mm mice were stratified by tumor size and randomly assigned to each of the study cohorts Untreated PD0332991 100 mg kg daily in standard chow chemotherapy plus vehicle control once a week for 3 weeks or chemotherapy and PD0332991 once a week for three weeks . In the once a week for 3 week treatment cohorts chemotherapy was administered by IP injection and PD0332991 150 mg kg or vehicle control was administered by oral gavage. The chemotherapy regimen consisted of carboplatin 75 mg kg once a week for three weeks. Treatments were administered on days 0 7 and 14 and tumor volumes were measured weekly until the mice died or were euthanized due to toxicity or tumor burden.

Daily administration of the CDK4 6 inhibitor PD0332991 had no effect on tumor growth in the C3 Tag model at day 21 see whereas co administration of PD0332991 150 mg kg with carboplatin 75 mg kg once a week for 3 weeks resulted in enhanced tumor response in the C3 Tag mice . In addition long term follow up of the C3 Tag mice showed that tumor progression was delayed in the PD0332991 Carboplatin cohort compared to the Mock Gavage Carboplatin cohort . Together these data suggest that in the treatment of tumors with severe derangements of the cell cycle CDK4 6 inhibition can enhance the efficacy of chemotherapy.

Accordingly it appears that CDK4 6 inhibition can augment the efficacy of DNA damaging agents in the treatment of certain cancers with severe derangements of the cell cycle for example cancers characterized by very high levels of CDK2 activity e.g. as a result of amplification of the MYC protooncogene or loss of the RB tumor suppressor protein. In such tumors CDK4 6 inhibitors do not induce pharmacological quiescence in the tumor cells but rather increase the sensitivity of the cancer to DNA damaging agents thereby increasing tumor kill. CDK4 6 inhibitor treatment simultaneously prevents the host hematologic toxicity of DNA damaging agents through the induction of quiescence in certain other cells . This increase in tumor kill of RB null or MYC amplified cancers combined with decreased host toxicity means an increase in the therapeutic window of such tumors allowing for such tumors to be more easily cured with less toxicity to the patient.

A subset of tumor types such as Her2 amplified breast cancers are expected to be sensitive to CDK4 6 inhibition and thus co administration of CDK4 6 inhibitor with chemotherapy is likely to result in tumor protection. However most cancers appear to use the proliferative kinases promiscuously e.g. can use CDK 1 2 4 or 6 . Therefore isolated inhibition of CDK4 6 should not affect tumor growth in the majority of cancers and CDK4 6 inhibition should not negatively impact the efficacy chemotherapy in these tumor types. In fact as noted above CDK4 6 inhibition with selective small molecule inhibitors is expected to increase the efficacy of chemotherapeutic agents in certain tumors that are not CDK4 6 dependent. As would be understood by one of skill in the art such tumors can be deduced based on tumor type and molecular genetics and for example can be cancers characterized by one or more of the group including but not limited to increased activity of CDK1 or CDK2 loss or absence of retinoblastoma tumor suppressor protein RB high levels of MYC expression increased cyclin E and increased cyclin A. Such cancers can include but are not limited to small cell lung cancer retinoblastoma HPV positive malignancies like cervical cancer and certain head and neck cancers MYC amplified tumors such as Burkitts Lymphoma and triple negative breast cancer certain classes of sarcoma certain classes of non small cell lung carcinoma certain classes of melanoma certain classes of pancreatic cancer certain classes of leukemia certain classes of lymphoma certain classes of brain cancer certain classes of colon cancer certain classes of prostate cancer certain classes of ovarian cancer certain classes of uterine cancer certain classes of thyroid and other endocrine tissue cancers certain classes of salivary cancers certain classes of thymic carcinomas certain classes of kidney cancers certain classes of bladder cancer and certain classes of testicular cancers.

In non limiting examples the cancer is selected from a small cell lung cancer retinoblastoma and triple negative ER PR Her2 negative or basal like breast cancer. Small cell lung cancer and retinoblastoma almost always inactivate the retinoblastoma tumor suppressor protein RB and therefore does not require CDK4 6 activity to proliferate. Thus CDK4 6 inhibitor treatment will effect pharmacologic quiescence in the bone marrow and other normal host cells but not in the tumor. Triple negative basal like breast cancer is also almost always RB null. Also certain virally induced cancers e.g. cervical cancer and subsets of Head and Neck cancer express a viral protein E7 which inactivates RB making these tumors functionally RB null. Some lung cancers are also believed to be caused by HPV. As would be understood by one of skill in the art cancers that are not expected to be affected by CDK4 6 inhibitors e.g. those that are RB null that express viral protein E7 or that overexpress MYC can be determined through methods including but not limited to DNA analysis immunostaining Western blot analysis and gene expression profiling.

Acute pharmacologic inhibition of CDK4 6 suppresses lymphocyte proliferation with the most pronounced effect on memory T cell homeostatic proliferation and germinal center formation in mice. To determine whether inhibiting CDK4 6 affects memory cell generation and maintenance mice were treated with selective CDK4 6 inhibitors PD 0332991 or an unrelated selective CDK4 6 inhibitor 2BrIC. 2BrIC was synthesized by OTAVA Chemicals Kiev Ukraine and can be prepared according to methods described in Zhu et al. 46 2027 2030 2003 . Acute inhibition of CDK4 6 by PD 0332991 or 2BrIC resulted in more significant decrease in homeostatic proliferation of memory T cells than naive T cells as measured by BrdU incorporation and Ki67 expression in both human and murine cells. See . In an effect of PD0332991 on in vivo BrdU incorporation of CD4 and CD8 murine Tcells with greatest effects seen in the CD44 CD25 memory cells quantified in . A similar effect on in vivo homeostatic proliferation was noted in unstimulated splenic T cells using Ki67 staining . Decreased CKD4 6 activity also suppressed germinal center formation which is relevant to memory B cell generation. See . These data reveal a role for CDK4 6 in memory cell homeostasis.

Similar results were seen using human lymphocytes. shows an experimental scheme to address similar issues in human cells. Human lymphocytes are sorted to T CD3 and B CD19 cells and treated in vitro with CDK4 6 inhibitor prior to stimulation with PMA and Inomycin P I OKT3 Tcells or IgM Bcells with proliferation assessed by BrdU uptake and Ki67y expression and activation assessed by CD25 expression. shows that as in murine cells CDK4 6 inhibitors block proliferation in response to Tcell receptor TCR stimulation P I with a greater effect in CD45 RA low memory cells. These data are graphed in . In the effects of CDK4 6 inhibition on specific Tcell fractions is assessed with and without TCR showing CDK4 6 inhibition has a greater effect on proliferation of memory cells relative to na ve cells. A similar effect was seen in CD8 cells. shows similar data as in but using Ki67 as a marker of proliferation instead of BrdU. These effects on proliferation change the relative frequencies of CD4 see and CD8 see cells. CDK4 6 inhibitors decrease the CD4 effector memory EM cell frequency to a greater extent than na ve cells. See . A similar result is seen in CD8 cells. As a result of these effects on proliferation memory naive ratio decreased by half in both CD4 and CD8 compartments. See . These alterations in proliferation are associated with decreased T cell activation as measured by CD25 expression. See .

This ability to inhibit T cell proliferation can be of use in the therapy of autoimmune and allergic diseases. These conditions are presently treated with a variety of cytotoxic and steroidal agents that have significant toxicity. The memory T cell compartment has been difficult to target in order to attenuate anemnestic immune responses and the use of CDK4 6 inhibitors to reduce proliferation of this fraction will be particularly useful for therapy of autoimmune and allergic diseases.

The effect of CDK4 6 inhibition on thymocyte development was assessed by determining the percentages and absolute numbers of thymocytes at different stages Double Negative DN CD4 CD8 Double Positive DP CD4 CD8 Single Positive SP CD4 or CD8 by FACS. DN cells are converted to DP cells which are then converted to cells singly positive for CD4 or CD8. Transient CDK4 6 inhibition produced a pronounced reduction in DP and SP cells with relative sparing of DN cells. This result suggests that CDK4 6 activation is required during thymopoiesis for the production of new na ve Tcells. See .

Cohorts of wild type mice were treated with vehicle or a CDK4 6 inhibitor as in . Ki67 staining of a germinal center in a lymph node shows a marked decreased in proliferation with CDK4 6 inhibition. A similar result was seen in splenic CD45R B cells. See . Unstimulated mice were treated for 24 hours with PD0332991 and homeostatic B cell proliferation measured by Ki67 staining after appropriate sorting. Similar results were obtained using BrdU incorporation to measure splenic B cell proliferation. See . Similar experiments were undertaken in human cells with B cell receptor stimulation as described in . shows that CDK4 6 inhibition blocks Bcell stimulation by P I. These results show that homeostatic germinal center and BCR induced Bcell proliferation requires CDK4 6 activity in mice and humans.

Several lines of autoimmune mouse models have been developed including NOD mice spontaneous autoimmune diabetes and Lyn lupus like autoimmune disease . See e.g. Anderson and Bluestone 23 447 485 2005 and Hibbs et al. 83 301 311 1995 . Cohorts of both young about 4 6 weeks and old 30 weeks mice are treated with placebo or a CDK4 6 inhibitor for defined periods of time before being analyzed for autoimmune phenotypes.

It will be understood that various details of the presently disclosed subject matter can be changed without departing from the scope of the presently disclosed subject matter. Furthermore the foregoing description is for the purpose of illustration only and not for the purpose of limitation.

