---

title: Method and system for managing user security permissions for access to resources
abstract: Disclosed is a method and system of managing user security permissions for access to resources accessible over a communications network, to participate in a designated task or conversation relating to the resources. The method and system include: assembling resources relating to the designated task or conversation into a collection and allocating security permissions for users to access said resources in the collection over the network based on whether the users are active or passive participants in the task or the conversation. Active participants have been invited to participate in the task or the conversation and passive participants have not been invited to participate in the task or the conversation, and security permissions allocated for each of the users to access said resources in the collection to the providers of the resources are communicated, such that the providers set the security permissions for each of the users to access the resources.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09350745&OS=09350745&RS=09350745
owner: COGWARE PTY LTD
number: 09350745
owner_city: Melbourne, Victoria
owner_country: AU
publication_date: 20130927
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 707 412 filed on Sep. 28 2012 that is incorporated herein in its entirety by reference thereto.

The present disclosure relates to a method and system for managing user security permissions for access to resources that are provided by providers to participate in a designated task or conversation relating to the resources and are accessible over a communications network. The present disclosure is of particular but not exclusive application in automatically allocating security permissions for users to access the resources based on whether the users are active or passive participants in the task or conversation so that the providers can set the security permissions for these users to access the resources.

Communications technology the Internet and now cloud computing for instance have increased our ability to produce and communicate information so much so that we now deal with a flood of information on a daily basis. We are increasingly using these technologies to collaborate with more people on many different things. However while the ability to produce and communicate information has exploded the security model for controlling access to the information has remained largely unchanged.

For example one existing method of controlling access to information or resources is based around the notion of a domain. That is controlling access by storing the resources in domains and controlling user access to each domain. However people typically collaborate on information across multiple domains and thus to request user access to each different domain can be slow and cumbersome. For example people may collaborate within their organisation and within various interest groups parents may collaborate with their children to help with homework assignments university students may collaborate with each other on projects and couples may collaborate to plan a holiday. In these existing examples users may collaborate across more than one domain but each domain is orientated towards a different goal. This domain based model is in fact grounded on an old world view of how people should be organised to achieve some goal. The domain model however is slow and convoluted and does not adequately support the need to quickly collaborate with many people on many different things. It thus cannot support both speedy collaboration and tight control over security of resources and information.

In another existing example to enable say speedy collaboration the domain model can be configured with loose security. For example a university student who needs to collaborate with other students on a project may impose almost no security over their information. Thus to collaborate on a collection of resources the student may email the information track any changes review changes accept changes and try to keep versions in sync. Once the documents are emailed there is no control over what happens to them information may be edited unintentionally or worse still mischievously used by others. The documents can be used by anyone who gets access to them. The original author can have no idea who gets access to them and what they are used for. Accordingly loose security is not suited to many applications where privacy of users theft or authenticity of information is concerned. As an alternative the students may choose to use a cloud based service such as Google Docs where security is however generally assigned one document at a time.

There are also many existing examples of say corporate and government organisations which impose tight security controls over information access. However when the domain model is configured with tighter control over resource access the bureaucratic and slow process required to gain access to the resources can prevent efficient and productive collaboration. Indeed these organisations particularly the ones where work occurs in virtual silos may well find it difficult to encourage efficient and creative collaboration between members of the organisation using the existing domain based security model for access to resources. Moreover the typical methods and processes for selecting sharing and assigning permissions on resources such as documents spread sheets and presentations is time consuming convoluted and can be stifling to the users.

Furthermore in the above corporate environment example resource access permissions can be assigned to people individually or on the basis that they are the member of a group. The group however must be manually defined and members manually entered. For example within an organisation resources e.g. files are stored within domain servers. The organisation controls access to the resources by restricting access to those within their domain. Access is then further restricted by organisation hierarchy or group. For example the Human Resources department has access to certain resources the Finance Department to others etc. The domain model however cannot support the need to collaborate on many different resources with many different people some say openly and some with tight security requirements over a given period of time.

Previously email has been a common collaboration tool to use. It has enabled massive increases in productivity and in turn creativity and innovation whilst other existing collaboration systems work on directory hierarchy or group models. Nonetheless email generally provides no control over security on the resources which are being collaborated on. Accordingly there is still a need for considerable manual security administration which does not enable both fast paced and tight control over the security. Furthermore as briefly mentioned technologies such as Google Docs or Office 365 readily enable collaboration on a resource but it is still necessary to manually share and allocate permissions on the resource.

According to one aspect of the present disclosure there is provided a computer implemented method of managing user security permissions for access to resources that are provided by providers to participate in a designated task or conversation relating to the resources and are accessible over a communications network the method including 

It will be appreciated by those persons skilled in the art that the word resources is used to encompass information contained in say files documents spread sheets presentations calendars communications information and also physical resources such as printers etc. That is resources such as files and web sites containing information can be accessed for collaboration by the active and or passive participants using the above method.

In addition it will be appreciated by those persons skilled in the art that the word task encompasses activities goals and plans that need to accomplished as well as contributing to wikis e.g. wiki web sites events blogs and webpages. It will also be appreciated that the term conversation encompasses communications such as posts and comments in relation to the resources.

In an embodiment the resources are hosted by providers in data communication with a controller for implementing the above method and the controller is also in data communication with the users. That is in the embodiment users access the resources hosted by the providers over the Internet via the controller at the first instance for allocating security permission which is interposed between the users and the providers to implement the method of access control. In another embodiment the controller and the providers of the resources are hosted by the same system which is in data communication with the users. Nonetheless once a user has been given permission to access a resource for example by virtue of becoming an active participant in a conversation they can then access that resource through the system or through the provider directly.

In an embodiment the present disclosure applies a situation based security model for managing user security permissions for access to resources rather than the above described domain model. Accordingly it removes the need to consider resources on a one by one basis and the need to manually share and set permissions on resources. Indeed for users of the embodiment it can also remove the need to for example email track and synchronise versions of documents forming resources. That is instead of sharing and allocating permissions to resources on a domain and organisation or group basis it is done automatically based on the situational need of the users according to the method.

For example if you are collaborating on a task with others in your organisation but they are in a different department instead of asking network administrators to create a new group copy files to it share them and set permissions the resources will be automatically shared to those others by virtue of them being an active participant in a task. Also if you are collaborating with individuals from another organisation instead of having to email files track and synchronise changes resources will be automatically shared with those individuals by virtue of them participating in the same task or conversation. Furthermore if you are a university student working on project with others instead of manually sharing Google Docs and setting permissions this will happen automatically by the mechanism described above. That is others on the same project team as yourself and the lecturer will automatically receive access by virtue of being active participants in the conversation or task.

In an embodiment the method further includes allocating said security permissions for the users to access said resources in the collection based on whether the users are members of a designated group with designated permissions for the resources in the collection. That is the users can be individuals part of groups and members of organisations and can either be active or passive participants in a conversation or task. As described the active participants are those users that have been invited to participate in a collection for a designated task or conversation. Passive participants are those users that have not been invited to participate in a collection for a designated task or conversation but may be able to participate on some level depending on a designated security configuration for the passive participants.

In an embodiment the security permissions include permission policies of a security model to view the resources comment on the resources edit the resources delete the resources control permissions for other users to the resources and own the resources.

In an embodiment the method further includes allocating said permission policies to any one of users that are active participants in the task or the conversation and are members of a designated group users that are active participants in the task or the conversation users that have designated permissions for the resources and users that are passive participants in the task or the conversation. The allocation of the permission policies is predetermined so that for example passive participants can only view the resources and active participants can edit the resources. This predetermined allocation of permission policies forms a security configuration or security model defining the types of access that can be allocated to the active and passive participants to access the resources.

In an embodiment the method further includes the providers setting the permission policies based on the security permissions communicated thereto for any one of users that are active participants in the task or the conversation and are members of a designated group users that are active participants in the task or the conversation 

users that have designated permissions for the resources and users that are passive participants in the task or the conversation.

In an embodiment the permission policies set by the providers override the permission policies allocated to said users to access said resources in the collection.

In an embodiment the method further includes translating said security permissions allocated for each of the users to access said resources in the collection to a provider model for use by the providers to set the security permissions for each of the users to access the resources.

In an embodiment the method further includes interfacing with the providers to communicate the provider model so that the providers set the security permissions for each of the users to access the resources.

In an embodiment the method further includes assembling data indicative of said active and said passive participants in the task or the conversation into the collection. Also the method further includes assembling data indicative of communications on the resources created by the users participating in the conversation into the collection. It will be appreciated by those persons skilled in the art that the resources can be assembled into more than one collection and the users can participate in more than one task or conversation. In any event the collections enable say communication such as posts about the resources and hence collaboration on the resources.

In an embodiment the method further includes allocating the security permissions for said users to access the resources in the collection based on the data indicative of said active and said passive participants assembled into the collection.

In an embodiment the method further includes removing the security permissions for said users to access the resources in the collection in response to the data indicative of said active and said passive participants being removed from the collection. That is the embodiment controls both the automatic allocating and the removal of security permissions to users based on situational needs.

According to another aspect of the present disclosure there is provided a system for managing user security permissions for access to resources that are provided by providers to participate in a designated task or conversation relating to the resources and are accessible over a communications network the system including a controller implementing 

According to another aspect of the present disclosure there is provided computer program code which when executed implements the above method.

According to another aspect of the present disclosure there is provided a tangible computer readable medium including the above program code.

According to another aspect of the present disclosure there is provided a data file including the above program code.

According to an embodiment there is provided a system for managing user security permissions for users to access resources that are provided by providers so that the users can participate in a designated task or conversation relating to the resources as shown in . The resources are accessible over a communications network and it can be seen from this figure that the users access an intermediary controller to manage security permissions over the communications network so that the users can access the resources provided by the providers . It will be appreciated by those persons skilled in the art that the intermediary controller can also be implemented at either the user side or the provider side so that the users can access the resources over the communications network which is say the Internet. It will also be appreciated that the communications network could also be a private network.

The intermediary controller implements a number of modules to manage the user security permissions including a collection module for assembling resources relating to a designated task or conversation into a collection. It will be appreciated by those persons skilled in the art that the controller includes a processor and memory not shown to implement these modules.

Secondly the intermediary controller includes a security module for allocating security permissions for users to access the resources in the collection over the communications network based on whether the users are active or passive participants in the task or the conversation. As described the active participants are users that have been invited to participate in the task or the conversation and the passive participants have not been invited to participate in the task or the conversation. The intermediary controller further includes an output module for communicating the security permissions allocated for each of the users to access the resources in the collection to the providers of the resources such that the providers set the security permissions for each of the users to access the resources .

As described the users in certain situations require security permissions to access specific resources . shows users including an individual person or a group member of one or more groups . Groups can exist as entities themselves for example a special interest group or can also be members of organisations for example the finance department within a company. That is the group can belong to one or more organisations so that a user can be a member of a group and an organisation . Moreover the different groups have designated permissions for accessing resources. In this way security permissions can be allocated to users both based on whether they are active or passive participants in a task or conversation relating to the resources and their membership with a group and or organisation .

Where a plurality of groups exists within organisations there can be a hierarchy that defines which groups are part of which larger parent groups. Accordingly the user can belong to one or more of these hierarchical groups which may affect the security permissions allocated to the user . For example users in an executive group may be allocated greater access to resources than users in a staff group of an organisation. Also users are grouped within the same organisational group by either choosing to connect or automatically connecting with the other group members by virtue of belonging to the same organisation group .

With reference to collections represent the situation in which there is a need for security permissions to be allocated to the users that is when a resource provided by a provider is to be accessed by a user . The collections are an assemblage of collection resources relating to a designated task or conversation on those collection resources as well as data indicative of the active or passive collection participants in the task or conversation. The collections can be seen in to include data indicative of the collection resources the collection participants as well as communications in the form of collection posts and comments and participant resource permissions . As described the resources require security permissions to be accessed and the collection posts and comments represent the conversation and collaboration on those resources by users . For instance the users are active participants if they have been invited generally by a user with a designated permission to invite other users to say comment on the resources . The active and passive participants have not been invited but in one example may be granted permission to view the resources only and not comment depending on a collection security configuration. In another example the passive collection participants are granted permission to write to resources such as files. It can be seen from this figure that the active and passive collection participants include the users who need the security permissions to access the resources and who are assembled into the collection .

The collection security configuration defines the permissions that can be granted to a user based on whether they are active or passive collection participants in the tasks and conversations on the resources in the collection and which groups and organisations they belong to. Active and passive collection participants can also be granted special individual resource permissions to the collection resources . In this way when a user is added to a collection a resource permission change mechanism automatically allocates the user access to the collection resources based on the collection security configuration.

The security permissions for the collection security configuration include the ability of the user to view the resources comment on the resources edit the resources delete the resources and control permissions for other users to the resources . In addition the owner of the resources may get allocated special permission to the resources . In an example the resources include links to files web sites and other Internet resources such as Google Docs and Office 365 documents which are provided by providers and collaborated on by the active and passive collection participants .

It will be appreciated by those persons skilled in the art that the security permissions are not static and that permissions can be removed for users to access resources in a collection . Indeed when a user is removed from a collection a resource permission change mechanism automatically removes the user access to the collection resources based on the designated rules in the collection security configuration.

Also the resources can have an override security configuration which takes precedence over any other security permission. The override security configuration for a resource can be set by a user who is an owner of the resource . That is the permission policies set by the providers of the resources override the permission policies allocated to the users based on the collection security configuration. For example a provider e.g. owner of a resource can set who can view the resource who can view and comment in the resource who can edit the resource who can delete the resource who can control security for the resource and who can be assigned as the owner of the resource irrespective of whether the users are active or passive participants in the task or conversation relating to those resources . In the example the provider can set further security policies such as any active participant within a set of selected groups or organisations can access the resources any active participant or only participants explicitly given permission.

The collection security configuration is implemented by a security model which defines the types of access that can be allocated to active and passive collection participants to access the resources . These allocated security permission are then translated by a security to provider translation mechanism into the equivalent permissions where possible on providers system. The translated security permissions are then communicated to the providers of the resources so that the providers can set the security permissions for the each of the users to access the resources .

In an example the security model includes the following permissions none no access will be allocated to the resource view the user can view but not modify the resource view and comment the user can both view the resource and also make comments within it edit the user can view comment on and change the contents in the resource delete the user can delete the resource control resource security the user can assign security permissions to other users for a resource and owner the user is one of the owners of a resource .

The collection security configuration defines how the security model is applied to active and passive participants and resources within a collection . That is the collection security configuration is the default security model to be applied to the active and passive collection participants who require access to resources . The collection security configuration however allows for individual participants to be given individual special permissions which apply to them only. These special permissions can be the granting of additional rights or the downgrading of rights from the default security configuration. Individual collection resources can also override the collection security configuration with their own custom security configuration which is essentially the same as a collection security configuration except that it only applies to that one collection resource in the specific collection .

The collection security configuration is a set of security settings that are stored with the collection entity. The active and passive collection participants records contain any special permissions that have been granted to individual participants. The participant resource permissions define and record the level of access each individual active and passive participant has to each collection resource . For the purposes of the collection security configuration settings below users can be both internal and external internal users are those internal to an organisation if the collection is owned by a user in an organisation . Otherwise internal users are those who are group members of the group if the collection is owned by a user in a group . External users are all other users. To simplify the process of configuring security for a collection a choice will be provided between simplified security settings or detailed security settings.

The simplified collection security configuration settings include that internal participants should be able to do one of the following view and discuss resources collaborate on resources and have full control over resources . Also external participants are either not permitted or must request permission before participating.

The detailed collection security configuration settings include settings for who can assign ownership of the collection who can invite internal users who can invite external users who can approve participation requests from internal users who can approve participation requests from external users who can control the invitation criteria for passive participants who can remove internal participants who can remove external participants and who can delete the collection . Furthermore without removing any existing permissions who can view resources who can view and comment in resources who can edit resources who can delete resources who can control resource security who will be automatically assigned as owner of resources who can set security permissions for the collection who can view the active participant list who can view posts and comments. Also one of these three options can be set for each of the above policies any active participant within a set of selected groups or organisations any active participant internal or external and only participants explicitly given permission.

Further collection security configuration settings involve when an active and passive collection participant is removed from the collection or a resource is removed from the collection which of these permissions on resources should be removed if they aren t an owner of a resource and don t have permission through another collection . The choices are access view view and comment edit delete control resource security ask for each individual.

Further collection security configuration settings are can users within the owner s organisation or group who discover this collection participate in a passive way and can users external to the owner s organisation or group who discover this collection participate in a passive way. The choices are no and yes. Also a user can request permission to become an active or passive participant in this case passive .

Further collection security configuration settings are to allow internal passive participants to see the list of active participants and allow external passive participants to see the list of active participants. Without affecting any existing permissions the collection security configuration settings include which passive participants can access resources which passive participants can view resources which passive participants can view and comment in resources which passive participants can edit resources which passive participants can delete resources and which passive participants will be automatically assigned as owner of resources . The choices are none only passive participants internal to the organisation only passive participants internal to the group and any passive participant.

Further collection security configuration settings are to allow internal passive participants to see posts and comments and allow external passive participants to see posts and comments.

As described the resource permission change mechanism applies the collection security configuration to active and passive collection participants as they are assembled e.g. added or removed from the collection . The resource permission change mechanism also creates and removes the permissions each active and passive collection participants has to the collection resources . The providers each have their own unique security model that defines amongst other things the types of permissions that can be allocated for access to resources .

The provider includes a security model translation for each provider as a record containing the security model permissions and the settings for translating them. The record contains a set of security model permission does provider have direct equivalent true false provider equivalent permission and fall back provider equivalent permission if no direct equivalent .

The translating mechanism for translating the security permissions allocated to the users to access the resources in the collection to a provider model for use by the providers to set the security permissions for the users is shown in . That is a flow chart illustrates translating a given model permission from the security model into the equivalent permission on the provider s system. With the given security permission it must first be determined whether there is a direct equivalent on the provider s system . If there is an equivalent it is returned as the translated permission . If there is no direct equivalent permission the fall back permission is determined . If there is no fall back the translation result is not possible. If there is a fall back it is returned as the translated permission .

The resource permission change mechanism utilises a provider interface mechanism to enact the participant resource permissions to be applied to resources for each collection participant . The resource permission change mechanism also actions changes to security permissions on resources when either participants or collection resources are added and removed from a collection .

A provider interface mechanism communicates the provider model so that the providers can set the security permissions for the users and has a set of methods for each provider . Specifically the mechanism calls a provider s application programming interface API to modify permissions on the resources . New providers can also be included by developing a set of methods for that provider using the interface.

Providers systems have their own unique ways of requiring other systems to identify themselves using their own set of required tokens. To cater for this each provider record contains a set of provider tokens which are name and value pairs. They store the name of a provider token or identifier and the value for that token. The tokens are used by the provider interface mechanism where required by the provider s API.

In addition to ensure collection participants don t have to be logged in when users are added and removed from a collection the user record contains a set of offline tokens for each provider . These tokens allow the user to authorise the application to make permission changes to resources that they own on their behalf. The offline tokens are used by the provider interface mechanism where required and supported by the provider s API.

After evaluation if the participant has one or more permissions they need to be translated for the relevant provider. The provider s API is then used to set permissions on the resource for the participant .

Referring back to there is shown a summary of a computer implemented method of managing user security permissions for access to resources that are provided by providers to participate in a designated task or conversation relating to the resources and are accessible over a communications network . The method including assembling resources relating to the designated task or the conversation into a collection allocating security permissions for users to access said resources in the collection over the network based on whether the users are active or passive participants in the task or the conversation whereby the active participants have been invited to participate in the task or the conversation and the passive participants have not been invited to participate in the task or the conversation and communicating the security permissions allocated for each of the users to access said resources in the collection to the providers of the resources such that the providers set the security permissions for each of the users to access the resources .

Further aspects of the method will be apparent from the above description of the system. Persons skilled in the art will also appreciate that the method could be embodied in program code. The program code could be supplied in a number of ways for example on a tangible computer readable medium such as a disc or a memory or as a data signal or data file for example by transmitting it from a server .

It is to be understood that various alterations additions and or modifications may be made to the parts previously described without departing from the ambit of the present disclosure and that in the light of the above teachings the present disclosure may be implemented in software firmware and or hardware in a variety of manners as would be understood by the skilled person.

The discussion of documents acts materials devices articles and the like is included in this specification solely for the purpose of providing a context for the present disclosure. It is not suggested or represented that any or all of these matters formed part of the prior art base or were common general knowledge in the field relevant to the present disclosure as it existed before the priority date of each claim of this application.

