---

title: Regulating credential information dissemination
abstract: A validating device receives, from a client device associated with a user, a representation for a first credential associated with the user. The validating device validates the representation for the first credential associated with the user based on data derived from the representation for the first credential associated with the user and identification data associated with the validating device. The validating device obtains a first set of data associated with the user and a second set of data associated with the user. The second set of data is different from the first set of data. The first set of data is obtained based on verifying the identification data associated with the validating device. Obtaining the second set of data is independent of verifying the identification data associated with the validating device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09438597&OS=09438597&RS=09438597
owner: MicroStrategy Incorporated
number: 09438597
owner_city: Vienna
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131022
---
A user may be associated with a credential that for example permits the user to be identified to others or to access resources or both.

In one aspect a non transitory computer readable medium stores instructions that are executable by one or more processors. Upon such execution the instructions cause the one or more processors to perform the following operations. A validating device receives from a client device associated with a user a representation for a first credential associated with the user. The validating device validates the representation for the first credential associated with the user based on data derived from the representation for the first credential associated with the user and identification data associated with the validating device. The validating device obtains a first set of data associated with the user and a second set of data associated with the user. The second set of data is different from the first set of data. The first set of data is obtained based on verifying the identification data associated with the validating device. Obtaining the second set of data is independent of verifying the identification data associated with the validating device.

Particular implementations may include one or more of the following features. The validating device validating the representation for the first credential associated with the user based on data derived from the representation for the first credential associated with the user and identification data associated with the validating device may comprise sending by the validating device and to a validation server a request to validate the representation for the first credential associated with the user. The request may include data derived from the representation for the first credential associated with the user and the identification data associated with the validating device. Obtaining at the validating device the first set of data associated with the user and the second set of data associated with the user may comprise receiving at the validating device and from the validation server a response comprising the first set of data associated with the user and the second set of data associated with the user.

The representation of the first credential may be presented by a user interface shown on a display coupled to the client device. The representation of the first credential may be selected from the group consisting of an alphanumeric code optical machine readable representation sound signal and near field communication signal.

The identification data associated with the validating device may include a second credential that is associated with the validating device. Verifying the identification data associated with the validating device may comprise validating the second credential associated with the validating device.

The first set of data associated with the user may include identifying information corresponding to the user that is designated as private. The second set of data associated with the user may include identifying information corresponding to the user that is designated as public.

A grouping of the first set of data and a grouping of the second set of data may be based on instructions configured by a credential issuing organization associated with the first credential associated with the user. The instructions configured by the credential issuing organization may include information directing a determination of data to be provided to the validating device based on verifying the identification data associated with the validating device.

The instructions may cause the one or more processors to perform the following operations. The first set of data obtained at the validating device may be processed. In response to processing the first set of data it may be determined that the user is authorized to access a resource associated with the validating device. Access to the resource may be provided based on the determination.

Providing access to the resource may comprise unlocking a door based on a key represented within a portion of the first set of data obtained at the validating device. Providing access to the resource may comprise granting access to an account based on a username and password included in the first set of data. The account may be one of a computer account or a network account.

Providing access to the resource in response to processing the first set of data may comprise retrieving a document based on a document location encoded within a portion of the first set of data.

The instructions may cause the one or more processors to present using a display coupled to the validating device the first set of data and the second set of data obtained at the validating device.

In another aspect a non transitory computer readable medium stores instructions that are executable by one or more processors. Upon such execution the instructions cause the one or more processors to perform the following operations. A server receives from a validating device a request to validate a representation for a first credential associated with a user. The request includes data derived from the representation for the first credential associated with the user and identification data associated with the validating device. The server validates the data derived from the representation for the first credential associated with the user. The server verifies the identification data associated with the validating device.

Based on validating the data derived from the representation for the first credential and verifying the identification data associated with the validating device the server determines data associated with the user that is to be shared with the validating device. The data associated with the user that is to be shared with the validating device includes a first set of data that is available only when the identification data associated with the validating device is verified and a second set of data that is available independent of verifying the identification data associated with the validating device. The server transmits to the validating device the data associated with the user that is to be shared with the validating device.

Particular implementations may include one or more of the following features. Determining by the server data associated with the user that is to be shared with the validating device may comprise the server accessing an instruction configured by a credential issuing organization that is operable to manage the first credential associated with the user. The instruction may direct the server to transmit the first set of data when the identification data associated with the validating device is verified and to transmit the second set of data when the identification data associated with the validating device is not verified. Based on accessing the instruction configured by the credential issuing organization the server may obtain the first set of data associated with the user when the identifying associated with the validating device is verified and obtain the second set of data associated with the user when the identification data associated with the validating device is not verified.

The identification data associated with the validating device may include a second credential that is associated with the validating device. Verifying the identification data associated with the validating device may comprise validating the second credential associated with the validating device.

The instructions may cause the one or more processors to perform the following operations. The server may receive from a second validating device a second request to validate a second representation for the first credential associated with the user. The second request may include data derived from the second representation for the first credential and identification data associated with the second validating device. The server may validate the data derived from the second representation for the first credential. The server may examine the identification data associated with the second validating device. Based on validating the data derived from the second representation for the first credential and examining the identification data associated with the second validating device the server may determine that the second validating device is not enabled to access the first set of data associated with the user. In response to determining that the second validating device is not enabled to access the first set of data associated with the user the server may send to the second validating device the second set of data associated with the user.

Implementations of the above may include methods systems and computer program products. A method may perform one or more of the above described actions. A system may comprise a non volatile memory device that includes logic operable to perform one or more of the above described actions. A computer program product may be suitably embodied in a non transitory machine readable medium and include instructions executable by one or more processors. The instructions may be configured to cause the one or more processors to perform the above described actions.

The details of one or more implementations are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features will be apparent from the description and drawings and from the claims.

In some instances representations of credentials for individuals or for groups of individuals or both are generated. The credentials may be for example identity credentials driver s licenses passports visas police badges etc. health insurance cards loyalty cards badges reflecting membership in a group e.g. employees of a company students of an educational institution gym club memberships etc. badges to gain entrance to a location or event a ticket for entry to a location or event a key that unlocks a lock e.g. for entry to a location etc.

In some implementations different credentials may be issued by different credential issuing organizations. For example a company may be a credential issuing organization issuing credentials for its employees that are used for accessing various company resources while a physical fitness chain may be another credential issuing organization that issues credentials to its members for accessing the gymnasiums managed by the chain.

The credentials issued by different credential issuing organizations may be managed using a credential management system which enables a first user of the system to validate a credential presented by a second user of the system irrespective of the credential issuing organization that issued the credential. Responsive to successful validation of a credential information associated with the validated credential including information about the credentialed second user may be disseminated to the validating first user. In the following description a user who is validating a credential is also referred to as a validator while a user associated with the validated credential is also referred to as a validatee. 

There may be situations where data to be returned to a user or application responsive to successful validation of a credential is not to be shared with all users and or applications that can validate the credential. To accommodate these situations when issuing a credential to a user a credential issuing organization may designate certain information associated with the credential as being public and thus safe to provide in response to a successful validation of the credential e.g. by any user or application or both whereas other information associated with the credential is designated as private and thus only to be shared with certain users and or applications e.g. users and or applications holding certain credentials associated with the credential issuing organization responsive to successful validation of the credential.

In other words information associated with the validated credential including information about the validatee may have different sharing designations associated with different information. The sharing designations may be determined by the credential issuing organization or the validatee or any suitable combination of both. Depending on the sharing designation different information may be disseminated to different validators. In some cases some information corresponding to the validatee may be shared by default with all successful validators while other information e.g. more sensitive identifying information or permissions associated with accessing various resources may be shared based on the identity of the validator where the identity of the validator is based on credentials held by the validator or an identifier associated with the validator or both . For example user information that is designated as public by the credential issuing organization may be transmitted to the validating device e.g. to enable the validator to compare the copy of the credential to the credential presented by the validatee . If the credential is validated by a user associated with the same credential issuing organization as the validatee e.g. a validator who holds a credential from the same credential issuing organization as the validatee or an application associated with the validatee s credential issuing organization additional information corresponding to the validated credential that is designated as private by the credential issuing organization may be transmitted to the validating user.

In some implementations different additional information may be transmitted to different validators. For example a validator that is associated with the credential issuing organization of the credential being validated may receive a first subset of the private information associated with the validated credential. On the other hand a different validator associated with a different credential issuing organization may receive a second subset of the private information associated with the validated credential that is different from the first subset. For example the credential issuing organization may be a company with the credential being an employee badge or identification. In this case the first subset may include information such as the duration of employment of the associated employee name and contact information for the employee s supervisor or some other suitable information. The validator may be a customer of the employee s company with the second subset of information including the employee s work email address and work phone but excluding the employment duration or supervisor information mentioned above.

Credentials can be maintained on and or accessed from electronic client devices e.g. mobile computing devices like smart phones and tablet computers which are also referred to simply as client devices. Instances of an application associated with the credential management system may run on the client devices for managing credentials stored therein. A server or collection of servers also may be associated with the credential management system for centralized management of credentials issued by various credential issuing organizations and for distributing credentials to appropriate users client devices. Users and third parties may operate the client devices to present representations of the credentials for validation and the representations may be validated using suitable mechanisms.

Techniques for validating user credentials and regulating information corresponding to the validated credential that is disseminated to the validating devices are described in greater detail in the rest of this disclosure.

As shown in the UI includes a caption and one or more buttons and . In addition the UI displays one or more credentials and .

The caption Wallet identifies the UI as the user s wallet which is a collection of the various credentials associated with the user. In some implementations the user s wallet is managed by the instance of the credential management application running on the user s client device.

The various credentials shown by the user s wallet may be issued by different credential issuing organizations or by the same credential issuing organization or by a combination of both. For example the UI displays a Gym Membership ID issued by Workout Gym. In addition the UI displays an Employee ID and a Company M Headquarters 10th Floor Access Badge both of which are issued by Company M Incorporated.

The user can select any one of these credentials from the user s wallet to output a representation of the credential from the user s client device. In some implementations the display coupled to the client device may be a presence sensitive display for example a capacitive touch sensitive display and the user may make the selection by touching an area of the display that shows the selected credential.

The user can select an Edit command button to modify settings associated with the credentials and can add a credential that has been issued to the user by a credential issuing organization to the wallet by selecting the command button .

Examples of different representations for credentials and mechanisms for validating the different representations are described with reference to . In certain implementations credentials can be represented by alphanumeric codes optical machine readable representations sound signals and or near field communication NFC signals.

The credential includes captions and an image a slider a representation for the credential and a control button .

The caption provides information identifying the type of the credential and the credential issuing organization. For example the caption identifies the credential as an Employee ID for Company M Incorporated. 

The image is an image of the user associated with the credential . In some implementations the image allows a validator to visually identify the employee associated with the credential . In some implementations the client device may obtain the user s image from for example a memory coupled to the client device while in some other implementations the client device may obtain the user s image from a remote server such as a server managed by the credential management system.

The caption provides the name or other identifying information or both for the user associated with the credential. For example as shown the caption provides the name of the employee associated with the credential as John Doe and the employee designation as Chief Security Officer. 

The slider may enable a user to select between different representations for the credential by swiping between different positions of the slider. A representation for a credential may be a depiction or rendering corresponding to the credential that enables the credential to be validated. For example the slider may include four positions indicated by the dots included in the slider as shown in . In the first position of the slider the slider may cause an optical machine readable representation for the credential e.g. a quick response QR code to be displayed as shown in and discussed in greater detail below.

In some implementations the control button may indicate that additional information corresponding to the user associated with the credential is available. When the user selects the control button for example by touching an area of the presence sensitive display that shows the control button a new page may be shown by the UI that provides further information regarding the user such as the employee s phone number the employee s electronic mail email address or other suitable information.

As referred to herein an optical machine readable representation of a credential may be an arrangement of graphical elements that encode alphanumeric data representing the credential where the elements are arranged so that the data can be read by an optical scanner. For example an optical machine readable representation of a credential may be a bar code a QR code or an Aztec code among other optical machine readable representations. In some instances a given optical machine readable representation of a credential only may be valid for a certain time period. In some implementations optical machine readable representations of credentials may encode data including or representing credential identifiers and any other suitable data. In other implementations optical machine readable representations of credentials may encode other identifiers that are linked to or otherwise associated with credential identifiers.

To generate an optical machine readable representation the user s client device may use any suitable technique for encoding alphanumeric data within the optical machine readable representation. For example the client device may call a function or library routine that encodes QR codes in accordance with the QR code International Organization for Standardization ISO standard ISO IEC 18004 2006 RSS Information technology Automatic identification and data capture techniques QR Code 2005 bar code symbology specification.

To initiate the validation process for an optical machine readable representation the user s client device may output an optical machine readable representation to a display coupled to the client device as shown in by the credential representation . Subsequently a validating device can scan the portion of the client device s display showing the credential representation and process the scanned credential representation to validate the credential .

The credential includes captions and an image a slider a representation for the credential and a control button .

The caption in a manner similar to the caption provides information identifying the type of the credential and the credential issuing organization. For example the caption identifies the credential as an Employee ID for Company M Incorporated. 

The image is an image of the user associated with the credential in a manner similar to the associated between the credential and the image . The caption provides the name or other identifying information or both for the user associated with the credential. For example as shown the caption provides the name of the employee associated with the credential as John Doe and the employee designation as Chief Security Officer. 

The control button provides functionality similar to the control button . For example the control button indicates that additional information corresponding to the user associated with the credential is available which is viewable upon selection of the control button by a user.

The slider which is similar to the slider enables a user to select between different representations for the credential . The client device may be configured to enable the user to select from among different representations for the credential by inputting a gesture e.g. by swiping the slider between different positions of the slider which are indicated by the dots displayed in the slider .

The first position of the slider may cause the client device to display an optical machine readable representation of the credential e.g. a quick response QR code or bar code as described with respect to the credential representation illustrated in . The second position of the slider may cause the credential management application to display the graphical representation as shown in . In addition the credential management application may output a signal such as a sound signal from a speaker of the client device or a near field communication NFC signal from a wireless transmitter coupled to the client device. The outputted signal encodes a code e.g. an alphanumeric code representing the credential . As referred to herein an alphanumeric code may be a sequence of numbers and or letters e.g. 4 to 24 characters that is associated with a credential and a user.

The credential representation provides a graphical indication that a signal for example a sound signal or an NFC signal representing the credential is being outputted.

As described herein a sound signal is an oscillation of pressure waves transmitted through the air that are modulated to encode information. Any suitable modulation scheme could be used such as for example frequency shift keying FSK or phase shift keying PSK . In some implementations the sound signal may be in the ultrasonic frequency range e.g. greater than about 20 kHz. In some implementations the sound signal may be in the audible frequency range e.g. about 20 Hz to about 20 kHz.

A sound signal representing a credential may encode data including or representing a corresponding credential identifier and any other suitable data. In addition a sound signal representing a credential may encode another identifier that is linked to or otherwise associated with a corresponding credential identifier. In some implementations a given sound signal representing a credential may only be valid for a certain time period. For example part of the data encoded in the signal may correspond to a time stamp and the credential represented by the signal may be deemed invalid if a validating device attempts to decode the data more than a predetermined amount of time after the time stamp was generated.

To generate a sound signal a client device may use any suitable technique for encoding a representation of a credential. For example the client device may call a function or library routine that encodes data into sound signals such as the Zoosh software development kit SDK by Naratte Inc. The validatee s client device can then output the sound signal representation of the credential from a speaker coupled to the client device for reception by a validating device.

An NFC signal as described herein may correspond to a set of standards e.g. ECMA 340 and ISO IEC 18092 for client devices to establish radio communication with each other by touching them together or bringing them into close proximity e.g. typically no more than a few centimeters . NFC as described herein may also include other suitable short range wireless communication protocols such as Bluetooth or ZigBee.

A client device may use any suitable technique for encoding a representation of a credential within an NFC signal such as a function or library routine. A NFC signal representing a credential may encode data including or representing a corresponding credential identifier and any other suitable data. In addition a NFC signal representing a credential may encode another identifier that is linked to or otherwise associated with a corresponding credential identifier. In some implementations a given NFC signal representing a credential may only be valid for a certain time period. For example part of the data encoded in the signal may correspond to a time stamp and the credential represented by the signal may be deemed invalid if a validating device attempts to decode the data more than a predetermined amount of time after the time stamp was generated.

As described in greater detail below with reference to a validating client device may receive and decode the signal for example by receiving the sound signal using a microphone of the validating client device or by receiving the NFC signal using a wireless receiver coupled to the validating client device.

The credential includes captions and an image a slider a representation for the credential and a control button .

The caption is similar to the caption or while the caption is similar to the caption or the image is similar to the image or and the control button is similar to the control button or .

The slider is similar to the slider or and enables a user to select different representations for the credential . For example the client device may be configured to enable the user to select from among different representations for the credential by inputting a gesture e.g. by swiping the slider between different positions of the slider which are indicated by the dots displayed in the slider .

As shown in when the user selects the third position of the slider the credential management application may display the credential representation which is an alphanumeric code e.g. 23F567 . A validating entity may enter this code into the validating client device and submit the code for validation.

As described previously the alphanumeric code may be a sequence of numbers and or letters e.g. 4 to 24 characters that is associated with a credential and a user. In some instances a given alphanumeric code may be time varying e.g. will only be valid for a certain time period . To initialize an alphanumeric code a server associates a given alphanumeric code with a credential and distributes the alphanumeric code to the appropriate client device or devices. In such implementations the alphanumeric code may be temporarily linked with the particular credential identifier on the server. Subsequently the server may validate the credential by identifying which particular credential if any the alphanumeric code is linked to and confirming that the identified credential is valid.

The UI includes components such as command buttons and a caption and a graphical indicator . As shown in these components allow the validator to use the associated electronic device to validate an optical machine readable representation for a validatee s credential such as the credential .

The command buttons and enable the validator to select from among different validation modes to validate different representations for credentials. The validator may select a command button by inputting a gesture for example by touching an area of the display that shows the selected button in the case where the display is a presence sensitive display.

Selection of a command button results in display of an associated caption and an associated graphical indication in the UI. The caption and the graphical indicator shown by the UI are based on the validator selecting the command button .

In the example shown the caption instructs the validator to Scan the QR code on the client device. Keep the QR code steady on screen and allow the camera to focus. In an example operation the validator orients a camera on his or her client device such that an optical machine readable representation for a credential e.g. a bar code or a QR code displayed on a validatee s client device is within an area of the graphical indicator displayed on the validating device. In such a case the graphical indicator may be a reticle as shown in . The reticle may indicate a field of view from a camera operatively coupled to the validating device. This reticle can be used to scan the optical machine readable representation of the credential from the relevant portion of the validatee s client device s display.

The validating device may use any suitable mechanism to scan and decode the optical machine readable representation of the credential. For example the validating device may access a function or library routine that captures and decodes QR codes and or barcodes using the camera operatively coupled to the validating device. Suitable libraries may include for example RedLaser or Zxing.

The validating device scans the QR code from the validatee s client device and inputs the scanned information into its associated memory. Then the credential management application running on the validating device processes the QR code. For example the credential management application decodes the QR code e.g. to obtain a set of alphanumeric characters and attempts to validate the credential. In some implementations the credential management application validates the credential by communicating the set of alphanumeric characters as part of a validation request to a remote validation server over a network connection.

When the server receives the validation request message it attempts to confirm that the presented representation of the credential is valid. For example the server may parse the alphanumeric code to obtain a credential identifier. The server can then access the corresponding credential using the credential identifier e.g. from a database by querying using the credential identifier . Upon retrieving the credential the server can determine whether the presented representation for the credential was valid by comparing data received in the validation request message e.g. the alphanumeric code with data associated with the retrieved credential.

Upon successful validation the server transmits to the validating device a response indicating that the representation for the credential was valid e.g. the presented alphanumeric code matches a valid alphanumeric code for the credential . In addition the server may send information regarding the credentialed user. For example the server may send some default public information that identifies the validated user. In some implementations the server may send this public information without verifying information corresponding to the validating device such as the identity of the validator associated with the validating device.

In some implementations in addition to validating the credential the server checks information associated with the validating device. For example the validation request also may include the validator s credential information or some other indication of the validator s identity which is examined and verified by the server. The server validates the validator s credential or otherwise confirms the validator s identity and determines which information regarding the validated credential can be shared with the validating device and by extension with the validator.

In some implementations the server looks up instructions that specify which information corresponding to the validated credential may be shared with the validating device depending on the identity of the validating user. The instructions may be configured by the credential management system or by the credential issuing organization associated with the validatee or by the validatee itself or by a suitable combination of one or more thereof.

Upon determining the information that may be shared based on the identification data associated with the validating device the server sends the information to the validating device. For example the instructions may specify that a subset of information associated with the validated user that is marked private may be disseminated to the particular validating user device. Accordingly the server may send the subset of the information to the validating device.

In some implementations the credential management application validates the credential offline e.g. using locally stored databases of user credentials. For example the optical machine readable representation for the credential may include a certificate associated with the client device of the user or third party presenting the optical machine readable representation for validation. Alternatively or in addition the representation for the credential may be associated with a certificate that is already stored locally at the validating device. The validating device may then compare information decoded from the optical machine readable representation with information from the certificate to determine that the optical machine readable representation is valid.

The UI includes components such as command buttons and a caption and a graphical indicator . As shown in these components allow the validator to use the associated electronic device to validate a credential such as the credential which is represented by a signal such as a sound signal or a NFC signal.

The command buttons and which are similar to the command buttons and enable the validator to select from among different validation modes to validate different representations for credentials. The caption and the graphical indicator shown by the UI are based on the validator selecting the command button .

In some implementations selection of the command button causes the UI to display the caption and an image as the graphical indicator indicating that the validating device is ready to receive or is receiving the sound signal. As shown the caption instructs the user as follows To validate a credential place phones in close proximity. The information will be transferred automatically. In an example operation the validator places a microphone coupled to the validating device such that a sound signal being output by a speaker of the validatee s client device can be received e.g. by a microphone of the validator s client device.

The sound signal encodes a representation e.g. an alphanumeric code of the validatee s credential which is received by the validating device. Then the credential management application running on the validating device processes the received signal. For example the credential management application decodes the code encoded within the sound signal to obtain a set of alphanumeric characters and attempts to validate the credential. In some implementations the credential management application validates the credential by communicating the set of alphanumeric characters as part of a validation request to a remote validation server over a network connection.

When the server receives the validation request message the server confirms whether the presented representation of the credential is valid in a manner similar to that described previously with respect to the alphanumeric representation of a credential. Upon successful validation the server sends the validating device a validation response indicating that the representation for the credential was valid and specific information regarding the validated credential as discussed previously with respect to validating an optical machine readable representation for a credential.

In some implementations a validating device may validate a set of alphanumeric characters from a sound signal locally without requiring interaction with a server. For example the sound signal may be encoded with a certificate associated with the client device of the user presenting the sound signal for validation. Alternatively or in addition the representation for the credential may be associated with a certificate that is already stored locally at the validating device. The validating device may then compare information decoded from the sound signal with information from the certificate to determine that the sound signal is valid.

In another example operation the credential representation may be an NFC signal. The validating device may receive the NFC signal at a receiver of the validating device and decode the NFC signal representing the credential to generate the set of alphanumeric characters encoded in the signal.

In some implementations the validating device may then validate the NFC signal by transmitting a validation request message to a server. The validation request message may include data corresponding to the alphanumeric characters that were encoded in the NFC signal. When the server receives the validation request message the server confirms whether the presented representation of the credential is valid in a manner similar to that described previously with respect to the alphanumeric representation of a credential.

Upon successful validation the server sends the validating device a validation response indicating that the representation for the credential was valid and specific information regarding the validated credential as discussed previously with respect to validating an optical machine readable representation for a credential.

In some implementations a validating device may validate a set of alphanumeric characters from an NFC signal locally without requiring interaction with a server. For example the NFC signal may include a certificate associated with the client device of the user presenting the NFC signal for validation. Alternatively or in addition the representation for the credential may be associated with a certificate that is already stored locally at the validating device. The validating device may then compare information decoded from the NFC signal with information from the certificate to determine that the NFC signal is valid.

The UI includes components such as command buttons and a caption an input field an input mechanism and a submit button . These components allow the validator to use the associated electronic device to validate a credential such as the credential which is represented by an alphanumeric code.

The command buttons and which are similar to the command buttons and or the command buttons and respectively enable the validator to select from among different validation modes to validate different representations for credentials. The caption the input field the input mechanism and the submit button shown by the UI are based on the validator selecting the command button . In some implementations the input mechanism is an alphanumeric keypad. The alphanumeric digits selected using the input mechanism are shown on the input field . The submit button causes the alphanumeric code entered using the input mechanism and shown on the input field to be submitted for validation

In an example operation the validatee provides an alphanumeric code representing his or her credential to the validator. For example the validator may access the validatee s employee ID credential on the validatee s client device where the employee ID includes the alphanumeric code. The validatee may provide this code to the validator by speaking the code e.g. over the telephone or in person showing the screen of the third party s client device to the user or sending a short message service SMS message to the user with the code. The validator then inputs the code using input mechanism . The code is displayed in the input field as the validator enters the code. The validator then presses the submit button .

In some implementations following the validator submitting the alphanumeric code by pressing the submit button the credential management application running on the validating device obtains the set of alphanumeric characters and attempts to validate the credential in a manner similar to that described previously with respect to the UI or the UI . In other implementations the alphanumeric code may be a randomly assigned code this is temporarily linked with the particular credential identifier on the server. In such implementations the server may validate the credential by identifying which particular credential the alphanumeric code is linked to and confirming that the identified credential is valid.

The UI includes a title an image and a caption . The title provides information identifying the type of the validated credential and the credential issuing organization. For example the title identifies the validated credential as an Employee ID for Company M Incorporated. 

The image corresponds to an image of the validatee which allows the validator to visually identify the user associated with the validated credential. In some implementations the validating device may obtain the image from a remote validation server while in some other implementations the image may be obtained from the databases that are locally stored in memory coupled to the validating device.

The caption provides some identifying information regarding the validatee. For example as shown the caption provides the name of the user associated with the validated Employee ID credential as John Doe and the employee designation as Chief Security Officer. 

As shown in the UI provides limited information regarding the validated user. In some implementations the limited information that is shown by the UI may be default or public information associated with the validated user. The public information is provided to any validating device upon successful validation of the user s credential when the validating device does not have permission to access more detailed information regarding the validatee. This may be the case for example when the validator is not known a priori to the validatee such that a trust relationship does not exist between the validatee and the validator. In some other implementations this may be the case when the credential issuing organization associated with the validatee s credential is different from the credential issuing organizations associated with the credentials held by the validator and the credential issuing organization associated with the validatee s credential does not have an agreement for sharing detailed information regarding its credentialed users with the credential issuing organization associated with the credentials held by the validator. In yet other implementations this may be the case when the validator does not have a suitable credential that may be used to establish its identity.

As described previously in some implementations the public information corresponding to the validatee is provided to the validating device by the validation server that received the validation request from the validating device for verifying the validatee s credential responsive to successful validation of the validatee s credential. The validation request includes information identifying the validating device or the validator. In addition to verifying the validatee s credential the validation server verifies the identifying information corresponding to validator or the validating device or both . The identifying information may include the validator s own credential or some other suitable information.

By verifying the validatee s credential and the validator s identifying information the validation server may determine whether some relationship exists between the validatee and the validator. For example the validation server determines whether the two users hold credentials issued by the same credential issuing organization.

Upon determining the relationship between the validatee and the validator the validation server can select what information to send to the validating device responsive to successful validation of the validatee s credential. In some implementations the validation server selects the information based on instructions configured by the validatee s credential issuing organization. For example the validatee s credential issuing organization may stipulate that only the validatee s name official designation and representative image may be sent to any validator s client device when the validator is not associated with the same credential issuing organization. This may be the case for example when the validator is associated with a different credential issuing organization or the validation request does not include identifying information associated with the validator or the validating device.

Following the stipulation by the validatee s credential issuing organization the validation server sends only the validatee s name official designation and representative image to the validating device as shown by the UI .

As described previously in some implementations the validation request may not include any identifying information corresponding to the validator or the validating device. Consequently in such cases the validation server does not attempt to verify the identifying information corresponding to the validator or the validating device. Instead upon verifying the validatee s credential the validation server simply sends the default public information associated with the validated credential for example as stipulated by the example instructions above.

The UI includes a title an image a caption and a control button . The UI is largely similar to the UI and provides the same default or public information associated with the validatee. The title the image and the caption are similar to the title the image and the caption respectively.

However as an additional feature that is different from the UI the control button included in the UI enables the validator to access more detailed information about the validatee upon selecting the control button . The additional information is provided to the validating device following successful validation of the user s credential when the validating device or the validator or both has the requisite permission to access more detailed information regarding the validatee. This may be the case for example when the validatee has configured the validated credential to share the validatee s private information with the particular validator who may be known to the validatee beforehand and is trusted by the validatee. In some implementations this may be the case when the credential issuing organization associated with the validatee s credential is the same as a credential issuing organization that has issued a credential to the validator. In yet other implementations this may be the case when the credential issuing organization associated with the validatee s credential and a different credential issuing organization that has issued a credential to the validator have an agreement for sharing detailed information regarding each other s credentialed users for example the two credential issuing organizations may be the employers of the respective entities and they may share a business relationship.

In some implementations the validation server provides the private information corresponding to the validatee only after verifying the validator s credential or other appropriate identifying information corresponding to the validator which is included as part of the validation request. In such implementations if the validation request does not include suitable identifying information corresponding to the validator or if the validator s identifying information cannot be successfully verified then the private information corresponding to the validatee is not sent to the validator upon successful validation of the validatee s credential. Instead the validation server may send the validatee s public information as described previously.

On the other hand upon successfully verifying the validatee s credential and the validator s identifying information in some implementations the validation server may determine whether some relationship exists between the validatee and the validator. For example the validation server may determine whether the two users hold credentials issued by the same credential issuing organization or whether the credential issuing organizations associated with credentials held by the two users even if different have an established agreement for sharing their users private credential information. Following an affirmative determination the validation server may send to the validating device some default private information corresponding to the validatee. The default private information may be based on information that is configured for sharing for example by the validatee s credential issuing organization.

In some implementations upon successfully verifying the validatee s credential and the validator s identifying information the validation server looks up instructions configured by the validatee s credential issuing organization to determine whether private information corresponding to the validatee may be shared with the validator.

In some implementations the private information that is shared may differ depending on the validator. For example the validatee s credential issuing organization may stipulate that a first subset of the validatee s private information may be sent to any validator s client device when the validator hold a credential associated with the same credential issuing organization while a second subset of the validatee s private information may be sent to any validator s client device when the validator holds a credential associated with another credential issuing organization with whom the validatee s credential issuing organization has an agreement for sharing information. The first and the second subsets may include different information corresponding to the validatee. While only two subsets of information are described for exemplary purposes any suitable number of subsets and the associated stipulations may be implemented.

For example the validated credential may be an employee ID issued by the validatee s employer while the validator may be an employee of a different organization that is collaborating with the validatee s employer. In this case the first subset of the private information may include among other suitable information the validatee s contact information such as email address office location and work phone name of the validatee s supervisor and permissions accorded to the validatee for accessing various resources provided by the validatee s employer. The first subset of information may be shared with a colleague of the validatee who is employed by the same employer e.g. the colleague holds an employee badge issued by the same employer . On the other hand the second subset may include among other suitable information the validatee s contact information such as email address office location and work phone and permissions accorded to the validatee for accessing various resources provided by the validator s employer. The second subset of information may be disseminated to a validator who is employed by the other organization.

Based on the stipulation by the validatee s credential issuing organization on whether private information may be shared or what subset of the private information may be disseminated to the particular validator or both the validation server sends the determined private information to the validating device. The availability of the private information is indicated by the control button shown by the UI .

The UI is shown after the validator has successfully validated the user s credential and successfully verified its own identity and when the validator is allowed to access the private information corresponding to the validatee that is shown by UI . Accordingly the UI is displayed on the validating device along with the control button indicating that additional information corresponding to the validatee is available. When the validator selects the control button for example by touching an area of the display that shows the control button when the display is presence sensitive the UI may transition to the UI on the display. As discussed in the preceding section the UI may exhibit a subset of the private information associated with the validatee.

The UI includes a title a control button and private information associated with the validatee which includes as shown the validatee s employment duration email address office location work phone and information regarding permission to access Wireless Fidelity Wi Fi resources.

The title provides information identifying the user associated with the validated credential and the credential issuing organization. For example the title identifies the user John Doe with the associated credential being issued by Company M. In the example shown the credential is an employee ID that is issued to John Doe who is an employee of Company M. 

Selection of the control button enables the validator to return to the UI . For example after examining the private information shown by the UI the validator may select the control button for example by touching an area of the display that shows the control button when the display is presence sensitive and the UI transitions back to the UI in response.

In the example shown the control button includes a graphical checkmark. However in other implementations the control button may include different information. For example in some implementations the control button may include the text Done .

As described previously the private information returned to the validator may differ based on the identity of the validator and or credentials held by the validator. Continuing with the above example in some implementations the private information as shown is provided to the validating device when the validator is also an employee of Company M. However if the validator is not an employee of Company M such that the credential issuing organization associated with the validator is different from Company M then the private information shown by the UI may be different. For example the Wi Fi access information may not be present.

The system includes client device devices and that are associated with users and respectively a first credential issuing organization that includes an administrator and an associated processing system a second credential issuing organization that includes an administrator and an associated processing system a network and a server . Communication between the client devices and is indicated by . UIs and are displayed on the client devices and respectively while UI is displayed on the processing system . The UI includes a graphical indicator .

The user may be a validator that attempts to validate a credential associated with the user who is the validatee. As illustrated in when the validator attempts to access the validatee s credential the user operates the client device the validating device to validate a credential presented by the validatee . As part of validating the validatee s credential the validating device presents a validation screen on the UI shown on the display coupled to the validating device . A representation of the validatee s credential may be presented by the UI shown on the display coupled to the client device .

The UIs and may be displayed and managed by instances of the credential management application that are running on the respective client devices. The instances of the credential management application are part of the credential management system or the credential issuing organization or both and are configured to communicate with other entities in the system such as with the server over the network .

In some implementations each of the users and and their respective devices and may be associated with a different credential issuing organization. For example user may be issued a credential by credential issuing organization and the credential may be managed by the instance of the credential management application running on client device . User may be issued a credential by credential issuing organization with the credential being managed by the instance of the credential management application running on client device .

Once the validating device has successfully accessed the representation of the validatee s credential for example using signal transmission as indicated by the UIs and the credential management application running on the validating device may present the validatee s credential or a representation of or an identifier for the validatee s credential to the credential management system for validation. In one implementation the validating device communicates the credential representation to the server in a validation request along with its own identifying information.

In some implementations the server is a validation server that is managed by the credential management system. The server validates the credential received from the validating device and also verifies the identity of the validator that is included in the validation request. Following successful verification of the validatee s credential and the validator s identity the server determines what information corresponding to the validatee may be sent to the validating device .

In some implementations the server makes this determination based on instructions configured by the credential issuing organization . In addition to communicating with client devices and over the network the server communicates via network with the credential issuing organization . The credential issuing organization may include an administrator who manages the operations of the credential issuing organization using the processing system .

Based on determining the information corresponding to the validatee that may be sent to the validating device the server sends a response to the validating device with the determined information. As discussed previously the information that is shared may be the validatee s public information or private information depending on the identity of the validator and or the credentials held by the validator in view of the instructions configured by the credential issuing organization . In some implementations the extent of public or private information that is shared also varies based on the identity of the validator .

In operation the server manages and or stores one or more credentials associates users and groups of users with appropriate credentials and provides the credentials to users client devices and or processing systems e.g. operated by credential authorities for validation. The server can be any suitable computer or collection of computers executing software capable of managing distributing and or validating representations of credentials for users and groups of users via a network as described herein.

Credentials user accounts group accounts and administrative accounts can be stored in a database e.g. MySQL PostgreSQL MS SQL Server MongoDB or other suitable data structure that can be accessed by the server . In some implementations the server may access the stored credentials and or user accounts via web services such as representational state transfer REST style services.

As an initial step the server creates a credential based on input provided by a credential issuing organization e.g. an employer . In some implementations multiple different credential issuing organizations e.g. different entities and or organizations may issue credentials using the same server . The credential may include a variety of information such as a credential identifier e.g. a number or alphanumeric character string that uniquely identifies a credential an indication of the grantor of the credential information about the user to whom the credential issuing organization granted the credential an indication of one or more permissions granted by the credential issuing organization to the user a description of an event or location associated with the credential and or third party instructions e.g. instructions governing what information associated with the user may be disseminated to third party users that request validation of the user s credential .

In some implementations the instructions may include information identifying a type classification or rank of the validator s credential that can be enabled to access private information associated with the validated credential. For example the private information associated with an employee badge for a company may be shared with the validator when the validator s credential is i an employee badge of the same company and or ii a manager or supervisor badge associated with another employer that is a business partner of the validatee s company.

Alternatively or in addition the instructions may include information identifying particular third parties e.g. names credential identifiers and or user identifiers who may access the validatee s private information. In some implementations the instructions also may include a temporal condition that identifies one or more time periods during which the sharing of private information is enabled. For example the private information associated with the validated credential may only be accessible during regular business hours. During other time periods only the public information associated with the validated credential may be accessible.

In some implementations the server may present a suitable interface to the credential issuing organization for creation of credentials. For example the server may present a web interface through which the credential issuing organization can interact using a web browser. In other implementations the server may be directly accessible via a graphical user interface or an application running on a mobile device. Any suitable interface can be used that enables the creation and storage of credentials and user accounts. In addition or as an alternative to creation of credentials by credential issuing organizations credentials may be created at the request of registered users through a web based or other interface or through any other suitable mechanism such as sending email or short message service SMS transmissions to credential issuing organizations. In some implementations registered users may be able to create credentials by use of an application running on a client device.

The interface for the creation of credentials may provide a credential issuing organization the ability to associate conditions with the credentials such as instructions for sharing private information associated with the credentials as discussed above. For example the interface may show a hierarchical menu of potential third parties who can access the private information associated with the credential and allow the credential issuing organization to identify the desired third parties. These potential third parties may be identified for example by name and or by a type of credential the third party must possess to access the private information. For example the potential third parties may include particular individuals such as John Doe and or particular credentials such as Corporate Security Council Badge or Company M Employee Badge. 

In some implementations a credential issued by the credential issuing organization may be represented as any suitable data object such as an eXtensible Markup Language XML or JavaScript Object Notation JSON object. In such implementations the private information associated with the credential may be identified within the JSON object. In some implementations information that is not identified as private may be considered as public information. However in other implementations both the private and public information may be explicitly identified.

The following example shows a sample JSON object for a credential which includes a badge for a user named John Doe associated with organization Company M. The private information in the credential is indicated with the tag private. 

The credential may include different types of private information which are shown as different attributes in the JSON object associated with the credential. For example in the exemplary JSON object shown below the private information includes information on the user s department within the company indicated as an attribute named group which is of type string with a value Administration. The private information also includes the name of the user s supervisor indicated as an attribute named supervisor which is of type string with a value Jane Smith. A validator who is enabled to access the above private information may determine that the user John Doe is in the Administration department in Company M and the user s supervisor is Jane Smith.

The above may be considered as detailed personal information about the user associated with the credential that is private. The private information also may include user authentication log in information which may be verified by third party applications when the user attempts to access resources associated with the third party applications. For example the exemplary JSON object below includes the user s login name for accessing a particular resource indicated as an attribute named login name which is of type string with a value john.doe. As another example the private information includes an access control identifier shown as attribute access control id that is of type number and has a numerical value 1600341998. The user s login name and the access control identifier may correspond to different resources. For example the login name may be used to access a web based email account while the access control id may be used to unlock a door for accessing a conference room at Company M s premises.

The other information included in the exemplary JSON object below such as the user s name e.g. John Doe the user s title e.g. Chief Security Officer and the organization e.g. Company M may be public information. The JSON object also may include other fields or attributes and their associated values which are indicated in the example shown below by ellipsis i.e. . . . .

The server also may present an interface so that users and or credential issuing organizations can create user accounts for individual users and groups of users. For example the server may present a web interface through which credential issuing organizations can interact via a Web browser. Additionally or alternatively the server may be directly accessible via a graphical user interface or an application on a mobile device. User accounts may be stored in a table or collection of tables in a database or in any other suitable data structure accessible by the server . The user accounts may include a variety of information such as user name user title user identifier e.g. a number or character string that uniquely identifies a user one or more unique keys for the user e.g. alphanumeric codes that can be used for encryption and or decryption and or the address es of one or more client devices owned by or otherwise associated with the user. Likewise group accounts may be stored in a table collection of tables or any other suitable data structure. Certain individual users may be identified as belonging to a group by linking an entry for the user to an entry for the group for example by use of a linking table. The group accounts may include a variety of information such as a group name group identifier e.g. a number or character string that uniquely identifies a group and a description of the group. In addition or as an alternative to creation of user accounts and groups by grantors user accounts and groups can be created at the request of potential users through a web based or other interface or through any other suitable means such as sending email or SMS to grantors. In some implementations the potential users may be able to create user accounts by use of an application running on a client device.

As an example a Mr. John Smith may request a new user account from the server using an application executing on his client device. The server can then create database entries representing a user account for Mr. Smith. A credential issuing organization could then create a row in another table for a group identified as employees of Company X. The grantor and or server could then link the database entry for Mr. Smith to the group account for Company X through use of a linking table.

Once credentials and users or groups of users have been created credential issuing organizations and or users can associate the credentials with users or groups of users. For example the server may present a web interface through which grantors can interact via a Web browser to link a given credential to a given user or group of users. In other aspects the server may be directly accessible via a graphical user interface or an application on a mobile device. Credentials may be associated with users or groups of users for example by generating a credential identifier for a given user or group of users and associating the credential identifier with the user or group of users by storing an entry for the credential identifier as a database entry related to a credential. In addition to association of credentials to users and groups of users by grantors registered users also may request that certain users or groups of users be associated with certain credentials through a web based or other interface or through any other suitable means such as sending email or SMS transmissions to grantors. In some implementations users may be able to associate their user accounts with one or more credentials by use of an application running on a client device. Furthermore the server also may notify the users that they have been associated with the credential s for example by pushing notifications to the respective users client devices. Such notifications may include the credential identifier and or a key for the user.

As described herein a key may be any suitable alphanumeric code that is unique to a given user. For example a key may be a symmetric key or shared secret between the client device and the server that can be used to maintain a private information link. In other implementations the key may be a private key and or public key that can be used with a public key cryptographic system. The key may be of any suitable length such as for example 80 bits 128 bits or 256 bits. In some implementations an application executing on the client device may have the key pre installed or may receive a key when a user first runs the application and creates a user account associated with the application or may receive a key when a user logs into the application from the client device. In some implementations the client device may receive the key from the server in a key exchange e.g. a Diffie Hellman key exchange .

Once credentials have been associated with appropriate user and or group accounts the credentials can then be distributed to client devices for the appropriate users via the network . For example the network may be a local area network LAN and or a wide area network WAN e.g. the Internet. In some versions the server may communicate with the client devices via SMS or multimedia messaging service MMS . The server may access user accounts in a database to locate the appropriate users client devices.

Client devices can receive the credentials associated with their respective users and store them in any suitable memory for later retrieval. A given user may be associated with multiple different credentials. Furthermore some or all of the credentials associated with a user may be accessible on a user s client device . In particular software applications executing on the client devices and can retrieve the credentials associated with users and respectively so they can be used for generating and presenting a representation of the credential e.g. to a validation entity for validation . The client devices may be any type of computing device including but not limited to a mobile phone smart phone personal digital assistant PDA music player e book reader tablet computer laptop or desktop computer or other stationary or portable device that includes one or more processors and non transitory computer readable storage media. The software application can be written in any suitable programming language such as for example Objective C C Java etc.

In some implementations the instructions for accessing private information associated with credentials are enforced locally at the client device without interaction with the server . In such implementations the credentials and any instructions associated with the credentials may be stored locally at the client device . When the validator attempts to display a validated credential the credential management application running on the validating device identifies any condition associated with the validated credential and determines whether the conditions have been satisfied for example the identity of validator has been verified and a determination made that the validator is enabled to access the private information associated with the validated credential before allowing any private information associated with the for the credential to be displayed. If the conditions have not been satisfied the credential management application may display on the validating device only the public information associated with the validated credential.

In the above implementations the client device may validate the representation for the credential provided by the client device without requiring interaction with the server . For example the representation for the credential provided by the client device may include a certificate associated with the validatee e.g. a public key infrastructure PKI certificate . The credential management application running on the client device may then decode the certificate from the representation of the credential and determine that the certificate associated with the validatee is valid e.g. by accessing a PKI system and that the credential represented by the representation satisfies the condition associated with the credential.

In other implementations the server may be involved in validating the representation for the credential provided by the client device . For example the validating device may send the representation of the credential associated with the client device to the server over the network for validation. In such implementations the server also may verify the identity of the validator and determine whether the public information or the private information or both is sent to the validating device.

In addition to enabling identity validation and sharing of public or private information as described above a credential issued to a user such as user by a credential issuing organization e.g. using the credential management system also may confer certain privileges to the user. For example the credential may enable the user to access one or more physical or logical resources under the control of the credential issuing organization. In some implementations presentation of a representation of the credential to a validating device at a physical resource e.g. a locked door may enable the user to unlock the door.

For example while shown in as a person in some implementations the validator can be any agent capable of validating representations of credentials presented by users. In one implementation the validator may be a software application executed on a processing device for managing a door unlocking system. The software application processes a representation for a credential received from a client device decodes the representation to generate an alphanumeric set of characters transmits the alphanumeric set of characters to the server and receives a response from the server indicating whether the user associated with the client device is allowed to access the resource managed by the validator . The software application could then control a door lock and or an automated gate to permit user to enter.

In a manner similar to the above various different techniques may be employed to enable the user to use a credential to gain access to a logical resource including for example logging into a computer an application or a Wi Fi network.

In scenarios like the above where a user s credential is used to gain access to a physical or logical resource access to the physical or logical resource may be regulated by a third party application e.g. an application controlled by the credential issuing organization . The third party application may rely on the credential management application to validate the user s credential and responsive to successful validation pass it certain data relevant to the validated credential. For example if the resource is a locked door controlled by an access control system the access control system may rely on receiving a unique identifier associated with the user in order to unlock the door for the user. Similarly if the resource is a logical resource that is password protected a third party application that regulates access to the logical resource may rely on receiving a unique user name and password for the user in order to be able to provide the user access to the logical resource. This data that the third party application relies on receiving from the credential management application may be considered private because it is related to access control systems and is not to be made widely available. Consequently this data is not to be shared with all users and or applications that validate the user s credential using the credential management application. Rather it is only to be shared with certain users and or applications that are associated with the credential issuing organization.

As discussed above as part of validating a credential the identity of the validating device also gets verified and a determination is made whether the validating device is authorized to receive the private information associated with the validatee e.g. an access control identifier to unlock a door or a login username and password to log in to a web based email account . The private information associated with the validatee is sent to the validating device or an associated third party application to enable the physical or logical access only upon an affirmative determination regarding the authorization of the validating device to receive this private information.

At the validating device receives a representation for a credential of a user. For example the client device may be the validating device that receives a credential representation from the client device where the credential representation is associated with user . In some implementations the validating device may receive the credential using any of the mechanisms that are described with respect to UIs or .

At the validating device sends a request to a validation server the request including the user credential information and identification data for the validating device. For example when the validating device receives the credential representation associated with the user the credential management application running on the validating device processes the received credential representation. As discussed previously in some implementations the credential management application decodes the received credential representation to obtain a set of alphanumeric characters corresponding to the credential to be validated.

In some implementations the credential management application executed on the validating device sends a validation request to a remote validation server such as to server over the network . The validation request includes the received credential representation or the decoded set of alphanumeric characters or some other suitable information corresponding to the credential to be validated. In addition the validation request includes identification data associated with the validating device. The identification data may be a credential of the validator associated with the validating device such as the validator .

In some other implementations the credential management application executed on the validating device performs an off line validation of the received credential representation. In such implementations the credential management application does not send a request to any remote validation server. Instead the credential management application accesses databases of credential information that are stored in local storage coupled to the validating device and validates the received credential representation based on the information available in the local storage.

Continuing with the description of the implementations where a request is sent to a validation server at the validation server receives the request from the validating device. For example the validation server receives a validation request from the credential management application running on the validating device with the request including information corresponding to a credential associated with user and also identification data e.g. a credential associated with user .

The validation server validates the user credential at . For example the server examines the credential representation or the decoded set of alphanumeric characters or some other suitable information corresponding to the credential to be validated which is received as part of the validation request from the validating device . Based on the examination the validation server determines whether the corresponding credential is valid i.e. the credential is a genuine credential that has been issued by a bona fide credential issuing organization and that the credential has not expired.

In some implementations the validation server is able to determine the validity of a credential only when the associated credential issuing organization has registered with the credential management system that manages the validation server and provided the credential management system with information regarding credentials issued by the credential issuing organization. In such implementations the information provided by the credential issuing organization is stored by the credential management system such that the information is accessible to the validation server for use during validating credentials. For example the information provided by the credential issuing organization may be stored in storage coupled to the validation server.

At the validation server also verifies the identification data for the validating device. For example the validation server verifies the identification data associated with the validating device that is provided as part of the validation request received from the validating device.

In some implementations the identification data may be another credential that is associated with the validator . In such implementations the validation server verifies the identification data by validating the credential associated with the validator in a manner similar to the validation of the validatee s credential representation. Alternatively or in addition the identification data may be a user identifier associated with the validator .

In some implementations the validation request from the validating device may include an indication of a user account associated with the validator from which the request is being sent. For example the validator may be logged in to his or her account with the credential management application on the validating device. The validation request that is then sent includes information identifying the validator s account.

Upon receiving the validation request the validation server may determine based on information about the validator in the validator s user account that is accessible to the server e.g. the validator s user account may be stored in memory coupled to the server whether the validator is authorized to access the private information corresponding to the validatee. For example the validation server may determine if the validator s user account includes a credential from the same credential issuing organization as the credential being validated. If an affirmative determination is made the validation server may allow the validator to access the private information associated with the credential being validated.

Following validating the user s credential representation and verifying the identification data associated with the validating device at the validation server accesses instructions regarding what user information to share with the validating device. For example the validation server looks up instructions configured by the credential issuing organization associated with the validatee that specifies what information corresponding to the validatee is public and what information is private.

At the validation server determines the user information that is to be shared with the validating device based on the accessed instructions. For example the instructions configured by the credential issuing organization associated with the validator may specify which of the public or private information can be shared with the validator . The instructions may specify that if the identification data associated with the validator cannot be verified or is not recognized by the credential issuing organization associated with the validatee for example when a relationship does not exist between the credential issuing organization associated with the validatee and a credential issuing organization associated with a credential held by the validator then the public information corresponding to the validatee may be sent to the validating device . However if the identification data associated with the validator is verified and recognized by the credential issuing organization associated with the validatee then the private information corresponding to the validatee may be sent to the validating device .

As discussed previously in some implementations the instructions also may specify the amount of public or private information that may be shared with the validating device. In some implementations the public information may be a subset of the private information. For example the validated credential may be an employee badge as shown by the UI with the public information being the validatee s name and company designation. The private information may include the validatee s name and company designation i.e. the public information and in addition it may include the validatee s contact information and permissions for accessing various resources as shown by the UI .

The validation server sends the determined user information to the validating device at . For example in one implementation the validation server may not successfully verify the identification information associated with the validating device that is received with the validation request. In such an event the validation server sends the public information corresponding to the validatee to the validating device following instructions configured by the credential issuing organization associated with the validatee. In another implementation validation server may successfully verify the identification information associated with the validating device and determine that the instructions configured by the credential issuing organization associated with the validatee specify that the validatee s private information may be disseminated to the validating device. In such an event the validation server sends the private information corresponding to the validatee to the validating device .

At user information is received from the validation server and at the validating device in response to the request. For example the validating device may receive the public or private information corresponding to the validatee from the validation server following successful validation of the credential representation associated with the validatee and upon verification of the identification data associated with the validating device .

The validating device processes the received user information and performs one or more actions based on the processing at . For example the credential management application running on the validating device processes the user information corresponding to the validatee that is received from the validation server and performs one or more of the following actions.

In some implementations the credential management application displays the user information corresponding to the validatee on a UI shown on the display coupled to the validating device . The user information received from the validation server may be the public information corresponding to the validatee which may be shown by a UI similar to the UI . Alternatively the user information received from the validation server may be private information corresponding to the validatee which may be shown by a UI similar to the UIs and .

In some implementations the credential management application examines the information corresponding to the validatee and determines whether the validatee may be granted access to a resource managed by the credential management application. For example the credential management application may be associated with a third party application for locking unlocking a door that controls access to a restricted area. The private information received from the validation server may indicate that the validatee is authorized to access the restricted area e.g. the information may be a unique authorization code that unlocks the door to the restricted area . Upon processing the information the credential management application directs the third party application to unlock the door to allow the validatee access. Alternatively the credential management application may give the third party application the unique authorization code required for the door to be unlocked.

As another example the credential management application may be associated with a third party application for controlling access to a web based messaging system. The private information received from the validation server may include a login name and password for the validatee to log in to the messaging system. Upon processing the information the credential management application directs the third party application to allow the validatee access to the web based messaging system. Alternatively the credential management application may give the third party application the username and password to log the user into the messaging system.

In some implementations the decision regarding whether to grant the validatee access to the physical or logical resource may not be made by the credential management application itself. Instead the credential management application may forward the private information corresponding to the validatee that is received from the server to the third party application associated with the resource. The third party application may examine the private information and following such examination make a determination as to whether the private information authenticates the validatee for accessing the resource. Based on this determination the third party application may grant or deny the validatee access to the resource.

In some implementations the determination whether to grant the validatee access to a resource managed by the credential management application may be made in addition to displaying information associated with the validatee using a UI shown on a display coupled to the validating device. For example the validating device may show the public information corresponding to the validatee while processing the private information for granting access. In some implementations the credential management application may not display the private information while in other implementations the private information may be displayed.

The features described can be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or in computer hardware firmware software or in combinations of them. The apparatus can be implemented in a computer program product tangibly embodied in an information carrier e.g. in a machine readable storage device for execution by a programmable processor and method steps can be performed by a programmable processor executing a program of instructions to perform functions of the described implementations by operating on input data and generating output. The described features can be implemented advantageously in one or more computer programs that are executable on a programmable system including at least one programmable processor coupled to receive data and instructions from and to transmit data and instructions to a data storage system at least one input device and at least one output device. A computer program is a set of instructions that can be used directly or indirectly in a computer to perform a certain activity or bring about a certain result. A computer program can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module component subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment.

Suitable processors for the execution of a program of instructions include by way of example both general and special purpose microprocessors and the sole processor or one of multiple processors of any kind of computer. Generally a processor will receive instructions and data from a read only memory or a random access memory or both. The elements of a computer may include a processor for executing instructions and one or more memories for storing instructions and data. Generally a computer will also include or be operatively coupled to communicate with one or more mass storage devices for storing data files such devices include magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and optical disks. Storage devices suitable for tangibly embodying computer program instructions and data include all forms of non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices such as EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks. The processor and the memory can be supplemented by or incorporated in ASICs application specific integrated circuits .

To provide for interaction with a user the features can be implemented on a computer having a display device such as a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a touchscreen and or a keyboard and a pointing device such as a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer.

The features can be implemented in a computer system that includes a back end component such as a data server or that includes a middleware component such as an application server or an Internet server or that includes a front end component such as a client computer having a graphical user interface or an Internet browser or any combination of them. The components of the system can be connected by any form or medium of digital data communication such as a communication network. Examples of communication networks include e.g. a LAN a WAN and the computers and networks forming the Internet.

The computer system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a network such as a network described above. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other.

A number of implementations have been described. Nevertheless it will be understood that various modifications may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosure. Accordingly other implementations are within the scope of the following claims.

