---

title: Notifying a user utilizing smart alerting techniques
abstract: A configuration associated with an electronic message may be received, the electronic message containing a keyword. Historical notification information comprising information about multiple electronic messages may be accessed to determine one or more related electronic messages. A number of related electronic messages may be determined by comparing the keyword to the historical notification information. An electronic notification may be generated based at least in part on the configuration information, the electronic message, and the multiple related electronic messages.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09336674&OS=09336674&RS=09336674
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 09336674
owner_city: Reno
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131202
---
Companies e.g. electronic marketplace providers often manage complex electronic systems that require frequent monitoring troubleshooting and maintenance by personnel e.g. a technician . Due to the volume of issues that may arise from these electronic systems it is often difficult to coordinate efforts between multiple technicians responsible for resolving these issues. Additionally in order to achieve adequate coverage and efficient use of time a technician may operate on an on call basis making it difficult for him to be notified when there is an issue requiring his attention. For example the technician may be away from his computer e.g. sleeping when issues arise. Furthermore newly received issues may exhibit similar or even identical attributes as one or more previously experienced issues. Current techniques for notifying the technician of pending issues include sending a message to the technician but information about previous resolutions of similar problems is not accessed or utilized. Thus prior techniques for notifying personnel of the existence of an issue lack efficiency and fail to leverage learned resolutions in light of previously experienced issues.

In the following description various embodiments of the present disclosure will be described. For purposes of explanation specific configurations and details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments. However it will also be apparent to one skilled in the art that the embodiments may be practiced without the specific details. Furthermore well known features may be omitted or simplified in order not to obscure the embodiment being described.

Some or all of the process described may be performed under the control of one or more computer systems configured with specific computer executable instructions and may be implemented as code e.g. executable instructions one or more computer programs or one or more applications executing collectively on one or more processors by hardware or combinations thereof. The code may be stored on a non transitory computer readable storage medium for example in the form of a computer program including a plurality of instructions executable by one or more processors. The computer readable storage medium may be non transitory.

Techniques described herein are directed to systems and methods to enable a user of an electronic device to utilize a smart alerting system to receive electronic alerts. In accordance with at least one embodiment a user e.g. a technician may utilize a smart alerting service to receive and process electronic messages. The technician may configure an electronic device to recognize certain electronic messages as requiring treatment different from the treatment of other electronic messages. For instance the technician may specify that emails texts or other electronic messages from a particular sender are to be processed by the smart alerting service. Other identification settings may be utilized including but not limited to identifying an electronic message by addressee by subject line analysis by message body analysis or by any suitable method for distinguishing one electronic message from another. In at least one embodiment the technician may specify further configuration settings that enable the notification to be distinguishable by other means for example utilizing audio vibration and or text to speech settings.

As used herein the term delivery workflow is intended to indicate a set of instructions or operations utilized to deliver route a message to a user e.g. the workflow may indicate each or a subset of all instructions involved in the routing and or delivery of the message . As used herein the term resolution workflow is intended to indicate instructions executed or operations taken during attempts to resolve a technical problem associated with a service provider.

In at least one embodiment on receipt of an electronic message the smart alerting service may retrieve configuration information in order to apply filters to identify an electronic message requiring smart alert processing. As used herein configuration information may include but is not limited to delivery workflow s indicating routing instructions group membership information one click options audio and tactile associations maximum related message options and text to speech options. In some examples utilizing configuration information the smart alerting service may identify an electronic message as one requiring smart alert processing. In such examples a delivery workflow may be identified indicating that the electronic message is to be routed to a particular location e.g. a smart alert inbox accessible to a particular cell phone . Once routed the smart alerting service may store at least a portion of if not the entire electronic message. In at least one case the electronic message may be stored locally on the electronic device. In at least one example the smart alerting service may cause at least one configured audible or tactile response to occur upon delivery of the electronic message to the particular location.

In at least one embodiment the smart alerting service on receipt of a new electronic message may analyze the newly received electronic message for keywords. These keywords may be compared with keywords found in previously received electronic messages. In cases where similar electronic messages are discovered as a result of the comparison information related to the similar electronic message may be included attached or otherwise associated with the newly received electronic message and ultimately made available to the technician.

In at least one embodiment the smart alerting service may forward received electronic messages to other users e.g. other technicians within a configured group. In some cases the system may mark the message as active or inactive to distinguish what action s may be taken on receipt. Messages marked as active may result in both storage and actual notification of a technician while messages marked inactive may result in storage only. In this manner the smart alerting service enables the synchronization of resolution efforts between a group of users while leveraging information gathered from the processing of previously received electronic messages.

In at least one example a technician responsible for managing components of an electronic marketplace may enter configuration information indicating that he wishes to be notified on receipt of an electronic message from technical group companyA.com. Additionally the technician may specify that electronic messages from technical group companyA.com are to be delivered to a smart alerting inbox accessible to his cell phone the inbox entitled Work Alerts. The technician may indicate that he wishes a particular musical tune to be played on receipt of such a message. Additionally the technician may select a series of vibrations to occur before during or after the musical tune. Further the technician may indicate that he wishes a portion of the alert text to be read aloud using text to speech technology. At some point post configuration the technician may receive an electronic message from technical group companyA.com. The message may be identified through configuration information and routed to the Work Alerts inbox. Once received the smart alerting service may cause the musical tune Ode to Joy to play on the device while simultaneously causing the device to vibrate three times. Additionally the smart alerting service may cause a portion of the message to be read aloud using text to speech technology. For instance the technician may hear the words Attention Zero purchases have been made in the electronic marketplace in the last 10 minutes. In this manner the technician may be alerted to a potential issue regarding the electronic marketplace though he may not actively be operating his cell phone at the time the alert is received.

Though illustrative examples are provided including technicians responsible for managing electronic marketplace systems one reasonably skilled in the art should appreciate that other professions may utilize the smart alerting service. For instance on call doctors may act on emergency messages utilizing a smart alerting service. On receipt of a message configuration information may be identified in a similar manner as described above. The received message may be analyzed for keywords and compared to historical records of previously received emergency medical messages. Multiple doctors identified as a group may be notified utilizing the smart alerting system by synchronizing the message among members of the medical group. In this manner an increase in coverage may be achieved through increasing the likelihood of response.

Referring now to the drawings in which like reference numerals represent like parts. illustrates an example flow for implementing a smart alerting service in accordance with at least one embodiment. The flow may begin at where message may be received on an electronic device for instance a cell phone . The smart alerting service on receipt of message may retrieve configuration information at . The configuration information can be stored on the same device as the smart alerting service or remote of this device. As discussed previously configuration information may include information identifying attributes of message . These attributes may indicate whether or not message is to be processed as a smart alert and routed to an inbox e.g. smart alert inbox located on the cell phone . Further configuration data may also indicate an association to a particular musical tune a particular series of vibrations and or text to speech alerting.

In at least one embodiment using traditional linguistic analysis techniques smart alerting service may analyze the subject line and or the body of message to determine keywords. At smart alerting service may query data store a local data store of cell phone and or service provider computers N connected to any suitable network s in order to determine related messages having been previously received. By way of example only data store and or service provider computers may individually or collectively manage a collection of previously received messages and issue resolution information corresponding to the previously received messages. If a single previously received message is found to be associated with a similar or identical keyword as may be found in message the single previously received message information may be associated with message at . If multiple previously received messages are found to be associated with similar or identical keyword s as may be found in message a message identifier e.g. a work order number for each of the previously received messages may be associated with message at . Alternatively the previously received message may be ranked based at least in part on the strength of similarity between keywords of message and the previously received message. In some embodiments a subset of the previously received messages e.g. the top 5 highest scored previously received messages the first 5 previously received messages found with similar identical keyword s as message ranked or unranked may be associated with message . In at least one example a message identifier e.g. a work order number of the single previously received message may be inserted into the text of message . At smart alerting service may then cause message to be stored in data store and or service provider computers N . In at least one example message may be routed by smart alerting service to an appropriate smart alert inbox at as configured by the user.

In at least one embodiment message may be routed by smart alerting service to inbox smart alert inbox . Once received smart alerting service may present an alert to the user of device at . On delivery of the alert to smart alert inbox smart alerting service may cause a configured musical tune to play vibration to occur and text to display on the display screen of device .

In accordance with at least one embodiment a button may be provided indicating one or more related alerts. Upon selection of button a new screen may be displayed similar to related alert screen . The related alert screen may display an ordered list of the related alert identifiers as determined by the keyword comparison discussed above. The related alert screen displayed in indicates that alert KNT234 was determined to be the alert most related to the current alert with alert CHR1215 and alert ZZT2267 being each comparatively less related respectively. If the user has previously enabled one click options via configuration information then related alert screen may include hyperlinks indicated by the alert identifiers. If a user were to select one such hyperlink the user might be transferred to an internet browser application where the URL corresponding to the selected hyperlink may be loaded. In at least one example selection of one of the hyperlinks might result in the user being displayed in an Internet browser text corresponding to the select related alert. This text may include at least one of a problem description a description of steps taken during resolution attempts and a listing of any commands executed in any of the resolution attempts.

Thus in accordance with embodiments utilizing a smart alerting service systems and methods are provided for enabling a user to receive electronic alerts.

In some examples the networks may include any one or a combination of many different types of networks such as cable networks the Internet wireless networks cellular networks and other private and or public networks. While the illustrated example represents the users accessing the browser application over the networks the described techniques may equally apply in instances where the users interact with the service provider computers via the one or more user computing devices over a landline phone via a kiosk or in any other manner. It is also noted that the described techniques may apply in other client server arrangements e.g. set top boxes etc. as well as in non client server arrangements e.g. locally stored applications etc. .

As described briefly above the messaging application may allow the users to interact with the service provider computers e.g. via smart alerting service such as to access information associated with previously received electronic messages. The one or more service provider computers perhaps arranged in a cluster of servers or as a server farm may host the browser application and or cloud based software services. Other server architectures may also be used to host the messaging application and or cloud based software services. The messaging application may be capable of handling requests from many users and serving in response various user interfaces that can be rendered at the user computing devices such as but not limited to perceived latency or the like. The messaging application can provide any type of website that supports user interaction including search engine sites. As discussed above the described techniques can similarly be implemented outside of the messaging application such as with other applications running on the user computing devices .

The user computing devices may be any type of computing device such as but not limited to a mobile phone a smart phone a personal digital assistant PDA a laptop computer a desktop computer a thin client device a tablet PC an electronic book e book reader etc. In some examples the user computing devices may be in communication with the service provider computers via the networks or via other network connections. Additionally the user computing devices may be part of the distributed system managed by controlled by or otherwise part of the service provider computers .

In one illustrative configuration the user computing devices may include at least one memory and one or more processing units or processor s . The processor s may be implemented as appropriate in hardware computer executable instructions firmware or combinations thereof. Computer executable instruction or firmware implementations of the processor s may include computer executable or machine executable instructions written in any suitable programming language to perform the various functions described.

The memory may store program instructions that are loadable and executable on the processor s as well as data generated during the execution of these programs. Depending on the configuration and type of user computing device the memory may be volatile such as random access memory RAM and or non volatile such as read only memory ROM flash memory etc. . The user computing device may also include additional removable storage and or non removable storage including but not limited to magnetic storage optical disks and or tape storage. The disk drives and their associated computer readable media may provide non volatile storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computing devices. In some implementations the memory may include multiple different types of memory such as static random access memory SRAM dynamic random access memory DRAM or ROM.

Turning to the contents of the memory in more detail the memory may include an operating system and one or more application programs modules or services for implementing the features disclosed herein including at least the perceived latency such as via the messaging application or dedicated applications e.g. smart phone applications tablet applications etc. . The messaging application may be configured to receive store and or interact with service provider computers . Additionally the memory may store access credentials and or other user information such as but not limited to user IDs passwords and or other user information. In some examples the user information may include information for authenticating an account access request such as but not limited to a device ID a cookie an IP address a location or the like.

In some aspects the service provider computers may also be any type of computing devices such as but not limited to a mobile phone a smart phone a personal digital assistant PDA a laptop computer a desktop computer a server computer a thin client device a tablet PC etc. Additionally it should be noted that in some embodiments the service provider computers are executed by one or more virtual machines implemented in a hosted computing environment. The hosted computing environment may include one or more rapidly provisioned and released computing resources which computing resources may include computing networking and or storage devices. A hosted computing environment may also be referred to as a cloud computing environment. In some examples the service provider computers may be in communication with the user computing devices and or other service providers via the networks or via other network connections. The service provider computers may include one or more servers perhaps arranged in a cluster as a server farm or as individual servers not associated with one another. These servers may be configured to implement the smart alerting functionality described herein as part of an integrated distributed computing environment.

In one illustrative configuration the service provider computers may include at least one memory and one or more processing units or processor s . The processor s may be implemented as appropriate in hardware computer executable instructions firmware or combinations thereof. Computer executable instruction or firmware implementations of the processor s may include computer executable or machine executable instructions written in any suitable programming language to perform the various functions described.

The memory may store program instructions that are loadable and executable on the processor s as well as data generated during the execution of these programs. Depending on the configuration and type of service provider computers the memory may be volatile such as RAM and or non volatile such as ROM flash memory etc. . The service provider computers or servers may also include additional storage which may include removable storage and or non removable storage. The additional storage may include but is not limited to magnetic storage optical disks and or tape storage. The disk drives and their associated computer readable media may provide non volatile storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computing devices. In some implementations the memory may include multiple different types of memory such as SRAM DRAM or ROM.

The memory and the additional storage both removable and non removable are all examples of computer readable storage media. For example computer readable storage media may include volatile or non volatile removable or non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. The memory and the additional storage are examples of computer storage media. Additional types of computer storage media that may be present in the service provider computers may include but are not limited to PRAM SRAM DRAM RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the service provider computers . Combinations of any of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

Alternatively computer readable communication media may include computer readable instructions program modules or other data transmitted within a data signal such as a carrier wave or other transmission. However as used herein computer readable storage media does not include computer readable communication media.

The service provider computers may also contain communications connection s that allow the service provider computers to communicate with a stored database another computing device or server user terminals and or other devices on the networks . The service provider computers may also include I O device s such as a keyboard a mouse a pen a voice input device a touch input device a display speakers a printer etc.

Turning to the contents of the memory in more detail which will be described in further detail in the memory may include an operating system one or more data stores and or one or more application programs modules or services for implementing the features disclosed herein including a smart alerting service .

In accordance with at least one embodiment a method is enabled for notifying a user utilizing a smart alert. For example the smart alerting service may be a component of one of the electronic devices discussed above in connection with . The smart alerting service may be stored on an electronic device or be stored on a server accessible to the electronic device. Electronic devices as indicated above may be a cell phone a laptop computer a desktop computer a tablet PC or any suitable device capable of receiving electronic messages including but not limited to texts and emails. A user may configure the smart alerting service via a graphical user interface a component of the smart alerting service . The user may enter configuration information including but not limited to audio sounds tactile responses text to speech options group membership information related message options and routing preferences. The user may specify group membership information that includes email addresses and or phone numbers of other users. Related message options may include a maximum number of related messages the user wishes to display with the received alert on delivery. Routing preferences may indicate that certain attributes of a message e.g. certain addressees and or keywords in the subject line or body of the message are to be routed to a particular location e.g. a particular inbox accessible from a cell phone . Once information is entered via graphical user interface application programming interface a component of smart alerting service may be utilized to communicate the information to smart alerting service .

In at least one example configuration manager a component of the smart alerting service may be configured to receive configuration information from a user of an electronic device. The configuration manager may be responsible for creating and maintaining a user profile utilized to store such configuration information. Further the configuration manager may cause such configuration data to be stored in a configuration data store .

In accordance with at least one embodiment configuration information may be received by the smart alerting service via application programming interface . The configuration manager may forward the message to a linguistic analysis engine a component of the smart alerting service . The linguistic analysis engine may analyze the received information for keywords contained within the subject line and or body of the message for example. Once determined the keywords along with a portion of or the entire message may be stored in historical alert data store . Historical alert data store may be responsible for storage of received electronic messages keywords associated with each received electronic message in addition to resolution information associated with each electronic message. The resolution information may be stored as part of resolution workflow executed in response to receiving the message discussed in further detail below.

In accordance with at least one embodiment the linguistic analysis engine may communicate the received message information to comparison engine a component of the smart alerting service . The comparison engine may be responsible for determining related messages by comparing keywords associated with the received electronic message to keywords associated with previously received electronic messages stored in historical alert data store . In at least one example a keyword Failure may be found within the subject line of an electronic message. Additionally a keyword Fail may be found within the subject line or body of a previously received message. These messages may be determined by the comparison engine to be related based at least in part on a similar root word Fail. Additionally multiple keywords may be utilized to determine related messages. For instance the received message might contain the words Purchase order drop of 27 . Similarly a previously received message might contain the words Purchase order drop of 35 . Comparison engine may determine that these messages are related based at least in part on the common words purchase order and drop. 

In accordance with at least one embodiment the comparison engine might determine multiple potentially related messages. In this case the comparison engine may score each potentially related message based at least in part on the strength of commonality between the messages. For instance given the received message contains the words Purchase order drop of 27 a previously received message containing the words Purchase order drop of 35 may receive a higher score than a previously received message containing the words Traffic drop on system 11290. Additionally purchase order drop of 35 may receive for instance a higher score than a message containing the words Order reduction of 500 orders over the last 2 hours. However the message containing the words Order reduction of 500 orders over the last 2 hours might receive a higher score than the previously received message containing the words Traffic drop on system 11290 due to the similarity of keywords namely those of order and the determination that drop and reduction have similar meanings. Comparison engine may use any suitable scoring method capable of distinguishing keyword relationships between messages. Once comparison is complete the comparison engine may cause the related message information to be stored as an association of the received message.

In accordance with at least one embodiment routing manager may be configured to receive message information from comparison engine . Upon receipt routing manager may query configuration data store for information pertaining to routing instructions. For instance a user may have configured the smart alerting service to identify messages coming from a particular sender as requiring routing to a particular inbox. For instance a user may decide that messages coming from Bob Parker phone number 206 321 4563 and or email address bobp boss.com require that the messages be delivered to a particular inbox accessible by the user s cell phone. For example the user may specify that such message be delivered to an inbox entitled Boss emails. Upon receipt of a message sent from a user identified as Bob Parker the routing manager may identify the message and routing instructions indicating that the message is to be deliverable to inbox Boss emails. The routing manager may cause the received message to be associated with particular routing instructions.

In accordance with at least one embodiment the routing manager may ascertain group membership information specified in the configuration information stored in configuration data store in order to forward the received message to other users. For instance the user may have specified in configuration data that messages received from technical group companyA.com are to be forwarded to an inbox entitled Work Emails in addition to forwarding the message to three other group members identified by email address or phone number. Once group membership information is determined the routing manager may compose a new message mark the message as inactive to prevent actual alerting to the recipient and forward the newly composed message to the three identified group members.

In accordance with at least one embodiment presentation manager a component of smart alerting service may be configured to receive information from routing manager . If the message is configured to be displayed with an audio component e.g. a musical tune a series of tones etc. presentation manager may query audio data store for the configured audio information associated with the message. In some instances audio information may include an audio file to be used in presenting the message. The audio data store may be responsible for storing audio files to be used in presenting the message. The audio data store may exist external to the smart alerting service or may be a component of the smart alerting service . The audio data store may be a user s musical database managed by another application external to the smart alerting service or the audio data store may be managed by the smart alerting service . The presentation manager may then generate an alert to be delivered to the user such that delivery of the alert causes the audio contained in the audio file to play on device where delivery occurs.

In accordance with at least one embodiment presentation manager may consult configuration information from configuration data store to determine how many if any related messages to display with the generated alert. For instance a user may have indicated a desire to view the top five related messages within any alert received. Given this information ascertained from the configuration data associated with the user the presentation manager may cause information regarding the highest scored related messages up to five messages to be displayable within a generated alert. In one example this might be achieved by displaying within the generated alert information associated with the up to five related messages e.g. an identification number for each related message as text or perhaps a hyperlink within the display of the generated alert. Additionally presentation manager may ascertain other configuration information described above and tailor the alert to exhibit corresponding behaviors and attributes.

In accordance with at least one embodiment a user may access the alert to gain knowledge of the existence of a current issue requiring his attention. As a result of his efforts to resolve the issue one or more tasks may be identified. For instance a user who receives an alert indicating a Purchase Order drop of 37 may eventually discover that server B has been inoperable for the last hour resulting in a purchase order drop due to the inability of users of the electronic marketplace to utilize a purchasing interface. Further the user may determine that a course of action to resolve such an issue may include rebooting server B. This resolution step may be associated with a corresponding message stored in the historical alert data store . Later a new message may be received via the method defined above. The user having been presented an alert containing multiple related messages may opt to select one to view. This selection may be received by the presentation manager . The presentation manager may cause information associated with the selected message to be displayed to the user. Alternatively the presentation manager may present an identifier of the related message as a hyperlink or text. The user upon selection of the hyperlink may be directed to a web page where information regarding the related message may be accessible. The user may discover that the related message contains resolution information indicating that the course taken to resolve the issue was to reboot server B. In at least one example the user may be presented the opportunity to select the resolution associated with the related message.

In accordance with at least one embodiment the related message specifies a resolution workflow indicating a reboot of server B has been performed. The user may indicate via the alert his desire to execute the same course of action. This indication may be received by command execution manager a component of the smart alerting service . In at least one example the command execution manager may receive information regarding the desired action and may convert this information into executable device commands to be executed on a corresponding device. In the current example the command execution manager may receive information indicating that server B should be rebooted. Command execution manager may convert this information into executable device instructions and send the device instructions via application programming interface to the corresponding device for execution. Additionally command execution manager may associate such action with the corresponding message stored in historical alert data store . Furthermore command execution manager may send an inactive message containing information regarding device instructions to other members of a group such that the other members of the group are able to access such information.

In accordance with at least one embodiment a resolution workflow indicated in a related message may be automatically executed by the command execution manager . For instance if a user failed to respond to the alert within a threshold period of time command execution manager may consider the lack of response as acquiescence and proceed with execution of device commands indicated by the resolution workflow. In at least one example the user may affirmatively respond via graphical user interface with a response indicating the user s desire to execute the resolution workflow. In this example graphical user interface would communicate such information via application programming interface to command execution manager . Command execution manager upon receipt of such information may cause the corresponding device commands associated with the resolution workflow to be executed on the appropriate electronic device.

In accordance with at least one embodiment if the message is to be processed as a smart alert an alert may be generated in accordance with the configuration information and may be routed to a smart alert inbox at . A determination as to whether the alert is active or inactive is made at . If the alert is inactive the alert may be stored in local storage at for instance in local storage a data store located on an electronic device. If the alert is determined to be active at then the smart alerting system may cause in accordance with configuration information an alert sound and or music to be played on the electronic device at . Once the sound music has subsided or alternatively during the playing of the sound music the smart alerting service may cause the message to be read aloud utilizing text to speech technology at . Additionally if group membership information was defined in the configuration information the smart alerting system may forward the message to the configured group members.

In accordance with at least one embodiment as illustrated by the use case depicted in the diagram B user may be unable to resolve a particular issue and may choose to forward a received message to user . Alternatively user may indicate to multiple users for instance users and an inability to respond to the received message. In at least one example the user may indicate that he is unable to work the issue e.g. by selecting a button entitled get help . Alternatively the indication may occur due to user failing to respond to the received message within a threshold period of time. Upon elapse of the threshold period of time users and may be alerted using the previously received message. The alert may occur by a message being sent from smart alerting service to smart alerting services and resulting in the previously received message being toggled from inactive to active at smart alerting services and . In at least one case user may select to begin work on the described issue contained in the received message e.g. by selecting a button entitled help a coworker or merely by opening the alert .

Upon work being initiated e.g. by user an updating message may be sent to smart alerting services and to notify users and respectively. Additionally any steps taken by user to resolve the technical problem indicated by the received message may be stored locally and communicated to users and such that the information may be stored locally on devices and respectively. In this manner messages and resolution workflow information e.g. steps taken to resolve the technical problem may be synchronized among users and . This enables a user to utilize device commands and other resolution steps taken previously by him or other users in his endeavor to correct the current technical problem. Additionally coordination of who may be tasked with working the issue may be efficiently handled to avoid duplicate work being conducted by members of the group. Furthermore stale issues are avoided given that only a threshold period of time may pass before other users are notified of a pending issue.

As an example depicts aspects of elements that may be present in an electronic device and or system e.g. the electronic device configured to implement a method and or process in accordance with some embodiments of the present disclosure. The subsystems shown in are interconnected via a system bus . Additional subsystems include a keyboard and a monitor which is coupled to a display adapter . Peripherals and input output I O devices which couple to an I O controller can be connected to the computer system by any suitable number of means known in the art such as a serial port . The computer system may be made up of one or many computers. The serial port or an external interface can be utilized to connect the computer device to further devices and or systems not shown in including a wide area network such as the Internet a mouse input device and or a scanner.

The interconnection via the system bus allows one or more processors to communicate with each subsystem and to control the execution of instructions that may be stored in a system memory and or a fixed disk as well as the exchange of information between subsystems. The processor s may be implemented as appropriate in hardware computer executable instructions firmware or combinations thereof. Computer executable instructions or firmware implementations of the processor s may include computer executable or machine executable instructions written in any suitable programming language to perform the various functions described. The system memory may store program instructions that are loadable and executable on the processor s as well as data generated during the execution of these programs. Depending on the configuration and type of computing device the system memory may be volatile such as random access memory RAM and or non volatile such as read only memory ROM flash memory etc. . The computing device may also include additional removable storage and or non removable storage including but not limited to a fixed disk including but not limited to magnetic storage optical disks and or tape storage. The disk drives and their associated computer readable media may provide non volatile storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computing devices. In some implementations the system memory may include multiple different types of memory such as static random access memory SRAM dynamic random access memory DRAM or ROM. Smart alerting service e.g. the smart alerting service may be configured to operate on electronic device as a service or application.

The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereunto without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention as set forth in the claims.

Other variations are within the spirit of the present disclosure. Thus while the disclosed techniques are susceptible to various modifications and alternative constructions certain illustrated embodiments thereof are shown in the drawings and have been described above in detail. It should be understood however that there is no intention to limit the invention to the specific form or forms disclosed but on the contrary the intention is to cover all modifications alternative constructions and equivalents falling within the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims.

The use of the terms a and an and the and similar referents in the context of describing the disclosed embodiments especially in the context of the following claims are to be construed to cover both the singular and the plural unless otherwise indicated herein or clearly contradicted by context. The terms comprising having including and containing are to be construed as open ended terms i.e. meaning including but not limited to unless otherwise noted. The term connected is to be construed as partly or wholly contained within attached to or joined together even if there is something intervening. Recitation of ranges of values herein are merely intended to serve as a shorthand method of referring individually to each separate value falling within the range unless otherwise indicated herein and each separate value is incorporated into the specification as if it were individually recited herein. All methods described herein can be performed in any suitable order unless otherwise indicated herein or otherwise clearly contradicted by context. The use of any and all examples or exemplary language e.g. such as provided herein is intended merely to better illuminate embodiments of the invention and does not pose a limitation on the scope of the invention unless otherwise claimed. No language in the specification should be construed as indicating any non claimed element as essential to the practice of the invention.

Disjunctive language such as the phrase at least one of X Y or Z unless specifically stated otherwise is otherwise understood within the context as used in general to present that an item term etc. may be either X Y or Z or any combination thereof e.g. X Y and or Z . Thus such disjunctive language is not generally intended to and should not imply that certain embodiments require at least one of X at least one of Y or at least one of Z to each be present.

Preferred embodiments of this disclosure are described herein including the best mode known to the inventors for carrying out the invention. Variations of those preferred embodiments may become apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art upon reading the foregoing description. The inventors expect skilled artisans to employ such variations as appropriate and the inventors intend for the invention to be practiced otherwise than as specifically described herein. Accordingly this invention includes all modifications and equivalents of the subject matter recited in the claims appended hereto as permitted by applicable law. Moreover any combination of the above described elements in all possible variations thereof is encompassed by the invention unless otherwise indicated herein or otherwise clearly contradicted by context.

All references including publications patent applications and patents cited herein are hereby incorporated by reference to the same extent as if each reference were individually and specifically indicated to be incorporated by reference and were set forth in its entirety herein.

