---

title: Method and apparatus for providing positioning services using multi-spacing clustering
abstract: An approach for providing positioning services using multi-space clustering includes detecting sensor data across a plurality of sensor spaces for a device. The plurality of sensor spaces are associated with respective one or more sensor types. The approach also includes predicting a point propensity for the device to represent location data of the device based on the sensor data, and performing a clustering of the location data across the plurality of sensor spaces to generate a cluster graph of a physical space associated with the sensor data.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09288630&OS=09288630&RS=09288630
owner: Verizon Patent and Licensing Inc.
number: 09288630
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131028
---
Location based services and applications have become increasingly popular among consumers. However traditional location based services generally rely on dedicated location sensors to provide positioning information. As a result service providers face significant technical challenges to providing positioning services that do not rely on dedicated location sensors so that positioning services will continue to operate when dedicated location sensors e.g. satellite based location sensors are not available e.g. when indoor conditions block reception of location signals . Based on the foregoing there is a need for an approach for providing positioning services using multi space clustering of commonly available and non dedicated sensor data to determine location data.

A method apparatus and system for providing positioning services using multi space clustering are described. In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. It is apparent however to one skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details or with an equivalent arrangement. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the present invention.

In addition even after installing indoor location sensors service providers are faced with the problem of lack of indoor mapping data. Traditional map providers for instance often have to obtain floor maps or other maps so that users can see their locations and navigate within indoor environments. However gathering such indoor mapping data is a daunting task and can be very resource intensive. For example because of this resource burden traditional map providers have generally been limited to providing indoor maps for large public places e.g. shopping malls tourist attractions etc. thereby leaving the vast majority of indoor environments e.g. office buildings homes smaller shops etc. unmapped. As a result users generally have poorer mapping navigation and other location based services available to them while indoors.

To address these problems a system of introduces the capability to leverage predictive learning and sensors already available on user devices alongside a consumer configurable mix of on device and cloud based computation and or recall of multi space clustering of sensor signatures and their anomalies to eliminate the need for floor plans and dedicated indoor positioning sensors and related hardware. In one embodiment multi space sensor signatures refers to for instance different views of a physical environment as sensed using different sensor types such as a audio and magnetic b contextual and topological c electromagnetic spectrum and d metric views. The system then clusters or segment observed point readings of the multi space sensor signatures to segment the physical space into regions defined for instance by Voronoi polytopes. The system then applies predictive analytics on the Voronoi polytopes to adaptively discover and learn the layout or configuration of a physical space e.g. indoor space and provide positioning navigation services within the space.

In one embodiment the system provides positioning services e.g. indoor positioning services by using a mobile device e.g. a smartphone device that has standard sensors e.g. magnetic and audio sensors along with a camera and standard cellular or wireless based broadband connectivity from a hardware perspective for deployment of the services. As previously discussed the system then uses advanced predictive analytics described to provide for learning of navigable routes using a combination of contextual and multi space sensor readings.

Although various embodiments are described with respect to providing positioning services using multi space clustering in an indoor environment it is contemplated that the various embodiments are applicable anywhere traditional location sensors or unavailable or not used. For example other use scenarios include outdoor navigation where satellite based location sensors or cell tower location triangulation is available e.g. when under heavy foliage or in areas with no wireless reception . In other cases users may avoid activating traditional location based sensors to reduce battery consumption and instead use the positioning services described herein. Yet another use case includes exploring unknown locations such as caves collapsed buildings etc. where mapping information and or traditional location sensors do not operate.

In one embodiment the system provides semantic topological metric and or other views of a physical space e.g. an indoor space such as shopping malls cruise ships business campuses buildings etc. determined from for instance multi space clustering and crowdsourcing of user point propensity location data derived from multi space sensor data e.g. sensor data collected from sensors such as microphones short range wireless receivers magnetometers light sensors etc. that are typically already present in mobile devices . In one embodiment the system calculates the view of the physical space by determining anomalies present in the location data e.g. of either individual users or a set of crowdsourced users . These anomalies may indicate for instance unused spaces paths gathering places etc. that the system can use to automatically infer or learn a layout or floor plan of the physical space. In one embodiment the learning or inference of the layout or floor plan is performed using predictive ensemble models as discussed in more detail below. In this way the system advantageously 1 eliminates a need for a pre constructed map or floor plan of the space 2 eliminates a need for external hardware for localization and 3 provides for realtime availability of positioning services.

In one embodiment the system populates a multi dimensional navigational space with sensor data where each dimension or space of the multi dimensional navigational space is associated with a different sensor type. By way of example a multi dimensional navigational space may include sensor spaces for audio signatures contextual signatures electromagnetic spectrum signatures and or magnetic signatures. It is contemplated that the sensor types listed for illustration and not for limitation. Accordingly any sensor or sensor type available at a device can be used according to the various embodiments described herein.

In one embodiment the system determines a point propensity e.g. an estimated location of a device by determining a likely intersection point of the multiple spaces of sensor data. In other words the system leverages the notion that at any particular point the sensor signatures across all spaces create a unique and identifiable combination of signatures that can be associated with a particular point in space. For instance at a Point A in space it is expected that the combination of for instance audio signature contextual signature electromagnetic signature and or magnetic signature capture by a user device will be unique to Point A. As a result under the various embodiments of the approaches described herein traditional or dedicated location sensors e.g. Global Positioning Satellite GPS signals or Bluetooth Low Energy BLE environments and supporting external hardware infrastructure e.g. BLE beacons satellites etc. are not necessary for localization of a device while achieving expected positioning accuracy from 2.5 meters down to 0.1 meters e.g. depending on the sensor types used .

In one embodiment the system collects location data from multiple devices e.g. device and over various periods of time e.g. via crowdsourcing to aggregate a set of location data for a given physical space or environment. For example the location data can be generated according to the example point propensity processes described above using sensor data collected by the sensors e.g. microphones short range wireless receivers light sensors magnetometers barometers etc. of the device . In embodiment the positioning platform them performs a clustering of the data set to segment the physical space. By way of example the clustering and segmentation of the physical space can be performed using Voronoi polytopes so that the Voronoi polytopes represent three dimensional cells or regions that comprise the entirety of interior volume of the physical space e.g. a building .

In one embodiment the positioning platform translates the Voronoi polytopes into N dimensional Delaunay tessellations to represent the structure of the physical space. The positioning platform stores the Delaunay tessellations in the tessellation store . In one embodiment all or a portion of the tessellations may be cached to the device from the tessellation store and or streamed from the tessellation store to the device as needed.

In one embodiment the positioning platform may also generate a cluster graph that represents the physical space and the location data and or traces. By way of example the cluster graph can be overlaid on the tessellations and or the representations of the Voronoi polytopes resulting from the clustering and stored in the cluster graph store . In one embodiment the cluster graph provides a contextual view of collected location data to show discovered features such as a paths through the physical space b areas where users congregate or remain and or c other anomalies of the data set. As discussed these anomalies are discovered using predictive ensemble models that can automatically detect the anomalies. In one embodiment the models can also assign semantic meaning to the anomalies. For example discovered paths between multiple levels in a physical space may represent a stairway a pathway through one corner may represent a doorway unused spaces may represent walls or other obstructions etc. These anomalies are then used as to determine a floor plan or layout of a physical space without needing a previously drawn map.

In one embodiment the positioning platform can predict or discover anomalies e.g. paths from A to B areas of no use stay points etc. in the multidimensional navigation space by leveraging both inductive and deductive reasoning based on various predictive models. In one embodiment the models are ensemble models comprising multiple models of multiple types e.g. experiential models such as neural networks regression models etc. . In one embodiment the models adhere to the Predictive Modeling Markup Language PMML standard. By way of example the ensemble models of the system support a combination of data driven insight and expert knowledge into a single and powerful decision strategy. Neural network models for instance encapsulate experiential rules used by experts to provide discovery of location anomalies and features. Then predictive analytics augments the experiential rules based on an ability to automatically recognize patterns in data not obvious to the expert eye. As a result the ensemble model approach described herein uses more than one model to arrive at a consensus classification or impact scoring for a given set of user location data.

In one embodiment the positioning platform can continuously monitor collected location data to determine changes within the monitored physical environment. For example new construction or rearrangements of fixtures can create new pathways or result in new obstructions. The positioning platform can process the location data collected after the changes to construct a more current floor plan that reflects the changes. Accordingly the positioning platform is adaptive to a changing physical space so that uses can be automatically provided with up to date information about a physical space.

As shown in device is located within the indoor environment . The device employs an array of built in sensors to obtain multi space sensor data e.g. audio signature contextual signature electromagnetic signature magnetic signature etc. to create for instance a multi space topological representation of the sensor data. In this case the sensor data represents a point reading that is processed by the positioning platform to determine a likely point within the indoor environment that most likely represents the intersection point of the multi space sensor data e.g. indicated by the star in the representation . Moreover in this example the representation corresponds to a cross section of the indoor space and therefore the star indicates a location of the device within one plane of the indoor space. The positioning platform can then use the multi space sensor to further perform a signature match to estimate a vertical position of the device within the three dimensional indoor environment.

In one embodiment if requested by the user or device e.g. to obtain indoor mapping information the positioning platform accesses the tessellation store to compute a tessellation for the indoor environment . The tessellation for instance can be used to render a graphical representation of the indoor environment on the user s device along with a location of the device determined from the point reading of the device s multi space sensor data.

In one embodiment the device may execute a positioning application to perform all or a portion of various embodiments of the processes described herein. For example depending on the resources available at device the positioning application can perform functions such as computing the Voronoi spaces for a given physical. It is contemplated that the positioning application and the positioning platform can interact according to a client server architecture to share functions data etc. associated with providing positioning service using multi space clusters.

For illustrative purposes the positioning platform the device and or the positioning application have connectivity to the service provider network via one or more of networks . In one embodiment networks may be any suitable wireline and or wireless network and be managed by one or more service providers. For example telephony network may include a circuit switched network such as the public switched telephone network PSTN an integrated services digital network ISDN a private branch exchange PBX or other like network. Wireless network may employ various technologies including for example code division multiple access CDMA enhanced data rates for global evolution EDGE general packet radio service GPRS mobile ad hoc network MANET global system for mobile communications GSM Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS etc. as well as any other suitable wireless medium e.g. microwave access WiMAX wireless fidelity WiFi satellite and the like. Meanwhile data network may be any local area network LAN metropolitan area network MAN wide area network WAN the Internet or any other suitable packet switched network such as a commercially owned proprietary packet switched network such as a proprietary cable or fiber optic network.

Although depicted as separate entities networks may be completely or partially contained within one another or may embody one or more of the aforementioned infrastructures. For instance the service provider network may embody circuit switched and or packet switched networks that include facilities to provide for transport of circuit switched and or packet based communications. It is further contemplated that networks may include components and facilities to provide for signaling and or bearer communications between the various components or facilities of system . In this manner networks may embody or include portions of a signaling system 7 SS7 network or other suitable infrastructure to support control and signaling functions.

The cloud service manager module generates an instance of the positioning platform on demand associated with a channel partner. Each instance of the positioning platform gives the channel partner requesting access through the cloud network e.g. cloud service the ability to manage the services provided. These services include positioning services using multi space clustering.

In this embodiment the positioning platform includes a controller a memory an authentication module a point propensity module a clustering module a prediction module a guidance module and a communication interface . In one embodiment the positioning platform also has access to the tessellation store and the cluster graph store .

The controller may execute at least one algorithm e.g. stored at the memory for executing functions of the positioning platform . For example the controller may interact with the authentication module authentication user access to the positioning services of the positioning platform . In one embodiment the authentication module may be implemented as an independent identity server. For example the authentication module can ensure that users have valid subscriptions for using the user. On the other hand if the positioning services are configured for open access no authentication may be needed.

Once a user or device is authenticated the point propensity module can monitor for user requests for positioning information. The point propensity module for instance is available via API that listens for request from the device for determining a point reading. In one embodiment the device can collect or measure multi space sensor data e.g. across a variety of sensor types and submit the multi space sensor data to the point propensity module to estimate a point reading or location of the device based on the sensor signatures indicated in the sensor data. For example the point propensity module will determine a likely intersection point that matches the sensor signatures measured by the device and this point represents a likely location of the device.

In one embodiment the point propensity module can compile or aggregate a set of location data from multiple devices to generate a location data set. The clustering module can then process the location data set to perform multi space clustering. In one embodiment the clustering module uses for instance a k means clustering method on the location data set. By way of example k means clustering partitions n observations of location data e.g. location data points for devices as determined by the point propensity module into k clusters where each observation is grouped into the cluster with the nearest mean or seed. The mean serves as a prototype of the cluster. In one embodiment the clustering module partitions the location data set into Voronoi polytopes.

Once the location data is clustered into Voronoi polytopes the clustered data e.g. in the form of a cluster graph is fed to the prediction module . In one embodiment the prediction module uses predictive analytics to discover and classify anomalies in the location data set to identify features e.g. paths non used spaces gathering points etc. within the physical space. For example the prediction module can use a scoring engine to identify potential features or anomalies. The prediction module can for instance evaluate the cluster graph to identify edges between nodes as potential paths through a physical space as well as non used spaces where there are no devices appear to be located or travel through. In one embodiment the patterns created by the traveled edges e.g. based on frequency of observations and well as the lack of location data at certain locations can be used to infer the presence of specific features in the environment.

More specifically in one embodiment the prediction module uses ensemble predictive models to calculate a predicted score for classifying anomalies in the location data into identifiable features layouts floor plans etc. of a physical space e.g. an indoor space . For example each feature e.g. a doorway wall hallway staircase etc. may have specific classification criteria that emerge from observations and predictive analysis of anomalies in the data set. These criteria are then used as the basis for identifying the features in a previously unknown or unmapped space. For example the prediction module combines linear regression and neural network models into a predictive scorecard. In one embodiment the predictive models leverage a PMML cloud based engine such as the Adaptive Decision and Predictive Analytics ADAPA engine. In one embodiment the model s data dictionary contains all the definitions for data fields input variables used in the model. The dictionary also specifies the data field types and value ranges. In PMML the content of a Data Field element defines the set of values which are considered to be valid or default parameters. Each PMML model also contains one Mining Schema which lists fields used in the model.

In one embodiment the neural network model represent a model trained by the use of a back propagation algorithm to identity features in a physical space. For example a neural network model is composed of an input layer one or more hidden layers and an output layer. In one embodiment the model used by the prediction module is composed of an input layer containing many input nodes multiple hidden layers with neurons and an output layer with output neurons. All input nodes are connected to all neurons in the hidden layer via connection weights. By the same extent all neurons in the hidden layer are connected to the output neuron in the output layer. Each neuron receives one or more input values each coming via a network connection and are contained in the corresponding neuron element. Each connection of the element neuron stores the ID of a node it comes from and the weight. A bias weight coefficient or a width or a radial basis function unit may also be stored as an attribute of the neuron element.

In one embodiment after the prediction module determines a floor plan or configuration of a physical space e.g. an indoor space the guidance module can use point readings from a particular device to assist the device or a user of the device in navigating the physical space. For example the configuration or layout of a space may be represented as a tessellation stored in the tessellation database for caching or retrieval by the device . The guidance module can then use the tessellation to render a view of representation of the space along with the device s estimated location within the space. In one embodiment the guidance module can present the guidance or mapping information for the physical space as a variety of views. For example these views include a metric view a topological view a semantic view etc.

In step the positioning platform detects sensor data across a plurality of sensor spaces for a device. In one embodiment the plurality of sensor spaces are associated with respective one or more sensor types. For example the multiple sensor spaces can be overlaid to represent a physical space across multiple dimensions with each sensor space representing one dimension. By way of example the sensor types include a magnetometer a microphone a camera a light meter a short range wireless receiver or a combination thereof. The list of sensor types is provided by way of illustration and not limitation. Accordingly it is contemplated that the positioning platform may use any sensor type that is installed or made available on a device . For example some devices may have infrared sensors barometers etc. that can be used to sense a surrounding environment and become a part of a multi dimensional sensor space.

In step the positioning platform predicts a point propensity for the device to represent location data of the device based on the sensor data. In one embodiment the positioning platform determines a likely intersection point of the plurality of sensor spaces to predict the point propensity for the device. The point propensity is used for instance to localize a set of sensor readings to a specific point in space. As previously discussed the positioning platform in one embodiment bases its localization mechanism on the concept that each point in space is associated with a unique combination or intersection of sensor signatures. Accordingly as the number of dimensions of sensors increases or the local specificity of individual sensor signatures increases so does the accuracy of the positioning information generated by the positioning platform .

In step the positioning platform performs a clustering of the location data across the plurality of sensor spaces to generate a cluster graph of a physical space associated with the sensor data. In one embodiment the positioning platform performs the clustering using one or more Voronoi polytopes using k means clustering. The clustering for instance enables the positioning platform to provide a framework or organizing and processing a potentially large collection of location data into more manageable clusters to reduce processing burdens and increase efficiency. This processing efficiency enables Voronoi clustering to be performed locally on modern mobile devices e.g. smartphones which have traditionally had relatively limited processing capabilities thereby avoiding a need for more extensive computing requirements and related infrastructure.

In step the positioning platform performs a crowd sourcing of the location data in combination with other location data determined for one or more other devices within the physical space over one or more time periods. Because the positioning platform is able to determine a device location or point propensity with non location specific sensors e.g. GPS sensors the positioning services of the positioning platform can be widely deployed to existing mobile devices for collecting point readings and location data from a potentially vast array of previously unmapped environments e.g. building interiors cruise ships etc. . This ease of deployment can enable the positioning platform to collect and crowd source location data from a large community of devices to quickly populate cluster graphs various physical environments. For example a large or extensive location data set enables the positioning platform to more accurately perform its predictive analytics to discover data anomalies and the environmental features associated with those anomalies.

For example in step the positioning platform predicts one or more unused spaces within the physical space based on the crowd sourcing the location data the other location data or a combination thereof. More specifically the positioning platform applies predictive models to score and classified sensor data that meet conditions for classification as a feature such as a whether an area of a physical space is unused. Unused for instance refers to areas or regions e.g. represented by Voronoi polytopes of the interior volume of the physical space that have little or no location traces. These unused areas can represent obstructions or physical features that obstruct or prevent user movement. Based on the characteristics of the sensor signatures e.g. electromagnetic anomalies the positioning platform can further predict the nature of the feature or obstruction e.g. whether the obstruction is a wall a table etc. .

In step the positioning platform predicts one or more paths within the physical space based on the crowd sourcing the location data the other location data or a combination thereof. Similar to the predictive analytics used to determine unused spaces described in step the positioning platform can apply predictive models to determine what paths are observed between various points within the physical space are taken by users. The identified paths can be then be scored by the predictive models to determine suitability for use as recommended paths for guiding or navigating users within the space.

In step the positioning platform determines or generates a floor plan of the physical space based on the one or more unused spaces the one or more paths the cluster graph or a combination thereof. In one embodiment the positioning platform can use the predicted features e.g. paths unused spaces etc. to predict an overall layout floor plan or metric view of the physical space. Because of the dynamic nature of collected point readings the positioning platform can continuously update the floor plan to reflect changes e.g. construction rearrangement etc. of the physical space.

In step the positioning platform generates guidance information for navigating within the physical space based on the cluster graph. In one embodiment the positioning platform is able to leverage the paths layouts features etc. determined in the steps above to provide guidance information to users even in physical spaces where no traditional map previously existed. For example the positioning platform can combine device localization within a physical environment e.g. via point propensity determination form multi space sensor data with learned physical features e.g. layouts floor plans paths etc. to deliver navigation guidance information.

The contextual topological space represents visual information e.g. windows doors furnishings etc. that can be recognized from visual sensor data e.g. camera sensor data . The electromagnetic spectrum space is determined from readings from wireless receivers e.g. cellular receivers Wi Fi receivers Bluetooth receivers etc. that can be used to create a view of the electromagnetic environment of the physical space . The metric space represents a physical layout or floor plan of the physical space . The metric space for instance can be determined applying predictive analytics on sensor information to infer physical features present in the environment.

Based on the point readings of the device and the multi dimensional space the device e.g. via a positioning application can present a user interface that provides a floor plan or layout of the physical space . The user interface can also present a current location of the device as well as a location of nearby places of interest as estimated by the positioning platform . In one embodiment the user interface may include a user interface element that presents a radar like representation of the device s location in relation the places of interest to further assist a user in navigating within the physical space .

To the extent the aforementioned embodiments collect store or employ personal information provided by individuals it should be understood that such information shall be used in accordance with all applicable laws concerning protection of personal information. Additionally the collection storage and use of such information may be subject to consent of the individual to such activity for example through well known opt in or opt out processes as may be appropriate for the situation and type of information. Storage and use of personal information may be in an appropriately secure manner reflective of the type of information for example through various encryption and anonymization techniques for particularly sensitive information.

The processes described herein for providing positioning services using multi space clustering can be implemented via software hardware e.g. general processor Digital Signal Processing DSP chip an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs etc. firmware or a combination thereof. Such exemplary hardware for performing the described functions is detailed below.

The computer system may be coupled via the bus to a display such as a cathode ray tube CRT liquid crystal display active matrix display or plasma display for displaying information to a computer user. An input device such as a keyboard including alphanumeric and other keys is coupled to the bus for communicating information and command selections to the processor . Another type of user input device is a cursor control such as a mouse a trackball or cursor direction keys for communicating direction information and command selections to the processor and for controlling cursor movement on the display .

According to an embodiment of the invention the processes described herein are performed by the computer system in response to the processor executing an arrangement of instructions contained in main memory . Such instructions can be read into main memory from another computer readable medium such as the storage device . Execution of the arrangement of instructions contained in main memory causes the processor to perform the process steps described herein. One or more processors in a multi processing arrangement may also be employed to execute the instructions contained in main memory . In alternative embodiments hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement the embodiment of the invention. Thus embodiments of the invention are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.

The computer system also includes a communication interface coupled to bus . The communication interface provides a two way data communication coupling to a network link connected to a local network . For example the communication interface may be a digital subscriber line DSL card or modem an integrated services digital network ISDN card a cable modem a telephone modem or any other communication interface to provide a data communication connection to a corresponding type of communication line. As another example communication interface may be a local area network LAN card e.g. for Ethernet or an Asynchronous Transfer Mode ATM network to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN. Wireless links can also be implemented. In any such implementation communication interface sends and receives electrical electromagnetic or optical signals that carry digital data streams representing various types of information. Further the communication interface can include peripheral interface devices such as a Universal Serial Bus USB interface a PCMCIA Personal Computer Memory Card International Association interface etc. Although a single communication interface is depicted in multiple communication interfaces can also be employed.

The network link typically provides data communication through one or more networks to other data devices. For example the network link may provide a connection through local network to a host computer which has connectivity to a network e.g. a wide area network WAN or the global packet data communication network now commonly referred to as the Internet or to data equipment operated by a service provider. The local network and the network both use electrical electromagnetic or optical signals to convey information and instructions. The signals through the various networks and the signals on the network link and through the communication interface which communicate digital data with the computer system are exemplary forms of carrier waves bearing the information and instructions.

The computer system can send messages and receive data including program code through the network s the network link and the communication interface . In the Internet example a server not shown might transmit requested code belonging to an application program for implementing an embodiment of the invention through the network the local network and the communication interface . The processor may execute the transmitted code while being received and or store the code in the storage device or other non volatile storage for later execution. In this manner the computer system may obtain application code in the form of a carrier wave.

The term computer readable medium as used herein refers to any medium that participates in providing instructions to the processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media include for example optical or magnetic disks such as the storage device . Volatile media include dynamic memory such as main memory . Transmission media include coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including the wires that comprise the bus . Transmission media can also take the form of acoustic optical or electromagnetic waves such as those generated during radio frequency RF and infrared IR data communications. Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM CDRW DVD any other optical medium punch cards paper tape optical mark sheets any other physical medium with patterns of holes or other optically recognizable indicia a RAM a PROM and EPROM a FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read.

Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in providing instructions to a processor for execution. For example the instructions for carrying out at least part of the embodiments of the invention may initially be borne on a magnetic disk of a remote computer. In such a scenario the remote computer loads the instructions into main memory and sends the instructions over a telephone line using a modem. A modem of a local computer system receives the data on the telephone line and uses an infrared transmitter to convert the data to an infrared signal and transmit the infrared signal to a portable computing device such as a personal digital assistant PDA or a laptop. An infrared detector on the portable computing device receives the information and instructions borne by the infrared signal and places the data on a bus. The bus conveys the data to main memory from which a processor retrieves and executes the instructions. The instructions received by main memory can optionally be stored on storage device either before or after execution by processor.

In one embodiment the chip set includes a communication mechanism such as a bus for passing information among the components of the chip set . A processor has connectivity to the bus to execute instructions and process information stored in for example a memory . The processor may include one or more processing cores with each core configured to perform independently. A multi core processor enables multiprocessing within a single physical package. Examples of a multi core processor include two four eight or greater numbers of processing cores. Alternatively or in addition the processor may include one or more microprocessors configured in tandem via the bus to enable independent execution of instructions pipelining and multithreading. The processor may also be accompanied with one or more specialized components to perform certain processing functions and tasks such as one or more digital signal processors DSP or one or more application specific integrated circuits ASIC . A DSP typically is configured to process real world signals e.g. sound in real time independently of the processor . Similarly an ASIC can be configured to performed specialized functions not easily performed by a general purposed processor. Other specialized components to aid in performing the inventive functions described herein include one or more field programmable gate arrays FPGA not shown one or more controllers not shown or one or more other special purpose computer chips.

The processor and accompanying components have connectivity to the memory via the bus . The memory includes both dynamic memory e.g. RAM magnetic disk writable optical disk etc. and static memory e.g. ROM CD ROM etc. for storing executable instructions that when executed perform the inventive steps described herein to controlling a set top box based on device events. The memory also stores the data associated with or generated by the execution of the inventive steps.

While certain exemplary embodiments and implementations have been described herein other embodiments and modifications will be apparent from this description. Accordingly the invention is not limited to such embodiments but rather to the broader scope of the presented claims and various obvious modifications and equivalent arrangements.

