---

title: Data services based on gesture and location information of device
abstract: With the addition of directional information and gesture based input in a location based services environment, a variety of service(s) can be provided on top of user identification or interaction with specific object(s) of interest. For instance, when a user gestures at or points at a particular item, or gestures at a particular location or place, this creates an opportunity, e.g., an advertising opportunity, for anyone having an interest in that particular item or place to communicate with the user regarding that item or related items at a point in time when the user's focus is on the particular item. User context for the interaction can also be taken into account to supplement the provision of one or more interactive direction based services.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08868374&OS=08868374&RS=08868374
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08868374
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130603
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 437 857 filed on May 8 2009 entitled DATA SERVICES BASED ON GESTURE AND LOCATION INFORMATION OF DEVICE which application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 074 415 filed on Jun. 20 2008 entitled MOBILE COMPUTING SERVICES BASED ON DEVICES WITH DYNAMIC DIRECTION INFORMATION and U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 074 590 filed on Jun. 20 2008 entitled MOBILE COMPUTING SERVICES BASED ON DEVICES WITH DYNAMIC DIRECTION INFORMATION. The contents of each of the foregoing applications are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

The subject disclosure relates to mobile computing devices and the provision of data and or network services based on gesture and location information of the devices.

By way of background concerning some conventional systems mobile devices such as portable laptops PDAs mobile phones navigation devices and the like have been equipped with location based services such as global positioning system GPS systems WiFi cell tower triangulation etc. that can determine and record a position of mobile devices. For instance GPS systems use triangulation of signals received from various satellites placed in orbit around Earth to determine device position. A variety of map based services have emerged from the inclusion of such location based systems that help users of these devices to be found on a map and to facilitate point to point navigation in real time and search for locations near a point on a map.

However such navigation and search scenarios are currently limited to displaying relatively static information about endpoints and navigation routes. While some of these devices with location based navigation or search capabilities allow update of the bulk data representing endpoint information via a network e.g. when connected to a networked portable computer PC or laptop such data again becomes fixed in time. Accordingly it would be desirable to provide a set of richer experiences for users than conventional experiences predicated on location and conventional processing of static bulk data representing potential endpoints of interest. In addition considering the complexity of input on touchscreens or tiny alphanumeric keypads typically provided for portable electronic devices current ways for invoking benefits of location based services are inadequate.

The above described deficiencies of today s location based systems and devices are merely intended to provide an overview of some of the problems of conventional systems and are not intended to be exhaustive. Other problems with the state of the art and corresponding benefits of some of the various non limiting embodiments may become further apparent upon review of the following detailed description.

A simplified summary is provided herein to help enable a basic or general understanding of various aspects of exemplary non limiting embodiments that follow in the more detailed description and the accompanying drawings. This summary is not intended however as an extensive or exhaustive overview. Instead the sole purpose of this summary is to present some concepts related to some exemplary non limiting embodiments in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description of the various embodiments that follow.

Direction based pointing services are provided for portable devices or mobile endpoints. Mobile endpoints can include a positional component for receiving positional information as a function of a location of the portable electronic device a directional component that outputs direction information as a function of an orientation of the portable electronic device and a motion component that outputs motion information e.g. from accelerometer s based on motion experienced by the portable device. Based on an analysis of any one or more of the motion information the direction information or the location information a set of device gestures are determined.

At least one processor of the device processes the any one or more of the motion information the direction information or the location information to determine a gesture or set of gestures which determine action or a request for action to be taken with respect to location based services. For a non limiting example gesture s can be determined based on an analysis of path information determined from the motion information as well as direction information of the device for a given period of time while undergoing the two dimensional 2 D or three dimensional 3 D path defined by the path information. Alternatively the information can be wholly or partly processed by a network service.

Where applicable for a given scenario to determine an item to which the gesture applies the at least one processor processes the positional information and the direction information to determine a subset of points of interest relative to the portable electronic device as a function of the positional information and or the direction information.

Devices or endpoints can include compass es e.g. magnetic or gyroscopic to determine a direction and location based systems for determining location e.g. GPS. To supplement the positional information and or the direction information devices or endpoints can also include component s for determining displacement speed and or acceleration information for processing.

With the addition of directional information and gesturing in a location based ecosystem a variety of service s can be provided on top of user identification or interaction with specific object s of interest. For instance when a user points at a particular item at a particular location or place this creates an opportunity for anyone having an interest in that particular item to communicate or otherwise interact with the user regarding that item or related items at a point in time when the user s focus is on the particular item. User context for the interaction can also be taken into account to supplement the provision of one or more interactive direction based services.

As discussed in the background among other things current location services systems and services e.g. GPS cell triangulation P2P location service such as Bluetooth WiFi etc. tend to be based on the location of the device only and tend to provide static experiences that are not tailored to a user because the data about endpoints of interest is relatively static. In addition input to engage such static location based services is frustrating at best for portable devices such as cell phones PDAs music players notebooks netbooks etc. For instance input to such devices when the user is on the go has been conventionally limited to error prone input processes e.g. due to limited space which are error prone even when a user is not moving and the device is stationary.

At least partly in consideration of these deficiencies of conventional location based services various embodiments of a portable device are provided that enable users to point a device directionally and receive static and or dynamic information in response from a networked service such as provided by one or more servers or as part of a cloud services experience. Moreover by determining gestured made by the device based on any one or more of direction information motion information or location information input for various scenarios and device contexts are greatly facilitated and can be tailored to context based on the location or given point s of interest pointed at by a pointing device.

In the various alternative embodiments described herein leveraging digital compasses and location services to provide direction and location information enables a next generation of direction or pointer based location search services scan services discoverability services etc. In this regard the digital compass and location information such as GPS can be used to point at objects of interest thus defining the entry point for one or more data transactions or interactions between the device and one or more third party devices providing service s for the object s of interest at which the device is pointed. Using a digital compass e.g. solid state magnetic sun moon based etc. on a mobile endpoint facilitates point and upload scenarios point and synchronize geographical information to a Web service cloud services or another endpoint.

As reflected in various embodiments a device is provided that can hone in on interact with or otherwise transact with a specific object or specific objects of interest by way of location and direction of the device creating a new advertising model not previously known. As an example when a user interacts with a particular product on a shelf at a retail store in connection with a direction based service this creates an opportunity for anyone having an interest in the particular product to engage the user e.g. communicate some information to that user. Any context that can be discerned from the user s actions and interactions can also be taken into account when acting on the opportunity. In this regard a variety of gestures can facilitate these actions and interactions without requiring the complexity of input alluded to in the background.

In this regard with a gesture pre defined or user defined users can interact with the endpoints in a host of context sensitive ways to provide or update information associated with endpoints of interest or to receive beneficial information or instruments e.g. coupons offers etc. from entities associated with the endpoints of interest or according to any of the many non examples described in more detail below.

In one embodiment a portable electronic device comprises a positional component that outputs position information as a function of a location of the portable electronic device a motion component that outputs motion information as a function of movement s of the portable device and a directional component that outputs direction information as a function of an orientation of the portable electronic device. The device is configured to process at least the position information to determine point s of interest relating to the position information and configured to process at least the motion information and the direction information to determine pre defined gesture s undergone by the portable electronic device with respect to the point s of interest wherein the portable electronic device automatically makes a request based on the pre defined gesture s and the point s of interest.

The point s of interest can be determined from the position information and the direction information. The at least one pre defined gesture can be determined from any one or more of the position information the motion information and the direction information. The portable electronic device can automatically make a request based on the gesture s and identifier s associated with the point s of interest. The gesture s can be determined based on a pre defined gesture definition or a user defined gesture definition. A positional component can include a global positioning satellite GPS component for receiving and processing GPS signals or a component for receiving position information based on triangulation to wireless base stations an image recognition system for recognizing at least one object in image data and determining a position of the device relative to the at least one object in the image data or other means for measuring location.

The directional component can include a digital compass and can also include an image recognition system for recognizing an object in real space and determining the direction of the object and therefore the device by detecting the side of the object or detecting the object relative to other objects fixed in real space. The motion component can include accelerometer s for measuring an acceleration of the device. The motion component can include at least two accelerometers for measuring a tilt or rotation of at least part of the device.

In one embodiment a process determines a location of a portable device based on location information determined for the device the location information representing a global position of the device. Direction information representing an orientation of the portable device and the location information are analyzed to determine point s of interest towards which the portable device is substantially oriented. In this regard path information representing a path traversed by the portable device is analyzed based on at least the direction information to determine gesture s made by the portable device. A request is transmitted to a network service based on the gesture s and the point of interest.

The analyzing of path information can include processing acceleration information measuring acceleration of the device processing velocity information measuring velocity of the device analyzing the path information for a given time span or analyzing a set of vectors representing the path traversed by the device from a start time to a stop time. Moreover the analyzing of path information can include analyzing three dimensional 3 D path information representing three degrees of freedom of movement for the device but can also include analyzing three dimensional 3 D path information as 2 D path information by collapsing a degree of freedom.

In another embodiment a method includes determining whether a viewing plane of a portable device is aligned with a substantially horizontal plane that is substantially parallel to a ground plane or aligned with a substantially vertical plane that is substantially orthogonal to the ground plane. If the portable device is aligned with the substantially horizontal plane a topographical map view of a geographical area map determined based on location and direction information measured by the portable device is displayed and indication s of point s of interest on the geographical area map are displayed. If the portable device is aligned with the substantially vertical plane an image based view of three dimensional 3 D space extending at least one pre defined direction from the portable device is displayed and indication s of point s of interest pertaining to the 3 D space represented by the image based view can be displayed.

With the addition of directional information in a location based environment a variety of mobile scanning experiences are enabled on top of user identification of or interaction with specific object s of interest by pointing or gesturing at an object of interest. For instance when a user gestures e.g. points at a particular item at a particular location or place this creates an opportunity for anyone having an interest in that particular item to interact with the user regarding that item or related items at a point at a time when the user s focus is on the particular item. User context for the interaction can also be taken into account to supplement the provision of one or more interactive direction based services.

A gesture subsystem can optionally be included in a device which can be predicated on any one or more of the motion information location information or direction information. In this regard not only can direction information and location information be used to define a set of unique gestures but also motion information such as speed and acceleration can be used to define a more sophisticated set of gestures. In this regard one can appreciate that a variety of algorithms could be adopted for a gesture subsystem. For instance a simple click event when in the pointing mode for the device can result in determining a set of points of interest for the user.

The pointing information however produced according to an underlying set of measurement components and interpreted by a processing engine can be one or more vectors. A vector or set of vectors can have a width or arc associated with the vector for any margin of error associated with the pointing of the device. A panning angle can be defined by a user with at least two pointing actions to encompass a set of points of interest e.g. those that span a certain angle defined by a panning gesture by the user.

In this respect a gesturing component can also be included in the device to determine a current gesture of a user of the portable electronic device from a set of pre defined gestures. For example gestures can include zoom in zoom out panning to define an arc all to help filter over potential subsets of points of interest for the user.

In addition a device includes an algorithm for discerning items substantially along a direction at which the device is pointing and those not substantially along a direction at which the device is pointing. In this respect while motion vector might implicate POI without a specific panning gesture that encompassed more directions vectors POIs would likely not be within the scope of points of interest defined by motion vector. The distance or reach of a vector can also be tuned by a user e.g. via a slider control or other control to quickly expand or contract the scope of endpoints encompassed by a given pointing interaction with the device.

Other gestures that can be of interest in for a gesturing subsystem include recognizing a user s gesture for zoom in or zoom out. Zoom in zoom out can be done in terms of distance. A device pointed in direction may include a zoomed in view which includes points of interest within distance and arc or a medium zoomed view representing points of interest between distance or a zoomed out view representing points of interest beyond distance. These zoom zones correspond to POIs. More or less zones can be considered depending upon a variety of factors the service user preference etc.

For another non limiting example with location information and direction information a user can input a first direction via a click and then a second direction after moving the device via a second click which in effect defines an arc for objects of interest. For instance via first pointing act by the user at time in direction and a second pointing act at time by the user in direction an arc is implicitly defined. The area of interest implicitly includes a search of points of object within a distance which can be zoomed in and out or selected by the service based on a known granularity of interest selected by the user etc. This can be accomplished with a variety of forms of input to define the two directions. For instance the first direction can be defined upon a click and hold button event or other engage and hold user interface element and the second direction can be defined upon release of the button. Similarly two consecutive clicks corresponding to the two different directions can also be implemented.

Also instead of focusing on real distance zooming in or out could also represent a change in terms of granularity or size or hierarchy of objects. For example a first pointing gesture with the device may result in a shopping mall appearing but with another gesture a user could carry out a recognizable gesture to gain or lose a level of hierarchical granularity with the points of interest on display. For instance after such gesture the points of interest could be zoomed in to the level of the stores at the shopping mall and what they are currently offering.

In addition a variety of even richer behaviors and gestures can be recognized when acceleration of the device in various axes can be discerned. Panning arm extension retraction swirling of the device backhand tennis swings breaststroke arm action golf swing motions could all signify something unique in terms of the behavior of the pointing device and this is to just name a few motions that could be implemented in practice. Thus any of the embodiments herein can define a set of gestures that serve to help the user interact with a set of services built on the pointing platform to help users easily gain information about points of information in their environment.

Furthermore with relatively accurate upward and downward tilt of the device in addition to directional information such as calibrated and compensated heading directional information other services can be enabled. Typically if a device is ground level the user is outside and the device is pointed up towards the top of buildings the granularity of information about points of interest sought by the user building level is different than if the user was pointing at the first floor shops of the building shops level even where the same compass direction is implicated. Similarly where a user is at the top of a landmark such as the Empire State building a downward tilt at the street level street level granularity would implicate information about different points of interest that if the user of the device pointed with relatively no tilt at the Statue of Liberty landmark building level of granularity .

A device can also include a Hardware Abstraction Layer HAL having components responsible for abstracting the way the client communicates with the measuring instruments e.g. the GPS driver for positioning and LOS accuracy e.g. open eGPS magnetic compass for heading and rotational information e.g. gyroscopic one or more accelerometers for gestured input and tilt achieves 3D positional algorithms assuming gyroscopic compass .

In cooperation with gesture based analysis component and optionally local applications or services or remote services processor s process the position information and or the direction information to determine a set of points of interest relating to the position direction information. Processor s also process the motion information direction information and or position information to determine pre defined gesture s undergone by the portable electronic device with respect to one or more points of interest of the set. In response to the pre defined gesture s the portable electronic device automatically makes a request based on the pre defined gesture s and identifier s associated with the one or more points of interest of the set.

The gesture based analysis component can determine a set of current gesture s based on one or more of the position information such as but not limited to GPS information output from position engine or subsystem the motion information such as but limited to accelerometer information of motion engine or subsystem or the direction information such as digital compass information output from direction engine or subsystem . Gesture based analysis component determines gesture s relative to gesture definitions which can be statically defined on the device defined by the user of the device retrieved from a gesture definition network provider not shown etc. Gesture history coupled with other place and point of interest information can be a rich source for intelligent applications or network services to understand context for a given device gesture based on historical interaction.

Device can include storage for storing any of position information motion information direction information gesture definitions gesture history application information etc. The device can also include a graphics subsystem display and associated user interface for display of information and or for receiving touchscreen input. An audio subsystem can also be included for voice or other sound input or sound output in connection with the provision of gesture and pointing based services.

For instance via network interface based on a current gesture an automatic request can be made to network data services based on the gesture and place or point of interest identification. As a result a variety of actions can take place e.g. targeted content advertising offers deals price comparisons etc. Local applications and storage are optional as any of the functionality of providing gesture based services can be pushed to the network data services or conversely functionality of data services can be implemented by a local application .

At gesture s undergone by a mobile device are determined based on direction motion information location information etc. i.e. the path of the device is discerned in 2 D or 3 D. At a search key representing intent of interaction with the pointer device at a current location is generated. Direction information can be basis for determining intent. At the current location and search key are transmitted to the service s . Based on the current location and given search key content from network service providers may be received. At the content from the network service providers is displayed e.g. online retailers a provider from the current location or third party entities having an interest in the current location search key pair. At the network service providers can be monetized by a billing system for the opportunity to provide the content at a relevant moment for the device user.

The collective information can be used to gain a sense of not only where the device is located in relation to other potential points of interest tracked or known by the overall set of services to understand what direction the user is pointing the device so that the services can appreciate at whom or what the user is pointing the device and to further gain a sense of how the user wishes to interact with the place or point of interest via the gesture information .

Gesture subsystem can be predicated on any one or more of the motion information location information or direction information . In this regard not only can direction information and location information be used to define a set of unique gestures but also motion information such as speed and acceleration can be used to define a more sophisticated set of gestures.

In this regard illustrates that a variety of pre defined gestures can be designed to represent gestures in a shopping environment such as but not limited to a barcode or text to search gesture that automatically initiates a search based on a barcode swipe or gesture with respect to a keyword a price comparison gesture e.g. comparing local online used goods a get online cashback options gesture that initiates an inquiry into deals pertaining to an item of interest an instant purchase gesture that enables an immediate purchase of an item of interest such as a ticket to an event an add to list gesture that automatically adds the item to a list or set of lists a get map to local stores gesture that retrieves local information via a local network about points of interest not generally available such as a topographical map laying out the store and various points of interest in that store and a give priority to current location gesture which biases one or more applications services requests etc. to a current location for purposes of shopping.

Similarly the following are some non limiting examples of shopping experiences and interactions that can be invoked by way of explicit input or a pre defined gesture via reviews user interface information about an item of interest e.g. a currently selected item request for user reviews request for expert reviews or request for graphical representations of product performance and or audio rendering .

To further illustrate the following are some non limiting examples of shopping experiences and interactions that can be invoked by way of explicit input or a pre defined gesture via request for price compare user interface request for lowest price ranking request for quantity size ranking request for best feedback ranking request for deal information e.g. insertion of coupon for 30 off in store item to encourage shopper to buy in store.

Like is another block diagram of a device in an exemplary embodiment illustrating a variety of gesture based actions that can be taken by device based on any of point of interest information location information motion information gesture information or other user intent information brokered by the device to network services via networks optionally via applications .

More specifically illustrates that a variety of pre defined gestures can be designed to represent gestures in a general environment having items or points of interest or locations that can be pointed at or to by a device such as but not limited to a request to analyze the image content of a viewfinder for context gesture such as show POIs for a location direction gesture e.g. show just businesses show only food options i.e. different gestures for different types of categories a wikipedia gesture that brings up Wikipedia knowledge regarding the given POI based on an associated keyword an hours gesture that brings up current status and when the POI maintains business hours a request for information about the POI gesture e.g. request for address phone fax website etc. a get directions to POI gesture or a get events discounts advertising associated with a POI gesture .

A non limiting implementation of scope definition is shown in scope of points of interest UI in which the user selects a degree of scope ranging for near to far . A similar exercise can be applied to set an elevation scope to capture towering POIs such as buildings mountains lighthouses etc. In this example POI is far whereas POI is near and so depending on how the gesture or input is made one or the other POI may be selected based on the scope of POIs. In one embodiment a tilt gesture achieves the desired effect by tilting the viewfinder of a camera up for example the scope is extended outwards whereas by tilting toward the ground the scope retracts inwards. A user can pre define unique gestures via a gesture definition application that help the user customize gestures of the phone that take action.

Once a person or persons are selected a user can gesture with the device in a variety of pre defined or user defined ways per the following non limiting examples initiate look through viewfinder for context gesture discover friends or other desired subscribers gesture call gesture start message gesture view person s website gesture e.g. Facebook MySpace Twitter add person to list gesture e.g. Friends Family Favorites find out schedule availability gesture or friend or flirt gesture e.g. make a heart shape in 2 D with the device with respect to a person.

Once a place and associated events are selected a user can gesture with the device in a variety of pre defined or user defined ways per the following non limiting examples request for information about events at location venue gesture show Show Times Dates gesture purchase tickets gesture find out hours gesture watch promotional content e.g. Trailers Video Photos etc. feedback to owner gesture e.g. digg thumbs up or down or a request for website gesture .

Once a property or properties are selected at a user can gesture with the device in a variety of pre defined or user defined ways per the following non limiting examples agent contact info gesture e.g. with automatic links for immediate contact multiple listing service MLS listing for house gesture request open house info gesture find out price gesture watch promotional content e.g. trailers video photos etc. give feedback to owner gesture e.g. digg thumbs up or down find out vendor info gesture e.g. find out who does the landscaping or a request for historical projected data gesture .

For instance a view manual user interface can be invoked by performing a view help gesture . View manual user interface may include product POI help index and correspondingly include the ability to search link to supplemental help or link to repair or service for the item as well as display a given section of the help information in section .

In the present non limiting implementation a user can add an item by geoplanting it and associating with a list and invoke geoplant and list user interface with list information distance from geoplant geoplant information e.g. store name and information directions or hours e.g. status open for 2 more hours or closed 10 minutes ago. 

With respect to the list an operation might be to see the list UI thereby bringing up grocery list user interface including a list of items e.g. can check of items as acquired ranking filter UI add manage sort items geoplant list share list or purchase item s online . Another operation with respect to groceries might be to see favorites via favorite groceries UI which may include a list of favorite items e.g. can check items as acquired ranking filter UI add manage sort items put on Hunt for list described in more detail below share list or view online content relating to item s e.g. ads.

To learn more about an item on the hunt list a user can select an item and invoke item level hunt user interface which can include item information nearest store information hours information related deals directions to store s or enable purchase of item s online .

At information about a selected point of interest is displayed as overlay over the image. At an action is requested with respect to the selected place or item e.g. show information directions etc. For example a user may wish to review the item or add to wikipedia knowledge about point of interest e.g. upload information images etc. In this regard because it is intuitive to give a 3 D perspective view when the viewing plane is orthogonal to the ground plane in the present embodiment a 3 D perspective view with POI information overlay is implemented when the device is held substantially in the vertical plane. In effect the camera shows the real space behind the device and indications of points of interest in that space as if the user was performing a scan of his or her surroundings with the device. Direction information of the device enables data and network services to know what the scope of objects for interaction with the device is.

At path information representing a path traversed by the portable device is determined based on direction information or motion information defining the path information to determine at least one gesture made by the portable device. Any of tilt spin rotation along any axes translation etc. can be taken into account for the path information when determining if a gesture has been made. In one non limiting embodiment the path information is represented as a set of vectors varying over time. A user can indicate that a gesture is about to be made and when it will stop by explicitly or implicitly defining a start of a gesture or an end of a gesture. This input for starting and stopping a gesture can itself be a gesture for starting or a gesture for stopping. In the same way a user can define a gesture but performing start and stop operations for defining the gesture and the path information between start and stop represents the user defined gesture.

At direction information representing an orientation of the portable device and the location information are processed to determine a point of interest to which the at least one gesture applies. At a request is transmitting e.g. automatically to a network service based on the at least one gesture and the point of interest.

Next to navigate to the POI or nearest POI in a given category the image input includes direction information that tells the user where to point the device . In this case the directions indicate to swivel the angle of the device or translate the device to the right to see more imagery to the right. Since the user still cannot see the target POI in this example the user again swivels the device to the right resulting in image input that includes the target POI and the direction of the user s outstretched arm points exactly to where the user wants to go. An intelligent algorithm can also be applied to directions taking into account that humans cannot yet walk through walls fences etc. or that cars by law must stay on streets etc. In this way a POI can be located and highlighted from which further operations can be defined. For instance the POI can be selected or otherwise acted upon consistent with any of the other embodiments described herein.

A representative interaction with a pointing device as provided in one or more embodiments herein is illustrated in . At location direction vector information is determined based on the device measurements. This information can be recorded so that a user s path or past can be used when predictively factoring what the user will be interested in next. At a place is determined for the device based on at least location information. Based on the vector information or more informally the act of pointing by the user at an object or point of interest is selected based on any of a variety of line of sight algorithms that fall within or outside of the vector path. It is noted that occlusion culling techniques can optionally be used to facilitate overlay techniques. Whether the point of interest at issue falls within the vector can factor in the error in precision of any of the measurements e.g. different GPS subsystems have different error in precision. In this regard one or more items or points of interest may be found along the vector path or arc within a certain distance depending on context or within scope.

At some action enables an explicit and or implicit selection of an item of interest within scope. Then any of a great variety of services can be performed with respect to any point of interest selected by the user via a user interface. In one aspect at interested parties can advertise based on the selection of the items of interest and parties can be compensated according to agreed upon advertising models.

For instance in an optional Quick Response QR support embodiment decompression allows users to take pictures of a QR code and process its contents where information has been encoded into a sticker printout for display outside of a business e.g. in the form of a copyrighted URL . The code need not be a QR code but could be any code that can be read or scanned or processed to determine its underlying content. For instance with a visual representation a picture can be taken and processed or with the bar code the device can scan it. RF identification technology could also be used. For the avoidance of doubt any encoded image format can be used like a bar code only one example of which is a QR code.

In effect this enables a query for POI information via a QR code or other encoding. The user scans or images the code with a device and then transmits the code to the service which translates the code into static and dynamically updated user information for display as a UI or other user interface representation so that the user can query about a POI merely by pointing at it. A URL for the POI can also be encoded in a format such as a QR code. In one non limiting embodiment the user can point the device at a QR code and decode a given image with the QR code.

The following description contains supplemental context regarding potential non limiting pointing devices architectures and associated services to further aid in understanding one or more of the above embodiments. Any one or more of any additional features described in this section can be accommodated in any one or more of the embodiments described above with respect to direction based services at a particular location. While such combinations of embodiments or features are possible for the avoidance of doubt no embodiments set forth in the subject disclosure should be considered limiting on any other embodiments described herein.

As mentioned a broad range of scenarios can be enabled by a device that can take location and direction information about the device and build a service on top of that information. For example by effectively using an accelerometer in coordination with an on board digital compass an application running on a mobile device updates what each endpoint is looking at or pointed towards attempting hit detection on potential points of interest to either produce real time information for the device or to allow the user to select a range or using the GPS a location on a map and set information such as Starbucks 10 off cappuccinos today or The Alamo site of . . . for others to discover. One or more accelerometers can also be used to perform the function of determining direction information for each endpoint as well. As described herein these techniques can become more granular to particular items within a Starbucks such as blueberry cheesecake on display in the counter enabling a new type of sale opportunity.

Accordingly a general device for accomplishing this includes a processing engine to resolve a line of sight vector sent from a mobile endpoint and a system to aggregate that data as a platform enabling a host of new scenarios predicated on the pointing information known for the device. The act of pointing with a device such as the user s mobile phone thus becomes a powerful vehicle for users to discover and interact with points of interest around the individual in a way that is tailored for the individual. Synchronization of data can also be performed to facilitate roaming and sharing of POV data and contacts among different users of the same service.

In a variety of embodiments described herein 2 dimensional 2D 3 dimensional 3D or N dimensional directional based search discovery and interactivity services are enabled for endpoints in the system of potential interest to the user.

In this regard the pointing information and corresponding algorithms ultimately depend upon the assets available in a device for producing the pointing or directional information. The pointing information however produced according to an underlying set of measurement components and interpreted by a processing engine can be one or more vectors. A vector or set of vectors can have a width or arc associated with the vector for any margin of error associated with the pointing of the device. A panning angle can be defined by a user with at least two pointing actions to encompass a set of points of interest e.g. those that span a certain angle defined by a panning gesture by the user.

In this respect a device can include a variety of spatial and map components and intelligence to determine intersections for directional arcs. For instance objects of interest could be represented with exact boundaries approximated with spheres subshells stores in a mall of a greater shell mall hierarchically arranged etc. Dynamically generated bounding boxes can also be implemented work i.e. any technique can be used to obtain boundary information for use in an intersection algorithm. Thus such boundaries can be implicitly or explicitly defined for the POIs.

Thus a device can include an intersection component that interprets pointing information relative to a set of potential points of interest. The engine can perform such intersections knowing what the resolution of the measuring instruments are on the device such as a given resolution of a GPS system. Such techniques can include taking into account how far a user is from a plane of objects of interest such as items on a shelf or wall the size of the item of interest and how that is defined as well as the resolution of location instrumentation such as the GPS system. The device can also optionally include an altimeter or any other device that gives altitude information such as measuring radar or sonar bounce from the floor. The altitude information can supplement existing location information for certain specialized services where points of interest vary significantly at different altitudes. It is noted that GPS itself has some information about altitude in its encoding.

In one non limiting embodiment a portable electronic device includes a positional component for receiving positional information as a function of a location of the portable electronic device a directional component that outputs direction information as a function of an orientation of the portable electronic device and a location based engine that processes the positional information and the direction information to determine a subset of points of interest relative to the portable electronic device as a function of at least the positional information and the direction information.

The positional component can be a positional GPS component for receiving GPS data as the positional information. The directional component can be a magnetic compass and or a gyroscopic compass that outputs the direction information. The device can include acceleration component s such as accelerometer s that outputs acceleration information associated with movement of the portable electronic device. The use of a separate sensor can also be used to further compensate for tilt and altitude adjustment calculations.

In one embodiment the device includes a cache memory for dynamically storing a subset of endpoints of interest that are relevant to the portable electronic device and at least one interface to a network service for transmitting the positional information and the direction information to the network service. In return based on real time changes to the positional information and direction pointing information the device dynamically receives in the cache memory an updated subset of endpoints that are potentially relevant to the portable electronic device.

For instance the subset of endpoints can be updated as a function of endpoints of interest within a pre defined distance substantially along a vector defined by the orientation of the portable electronic device. Alternatively or in addition the subset of endpoints can be updated as a function of endpoints of interest relevant to a current context of the portable electronic device. In this regard the device can include a set of Representational State Transfer REST based application programming interfaces APIs or other stateless set of APIs so that the device can communicate with the service over different networks e.g. Wi Fi a GPRS network etc. or communicate with other users of the service e.g. Bluetooth. For the avoidance of doubt the embodiments are in no way limited to a REST based implementation but rather any other state or stateful protocol could be used to obtain information from the service to the devices.

The directional component outputs direction information including compass information based on calibrated and compensated heading directionality information. The directional component can also include direction information indicating upward or downward tilt information associated with a current upward or downward tilt of the portable electronic device so that the services can detect when a user is pointing upwards or downwards with the device in addition to a certain direction. The height of the vectors itself can also be taken into account to distinguish between an event of pointing with a device from the top of a building likely pointing to other buildings bridges landmarks etc. and the same event from the bottom of the building likely pointing to a shop at ground level or towards a ceiling or floor to differentiate among shelves in a supermarket. A 3 axis magnetic field sensor can also be used to implement a compass to obtain tilt readings.

Secondary sensors such as altimeters or pressure readers can also be included in a mobile device and used to detect a height of the device e.g. what floor a device is on in a parking lot or floor of a department store changing the associated map floorplan data . Where a device includes a compass with a planar view of the world e.g. 2 axis compass the inclusion of one or more accelerometers in the device can be used to supplement the motion vector measured for a device as a virtual third component of the motion vector e.g. to provide measurements regarding a third degree of freedom. This option may be deployed where the provision of a 3 axis compass is too expensive or otherwise unavailable.

In this respect a gesturing component can also be included in the device to determine a current gesture of a user of the portable electronic device from a set of pre defined gestures. For example gestures can include zoom in zoom out panning to define an arc all to help filter over potential subsets of points of interest for the user.

For instance web services can effectively resolve vector coordinates sent from mobile endpoints into or other coordinates using location data such as GPS data as well as configurable synchronized POV information similar to that found in a GPS system in an automobile. In this regard any of the embodiments can be applied similarly in any motor vehicle device. One non limiting use is also facilitation of endpoint discovery for synchronization of data of interest to or from the user from or to the endpoint.

Among other algorithms for interpreting position motion direction information as shown in a device employing the direction based location based services as described herein in a variety of embodiments herein include a way to discern between near objects such as POI and far objects such as POI . Depending on the context of usage the time the user s past the device state the speed of the device the nature of the POIs etc. the service can determine a general distance associated with a motion vector. Thus a motion vector will implicate POI but not POI and the opposite would be true for motion vector .

In addition a device includes an algorithm for discerning items substantially along a direction at which the device is pointing and those not substantially along a direction at which the device is pointing. In this respect while motion vector might implicate POI without a specific panning gesture that encompassed more directions vectors POIs and would likely not be within the scope of points of interest defined by motion vector . The distance or reach of a vector can also be tuned by a user e.g. via a slider control or other control to quickly expand or contract the scope of endpoints encompassed by a given pointing interaction with the device.

In one non limiting embodiment the determination of at what or whom the user is pointing is performed by calculating an absolute Look vector within a suitable margin of error by a reading from an accelerometer s tilt and a reading from the magnetic compass. Then an intersection of endpoints determines an initial scope which can be further refined depending on the particular service employed i.e. any additional filter. For instance for an apartment search service endpoints falling within the look vector that are not apartments ready for lease can be pre filtered.

In addition to the look vector determination the engine can also compensate for or begin the look vector where the user is by establish positioning 15 feet through an A GPS stack or other location based or GPS subsystem including those with assistance strategies and also compensate for any significant movement acceleration of the device where such information is available.

As mentioned in another aspect a device can include a client side cache of potentially relevant points of interest which based on the user s movement history can be dynamically updated. The context such as geography speed etc. of the user can be factored in when updating. For instance if a user s velocity is 2 miles an hour the user may be walking and interested in updates at a city block by city block level or at a lower level granularity if they are walking in the countryside. Similarly if a user is moving on a highway at 60 miles per hour the block by block updates of information are no longer desirable but rather a granularity can be provided and predictively cached on the device that makes sense for the speed of the vehicle.

In an automobile context the location becomes the road on which the automobile is travelling and the particular items are the places and things that are passed on the roadside much like products in a particular retail store on a shelf or in a display. The pointing based services thus creates a virtual billboard opportunity for items of interest generally along a user s automobile path. Proximity to location can lead to an impulse buy e.g. a user might stop by a museum they are passing and pointing at with their device if offered a discount on admission.

In various alternative embodiments gyroscopic or magnetic compasses can provide directional information. A REST based architecture enables data communications to occur over different networks such as Wi Fi and GPRS architectures. REST based APIs can be used though any stateless messaging can be used that does not require a long keep alive for communicated data messages. This way since networks can go down with GPRS antennae seamless switching can occur to Wi Fi or Bluetooth networks to continue according to the pointing based services enabled by the embodiments described herein.

A device as provided herein according to one or more embodiments can include a file system to interact with a local cache store updates for synchronization to the service exchange information by Bluetooth with other users of the service etc. Accordingly operating from a local cache at least the data in the local cache is still relevant at a time of disconnection and thus the user can still interact with the data. Finally the device can synchronize according to any updates made at a time of re connection to a network or to another device that has more up to date GPS data POI data etc. In this regard a switching architecture can be adopted for the device to perform a quick transition from connectivity from one networked system e.g. cell phone towers to another computer network e.g. Wi Fi to a local network e.g. mesh network of Bluetooth connected devices .

With respect to user input a set of soft keys touch keys etc. can be provided to facilitate in the directional based pointing services provided herein. A device can include a windowing stack in order to overlay different windows or provide different windows of information regarding a point of interest e.g. hours and phone number window versus interactive customer feedback window . Audio can be rendered or handled as input by the device. For instance voice input can be handled by the service to explicitly point without the need for a physical movement of the device. For instance a user could say into a device what is this product right in front of me No not that one the one above it and have the device transmit current direction movement information to a service which in turn intelligently or iteratively determines what particular item of interest the user is pointing at and returns a host of relevant information about the item.

One non limiting way for determining a set of points of interest is illustrated in . In a device is pointed e.g. point and click in a direction D which according to the device or service parameters implicitly defines an area within arc and distance that encompasses POI but does not encompass POI . Such an algorithm will also need to determine any edge case POIs i.e. whether POIs such as POI are within the scope of pointing in direction D where the POI only partially falls within the area defined by arc and distance .

Other gestures that can be of interest in for a gesturing subsystem include recognizing a user s gesture for zoom in or zoom out. Zoom in zoom out can be done in terms of distance like . In a device pointed in direction D may include zoomed in view which includes points of interest within distance and arc or a medium zoomed view representing points of interest between distance and or a zoomed out view representing points of interest beyond distance . These zoom zones correspond to POIs and respectively. More or fewer zones can be considered depending upon a variety of factors the service user preference etc.

For another non limiting example with location information and direction information a user can input a first direction via a click and then a second direction after moving the device via a second click which in effect defines an arc for objects of interest in the system such as objects as illustrated in . For instance via first pointing act by the user at time t in direction D and a second pointing act at time t by the user in direction D an arc is implicitly defined. The area of interest implicitly includes a search of points of object within a distance which can be zoomed in and out or selected by the service based on a known granularity of interest selected by the user etc. This can be accomplished with a variety of forms of input to define the two directions. For instance the first direction can be defined upon a click and hold button event or other engage and hold user interface element and the second direction can be defined upon release of the button. Similarly two consecutive clicks corresponding to the two different directions D and D can also be implemented. In the example POI is encompassed by the arc defined by the gesture.

Also instead of focusing on real distance zooming in or out could also represent a change in terms of granularity or size or hierarchy of objects. For example a first pointing gesture with the device may result in a shopping mall appearing but with another gesture a user could carry out a recognizable gesture to gain or lose a level of hierarchical granularity with the points of interest on display. For instance after such gesture the points of interest could be zoomed in to the level of the stores at the shopping mall and what they are currently offering.

In addition a variety of even richer behaviors and gestures can be recognized when acceleration of the device in various axes can be discerned. Panning arm extension retraction swirling of the device backhand tennis swings breaststroke arm action golf swing motions could all signify something unique in terms of the behavior of the pointing device and this is to just name a few motions that could be implemented in practice. Thus any of the embodiments herein can define a set of gestures that serve to help the user interact with a set of services built on the pointing platform to help users easily gain information about points of information in their environment.

Furthermore with relatively accurate upward and downward tilt of the device in addition to directional information such as calibrated and compensated heading directional information other services can be enabled. Typically if a device is ground level the user is outside and the device is pointed up towards the top of buildings the granularity of information about points of interest sought by the user building level is different than if the user was pointing at the first floor shops of the building shops level even where the same compass direction is implicated. Similarly where a user is at the top of a landmark such as the Empire State building a downward tilt at the street level street level granularity would implicate information about different points of interest that if the user of the device pointed with relatively no tilt at the Statue of Liberty landmark building level of granularity .

Also when a device is moving in a car it may appear that direction is changing as the user maintains a pointing action on a single location but the user is still pointing at the same thing due to displacement. Thus thus time varying location can be factored into the mathematics and engine of resolving at what the user is pointing with the device to compensate for the user experience based upon which all items are relative.

Accordingly armed with the device s position one or more web or cloud services can analyze the vector information to determine at what or whom the user is looking pointing. The service can then provide additional information such as ads specials updates menus happy hour choices etc. depending on the endpoint selected the context of the service the location urban or rural the time night or day etc. As a result instead of a blank contextless Internet search a form of real time visual search for users in real 3 D environments is provided.

In one non limiting embodiment the direction based pointing services are implemented in connection with a pair of glasses headband etc. having a corresponding display means that acts in concert with the user s looking to highlight or overlay features of interest around the user.

As shown in once a set of objects is determined from the pointing information according to a variety of contexts of a variety of services a mobile device can display the objects via representation according to a variety of user experiences tailored to the service at issue. For instance a virtual camera experience can be provided where POI graphics or information can be positioned relative to one another to simulate an imaging experience. A variety of other user interface experiences can be provided based on the pointing direction as well.

For instance a set of different choices are shown in . UI and illustrate navigation of hierarchical POI information. For instance level1 categories may include category1 category2 category3 category4 and category5 but if a user selects around the categories with a thumb wheel up down control or the like and chooses one such as category2. Then subcategory1 subcategory2 subcategory3 and subcategory4 are displayed as subcategories of category2. Then if the user selects for instance subcategory4 perhaps few enough POIs such as buildings and are found in the subcategory in order to display on a 2D map UI along the pointing direction or alternatively as a 3D virtual map view along the pointing direction.

When things change from the perspective of either the service or the client a synchronization process can bring either the client or service respectively up to date. In this way an ecosystem is enabled where a user can point at an object or point of interest gain information about it that is likely to be relevant to the user interact with the information concerning the point of interest and add value to services ecosystem where the user interacts. The system thus advantageously supports both static and dynamic content.

Other user interfaces can be considered such as left right or up down arrangements for navigating categories or a special set of soft keys can be adaptively provided.

Where a device includes a camera in one embodiment shown in a representative non limiting overlay UI is shown having 3 POIs POI1 POI2 and POI3. The POIs are overlaid over actual image data being real time viewed on the device via an LCD screen or like display. The actual image data can be of products on a shelf or other display or exhibit in a store. Thus as the user aims the camera around his or her environment the lens becomes the pointer and the POI information can be overlaid intelligently for discovery of endpoints of interest. Moreover a similar embodiment can be imagined even without a camera such as a UI in which 3 D objects are virtually represented based on real geometries known for the objects relative to the user. Thus the device UI can be implemented consistent with a camera or a virtual camera view for intuitive use of such devices. The pointer mechanism of the device could also switch based on whether the user was currently in live view mode for the camera or not. Moreover assuming sufficient processing power and storage real time image processing could discern an object of interest and based on image signatures overlay POI information over such image in a similar manner to the above embodiments. In this regard with the device provided herein a variety of gestures can be employed to zoom in zoom out perform tilt detection for looking down or up or panning across a field of view to obtain a range of POIs associated with the panning scope.

With respect to a representative set of user settings a number or maximum number of desired endpoints delivered as results can be configured. How to filter can also be configured e.g. 5 most likely 5 closest 5 closest to 100 feet away 5 within category or sub category alphabetical order etc. In each case based on a pointing direction implicitly a cone or other cross section across physical space is defined as a scope of possible points of interest. In this regard the width or deepness of this cone or cross section can be configurable by the user to control the accuracy of the pointing e.g. narrow or wide radius of points and how far out to search.

To support processing of vector information and aggregating POI databases from third parties a variety of storage techniques such as relational storage techniques can be used. For instance Virtual Earth data can be used for mapping and aggregation of POI data can occur from third parties such as Tele Atlas NavTeq etc. In this regard businesses not in the POI database will want to be discovered and thus the service provides a similar but far superior from a spatial relevance standpoint Yellow Pages experiences where businesses will desire to have their additional information such as menus price sheets coupons pictures virtual tours etc. accessible via the system.

In addition a synchronization platform or framework can keep the roaming caches in sync thereby capturing what users are looking at and efficiently processing changes. Or where a user goes offline local changes can be recorded and when the user goes back online such local changes can be synchronized to the network or service store. Also since the users are in effect pulling information they care about in the here and in the now through the act of pointing with the device the system generates high cost per thousand impression CPM rates as compared to other forms of demographic targeting. Moreover the system drives impulse buys since the user may not be physically present in a store but the user may be near the object and by being nearby and pointing at the store information about a sale concerning the object can be sent to the user.

As mentioned different location subsystems such as tower triangulation GPS A GPS E GPS etc. have different tolerances. For instance with GPS tolerances can be achieved to about 10 meters. With A GPS tolerances can be tightened to about 12 feet. In turn with E GPS tolerance may be a different error margin still. Compensating for the different tolerances is part of the interpretation engine for determining intersection of a pointing vector and a set of points of interest. In addition as shown in a distance to project out the pointing vector can be explicit configurable contextual etc.

In this regard the various embodiments described herein can employ any algorithm for distinguishing among boundaries of the endpoints such as boundary boxes or rectangles triangles circles etc. As a default radius e.g. 150 feet could be selected and such value can be configured or be context sensitive to the service provided. On line real estate sites can be leveraged for existing POI information. Since different POI databases may track different information at different granularities a way of normalizing the POI data according to one convention or standard can also be implemented so that the residential real estate location data of Zillow can be integrated with GPS information from Starbucks of all the Starbucks by country.

In addition similar techniques can be implemented in a moving vehicle client that includes GPS compass accelerometer etc. By filtering based on scenarios e.g. I need gas different subsets of points of interest e.g. gas stations can be determined for the user based not only on distance but actual time it may take to get to the point of interest. In this regard while a gas station may be 100 yards to the right off the highway the car may have already passed the corresponding exit and thus more useful information to provide is what gas station will take the least amount of time to drive from a current location based on direction location so as to provide predictive points of interest that are up ahead on the road and not already aged points of interest that would require turning around from one s destination in order to get to them.

For existing motor vehicle navigation devices or other conventional portable GPS navigation devices where a device does not natively include directional means such as a compass the device can have an extension slot that accommodates direction information from an external directional device such as a compass. Similarly for laptops or other portable electronic devices such devices can be outfitted with a card or board with a slot for a compass. While any of the services described herein can make web service calls as part of the pointing and retrieval of endpoint process as mentioned one advantageous feature of a user s locality in real space is that it is inherently more limited than a general Internet search for information. As a result a limited amount of data can be predictively maintained on a user s device in cache memory and properly aged out as data becomes stale.

While there are a variety of implementations and ways to sub divide regions whether overlapping or not predictive caching and aging is conceptually illustrated by in which a user s present location is discerned. At this point the local cache still includes age out candidate location but as the velocity of the user indicates the user will be at predicted locations and in the future these regions of POIs are downloaded to the mobile device. Accordingly as the user travels to predicted location it starts to be clear that the user no longer needs the data from the age out candidate location which can then be removed or flagged for removal when storage is challenged.

Accordingly using the regional data cache callbacks and an update mechanism that is updated dynamically based on movement new point of interest can be added by a service or by a user. Update is thus performed continuously or substantially continuously based on updated travel velocity speed etc. In this regard a user can add a new point of interest in the region add info to a local cache and then upload to the zone. To appreciate the problem the number of worldwide POIs is practically limitless however only a small number of POIs will be relevant to a user at a given time. Thus predictively a cube of data can be taken to the device the user can go offline such that when the user reconnects the device is intelligent to figure out what has changed been weighted etc. so that the device can synchronize with the network services and expose the user s changes for other people.

The predictive algorithms again depend on what the user is interested in finding what service the user may be using the context of the user etc. They can also be based on velocity direction time etc. For instance if it is nighttime assumptions based on demographics or preferences may lead the device to return information about nightclubs or all night diners. Or instead of giving directions as driving directions that calculate distances as absolute distances i.e. as the crow flies a device can take road curves into account since instantaneous pointing information on roads can be collected and handled by a corresponding service when giving driving directions. Or as another alternative the direction one is heading on a road such as a highway with a concrete divider is relevant to the directions that a navigation system should give. Where a U turn is unavailable and user passes an exit with a point of interest for instance directions should take this into account and consider the heading of the vehicle.

Any device can include the embodiments described herein including MP3 players such as a Zune device GPS navigation devices bike computers sunglass visor systems motor vehicles mobile phones laptops PDA etc.

One way to obtain the service applications assuming the underlying measuring instruments to participate in the real time gathering of directional information is to message to a service to obtain the application e.g. by text messaging to service or getting a client download link. Another vehicle for enabling the service is to provide it natively in the operating system or applications of a mobile devices. Since a hardware abstraction layer accommodates different methods for collecting position direction acceleration information the same platform can be used on any device regardless of the precise underlying hardware.

In another aspect of any of the embodiments described herein because stateless messaging is employed if communications drop with one network the device can begin further communicating via another network. For instance a device has two channels and a user gets on a bus but no longer have GPRS or GPS activity. Nonetheless the user is able to get the information the device needs from some other channel. Just because a tower or satellites are down does not mean that the device cannot connect through an alternative channel e.g. the bus s GPS location information via Bluetooth.

With respect to exemplary mobile client architectures a representative device can include as described variously herein client Side Storage for housing and providing fast access to cached POI data in the current region including associated dynamically updated or static information such as annotations coupons from businesses etc. This includes usage data tracking and storage. In addition regional data can be a cached subset of the larger service data always updated based on the region in which the client is roaming. For instance POI data could include as a non limiting example the following information 

Support for different kinds of information e.g. blob v structured information blob for storage and media structured for tags annotations etc. 

A device can also include usage data and preferences to hold settings as well as usage data such as coupons activated waypoints businesses encountered per day other users encountered etc. to be analyzed by the cloud services for business intelligence analysis and reporting.

A device can also include a continuous update mechanism which is a service that maintains the client s cached copy of a current region updated with the latest. Among other ways this can be achieved with a ping to pull model that pre fetches and swaps out the client s cached region using travel direction and speed to facilitate roaming among different regions. This is effectively a paging mechanism for upcoming POIs. This also includes sending a new or modified POI for the region with annotations coupons sending a new or modified annotation for the POIs with coupons or sending a new or modified coupon for the POI.

A device can also include a Hardware Abstraction Layer HAL having components responsible for abstracting the way the client communicates with the measuring instruments e.g. the GPS driver for positioning and LOS accuracy e.g. open eGPS magnetic compass for heading and rotational information e.g. gyroscopic one or more accelerometers for gestured input and tilt achieves 3D positional algorithms assuming gyroscopic compass .

As described earlier a device can also include methods interfaces to make REST calls via GPRS Wi Fi and a file system and storage for storing and retrieving the application data and settings.

A device can also include user input and methods to map input to the virtual keys. For instance one non limiting way to accomplish user input is to have softkeys as follows though it is to be understood a great variety of user inputs can be used to achieve interaction with the user interfaces of the pointing based services.

In addition a representative device can include a graphics and windowing stack to render the client side UI as well as an audio stack to play sounds alerts.

As mentioned such a device may also include spatial and math computational components including a set of APIs to perform 3D collision testing between subdivided surfaces such as spherical shells e.g. a simple hit testing model to adopt and boundary definitions for POIs rotate points and cull as appropriate from conic sections.

As described in various embodiments herein illustrate two processes for a device when location e.g. GPS and direction e.g. compass events occur. In upon the occurrence of a location or direction event at it is determined whether predictive caching should be initiated for a next region to which a user is travelling. At if so then the next region of data can be pre fetched. At old regional data no longer of relevance can be aged out. At any usage data can be uploaded to the service framework for business intelligence input to an advertisement engine etc.

At upon selection of a POI static content is determined and any dynamic content is acquired via synchronization. When new data becomes available it is downloaded to stay up to date. At POI information is filtered further by user specific information e.g. if it is the user s first time at the store returning customer loyalty program member live baseball game offer for team clothing discounts etc. . At static and dynamic content that is up to date is rendered for the POI. In addition updates and or interaction with POI information is allowed which can be synced back to the service.

One of ordinary skill in the art can appreciate that the various embodiments of methods and devices for pointing based services and related embodiments described herein can be implemented in connection with any computer or other client or server device which can be deployed as part of a computer network or in a distributed computing environment and can be connected to any kind of data store. In this regard the various embodiments described herein can be implemented in any computer system or environment having any number of memory or storage units and any number of applications and processes occurring across any number of storage units. This includes but is not limited to an environment with server computers and client computers deployed in a network environment or a distributed computing environment having remote or local storage.

Each object etc. and computing objects or devices etc. can communicate with one or more other objects etc. and computing objects or devices etc. by way of the communications network either directly or indirectly. Even though illustrated as a single element in network may comprise other computing objects and computing devices that provide services to the system of and or may represent multiple interconnected networks which are not shown. Each object etc. or etc. can also contain an application such as applications that might make use of an API or other object software firmware and or hardware suitable for communication with or implementation of the user profiling in a transaction and advertising platform as provided in accordance with various embodiments.

There are a variety of systems components and network configurations that support distributed computing environments. For example computing systems can be connected together by wired or wireless systems by local networks or widely distributed networks. Currently many networks are coupled to the Internet which provides an infrastructure for widely distributed computing and encompasses many different networks though any network infrastructure can be used for exemplary communications made incident to the techniques as described in various embodiments.

Thus a host of network topologies and network infrastructures such as client server peer to peer or hybrid architectures can be utilized. In a client server architecture particularly a networked system a client is usually a computer that accesses shared network resources provided by another computer e.g. a server. In the illustration of as a non limiting example computers etc. can be thought of as clients and computers etc. can be thought of as servers where servers etc. provide data services such as receiving data from client computers etc. storing of data processing of data transmitting data to client computers etc. although any computer can be considered a client a server or both depending on the circumstances. Any of these computing devices may be processing data or requesting services or tasks that may implicate the improved user profiling and related techniques as described herein for one or more embodiments.

A server is typically a remote computer system accessible over a remote or local network such as the Internet or wireless network infrastructures. The client process may be active in a first computer system and the server process may be active in a second computer system communicating with one another over a communications medium thus providing distributed functionality and allowing multiple clients to take advantage of the information gathering capabilities of the server. Any software objects utilized pursuant to the user profiling can be provided standalone or distributed across multiple computing devices or objects.

In a network environment in which the communications network bus is the Internet for example the servers etc. can be Web servers with which the clients etc. communicate via any of a number of known protocols such as the hypertext transfer protocol HTTP . Servers etc. may also serve as clients etc. as may be characteristic of a distributed computing environment.

As mentioned various embodiments described herein apply to any device wherein it may be desirable to perform pointing based services. It should be understood therefore that handheld portable and other computing devices and computing objects of all kinds are contemplated for use in connection with the various embodiments described herein i.e. anywhere that a device may request pointing based services. Accordingly the below general purpose remote computer described below in is but one example and the embodiments of the subject disclosure may be implemented with any client having network bus interoperability and interaction.

Although not required any of the embodiments can partly be implemented via an operating system for use by a developer of services for a device or object and or included within application software that operates in connection with the operable component s . Software may be described in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by one or more computers such as client workstations servers or other devices. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that network interactions may be practiced with a variety of computer system configurations and protocols.

With reference to an exemplary remote device for implementing one or more embodiments herein can include a general purpose computing device in the form of a handheld computer . Components of handheld computer may include but are not limited to a processing unit a system memory and a system bus that couples various system components including the system memory to the processing unit .

Computer typically includes a variety of computer readable media and can be any available media that can be accessed by computer . The system memory may include computer storage media in the form of volatile and or nonvolatile memory such as read only memory ROM and or random access memory RAM . By way of example and not limitation memory may also include an operating system application programs other program modules and program data.

A user may enter commands and information into the computer through input devices A monitor or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus via an interface such as output interface . In addition to a monitor computers may also include other peripheral output devices such as speakers and a printer which may be connected through output interface .

The computer may operate in a networked or distributed environment using logical connections to one or more other remote computers such as remote computer . The remote computer may be a personal computer a server a router a network PC a peer device or other common network node or any other remote media consumption or transmission device and may include any or all of the elements described above relative to the computer . The logical connections depicted in include a network such local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN but may also include other networks buses. Such networking environments are commonplace in homes offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet.

As mentioned above while exemplary embodiments have been described in connection with various computing devices networks and advertising architectures the underlying concepts may be applied to any network system and any computing device or system in which it is desirable to derive information about surrounding points of interest.

There are multiple ways of implementing one or more of the embodiments described herein e.g. an appropriate API tool kit driver code operating system control standalone or downloadable software object etc. which enables applications and services to use the pointing based services. Embodiments may be contemplated from the standpoint of an API or other software object as well as from a software or hardware object that provides pointing platform services in accordance with one or more of the described embodiments. Various implementations and embodiments described herein may have aspects that are wholly in hardware partly in hardware and partly in software as well as in software.

The word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. For the avoidance of doubt the subject matter disclosed herein is not limited by such examples. In addition any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs nor is it meant to preclude equivalent exemplary structures and techniques known to those of ordinary skill in the art. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes has contains and other similar words are used in either the detailed description or the claims for the avoidance of doubt such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as an open transition word without precluding any additional or other elements.

As mentioned the various techniques described herein may be implemented in connection with hardware or software or where appropriate with a combination of both. As used herein the terms component system and the like are likewise intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on computer and the computer can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

The aforementioned systems have been described with respect to interaction between several components. It can be appreciated that such systems and components can include those components or specified sub components some of the specified components or sub components and or additional components and according to various permutations and combinations of the foregoing. Sub components can also be implemented as components communicatively coupled to other components rather than included within parent components hierarchical . Additionally it should be noted that one or more components may be combined into a single component providing aggregate functionality or divided into several separate sub components and any one or more middle layers such as a management layer may be provided to communicatively couple to such sub components in order to provide integrated functionality. Any components described herein may also interact with one or more other components not specifically described herein but generally known by those of skill in the art.

In view of the exemplary systems described supra methodologies that may be implemented in accordance with the disclosed subject matter will be better appreciated with reference to the flowcharts of the various figures. While for purposes of simplicity of explanation the methodologies are shown and described as a series of blocks it is to be understood and appreciated that the claimed subject matter is not limited by the order of the blocks as some blocks may occur in different orders and or concurrently with other blocks from what is depicted and described herein. Where non sequential or branched flow is illustrated via flowchart it can be appreciated that various other branches flow paths and orders of the blocks may be implemented which achieve the same or a similar result. Moreover not all illustrated blocks may be required to implement the methodologies described hereinafter.

While the various embodiments have been described in connection with the preferred embodiments of the various figures it is to be understood that other similar embodiments may be used or modifications and additions may be made to the described embodiment for performing the same function without deviating therefrom. Still further one or more aspects of the above described embodiments may be implemented in or across a plurality of processing chips or devices and storage may similarly be effected across a plurality of devices. Therefore the present invention should not be limited to any single embodiment but rather should be construed in breadth and scope in accordance with the appended claims.

