---

title: Automated video trailer creation
abstract: Methods, systems, and computer program products for automatic creation of video trailers are provided. A computer-implemented method may include computing blended audience retention for video segments based on audience retention rates for each of the video segments across corresponding points in time, analyzing the blended audience retention for the video segments across corresponding points in time, identifying one or more audience engagement peaks for the video segments based on the analyzing, selecting one or more video clips from the video segments based on the identified audience engagement peaks, and generating a video trailer using the selected video clips into a new video.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09002175&OS=09002175&RS=09002175
owner: Google Inc.
number: 09002175
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130313
---
The field generally relates to video content and more particularly to generating samples of video content.

Many websites including video sharing and social networking sites allow users to share their own videos both publicly and privately. Recent technological advancements also have made it increasingly convenient for users to record and share their videos with others. For example smartphones with one or more high quality digital cameras abundant storage space and mobile broadband have made it very easy for users to capture and distribute their videos from virtually anywhere.

A video channel is a collection or grouping of videos that may be associated with for example a particular user subject or theme. A user may promote a video channel to generate interest subscribers and views from others. However users do not typically promote online video channels with video trailers because the process of creating a trailer is manual complex and time consuming. Further video trailer creation requires video editing software editing skills and is costly to produce.

Embodiments generally relate to the automated generation of video trailers. In one embodiment a processor computes blended audience retention for video segments based on audience retention rates for each of the video segments across corresponding points in time. The processor analyzes the blended audience retention for the video segments across corresponding points in time. The processor identifies one or more audience engagement peaks for the video segments based on the analyzing selects one or more video clips from the video segments based on the identified audience engagement peaks and generates a video trailer using the selected video clips into a new video.

In another embodiment a system including a memory and a processing device coupled with the memory is configured to compute blended audience retention for video segments based on audience retention rates for each of the video segments across corresponding points in time. The system is also configured to analyze the blended audience retention for the video segments across corresponding points in time. The system identifies one or more audience engagement peaks for the video segments based on the analyzing selects one or more video clips from the video segments based on the identified audience engagement peaks and generates a video trailer using the selected video clips into a new video.

In a further embodiment a computer readable medium has instructions stored thereon that when executed by a processor cause the processor to perform operations. The instructions include computer readable program code configured to cause the processor to compute blended audience retention for video segments based on audience retention rates for each of the video segments across corresponding points in time analyze the blended audience retention for the video segments across corresponding points in time identify one or more audience engagement peaks for the video segments based on the analyzing select one or more video clips from the video segments based on the identified audience engagement peaks and generate a video trailer using the selected video clips into a new video.

Further embodiments features and advantages of the disclosure as well as the structure and operation of the various embodiments of the disclosure are described in detail below with reference to accompanying drawings.

Millions of people share and view user generated videos online each day. However only a very small percentage of users choose to promote their online videos with video trailers. Video trailers are not typically used to promote online videos because of the associated complexity and expense. For example creating a video trailer is a manual and time consuming process which usually requires video editing software and editing skills. Further it is costly to outsource video trailer creation and new content is typically added to channels on a regular basis. Therefore most users choose to promote their online videos by other means or not at all.

Systems methods and computer program products for automatic creation of video trailers are provided. Embodiments of the present disclosure allow a user to automatically generate a video trailer from a collection of videos. For example a user may submit a request to generate a promotional video trailer advertisement for one or more video channels on a video sharing website or via an application running on a user device e.g. a mobile phone or a tablet .

The video sharing website may receive the user request and select one or more interesting or popular videos from the channels to consider. The video sharing website may analyze video segments from the selected videos by comparing audience retention throughout a video segment to the average audience retention computed for a group of video segments. The video sharing website may identify audience engagement peaks within the video segments based on the analysis and select video clips corresponding to the identified audience engagement peaks. The video sharing website then may generate a video trailer by combining the video clips into a new video. The generated video trailer may be provided to a user for consideration and approval. Once approved the generated video trailer may be used to promote the online video channels to other users.

Accordingly aspects of the present disclosure allow users to create appealing and informative video trailers for channels with minimal effort. Thus channel administrators will be more likely to promote channels using video trailers and other users will be more likely to discover content of interest by viewing the video trailers.

Data store is persistent storage that is capable of storing various types of data such as video and image content. In some embodiments data store might be a network attached file server while in other embodiments data store might be some other type of persistent storage such as an object oriented database a relational database and so forth. Data store may include user generated content e.g. user generated videos that is uploaded by client machines A N. The data may additionally or alternatively include content provided by one or more other parties. Video content may be added to the data store as discrete files e.g. motion picture experts group MPEG files windows media video WMV files joint photographic experts group JPEG files graphics interchange format GIF files portable network graphics PNG files etc. or as components of a single compressed file e.g. a zip file .

The client machines A N may be personal computers PC laptops mobile phones tablet computers or any other computing device. The client machines A N may run an operating system OS that manages hardware and software of the client machines A N. A browser not shown may run on the client machines e.g. on the OS of the client machines . The browser may be a web browser that can access content served by a web server. The browser may display video content and other visual media provided by a web server and may allow editing of videos and other visual media.

Server machine may be a rackmount server a router computer a personal computer a portable digital assistant a mobile phone a laptop computer a tablet computer a camera a video camera a netbook a desktop computer a media center or any combination of the above. Server machine may include a web server and a video trailer generation system . In some embodiments the web server and video trailer generation system may run on one or more different machines.

Web server may serve video content from data store to clients A N. Clients A N may locate access and view video content from web server using a web browser. Web server also may receive video content from clients A N that is saved in data store for purposes that may include preservation and distribution.

Web server may receive queries for video content and perform searches for video content using data store to locate video data satisfying the search queries. Web server may then send to a client A N video data results matching the search query. In one embodiment web server provides an application configured to allow clients A N to upload preview edit display generate publish and promote video content. Such functionality may be provided for example as one or more different web applications standalone applications systems plugins web browser extensions and application programming interfaces APIs . In particular some clients A N can include applications that are associated with a service provided by server . Examples of client machines that may use such applications apps include mobile phones smart televisions tablet computers and so forth. The applications or apps may access content provided by server issue commands to server receive content from server and so on without visiting web pages of server . In general functions described in one embodiment as being performed by server or web server can also be performed on the client machines A N in other embodiments if appropriate. In addition the functionality attributed to a particular component can be performed by different or multiple components operating together. The server can also be accessed as a service provided to other systems or devices through appropriate application programming interfaces and thus is not limited to use in websites.

A video is a set of sequential image frames representing a scene in motion. For example a series of sequential images may be captured continuously or later reconstructed to produce animation. Video content may be presented in various formats including but not limited to analog digital two dimensional and three dimensional video. Further video content may include movies video clips or any set of animated images to be displayed in sequence.

Video trailer generation system may automatically generate one or more video trailers from a collection of videos. A video trailer may be for example a short video advertisement used to promote one or more other videos. A video trailer may highlight one or more interesting scenes or exchanges within the other videos as a way of generating interest views and followers.

In one example video trailer generation system may select one or more interesting or popular videos from a collection of videos that have been uploaded by one or more clients A N. Video trailer generation system then may analyze portions of the selected videos to identify popular video clips based on previous viewings. Video trailer generation system then may generate a video trailer automatically using the selected video clips.

In an embodiment web server provides an application to clients A N. The application may include a graphical user interface configured to allow users to upload display manage generate publish and promote video content. The application also may include or utilize a video trailer generation system .

In one embodiment video trailer generation system may receive a request to generate a video trailer from a collection of one or more videos. The request for example may be initiated by a user in real time or may be a previously or regularly scheduled request. A request to generate a video trailer also may be received in response to a corresponding suggestion provided to a user. A user may initiate a request to generate a video trailer for example by using one or more commands e.g. voice text motion or by performing one or more actions interactions with the graphical user interface e.g. button click keyboard shortcut . Further video trailer generation may occur based on one or more of a system setting user preference user request or default.

In an embodiment a graphical user interface is configured to allow a user to initiate generation of a video trailer to preview one or more generated video trailers to rate one or more generated video trailers to approve one or more generated video trailers and to store one or more generated video trailers. The graphical user interface also may be configured to allow a user to publish and or promote a generated video trailer as part of an advertising campaign.

A video trailer may be generated using one or more different types of content available for a channel or group of channels. A channel generally describes data or content available from a common source or having a common subject or theme. A channel may contain information in the form of audio clips movie clips TV clips and music videos as well as content such as blogs social media pages short original videos pictures photos articles avatars software programs games etc.

In an embodiment automated video trailer generation system is coupled to data store and working data store . Data store includes video data . Working data store includes temporary video data .

Video data generally refers to any type of moving image which includes but is not limited to movie films videos digital videos and other forms of animated drawings or display. For example video data may include digital videos having a sequence of static image frames that also may be stored as image data. Thus each image frame may represent a snapshot of a scene that has been captured according to a time interval.

Video data may include computer animations including two dimensional and three dimensional graphics. Video data also may include any sequence of images including graphical drawings that create an illusion of movement.

In an embodiment automated video trailer generation system utilizes working data store as a temporary storage space to perform calculations analyze video data and generate video trailers. Working data store may include for example any type or combination of volatile and non volatile storage e.g. disk memory .

In one embodiment working data store contains temporary video data . For example temporary video data may include one or more copies of video data such as an original version a modified version or a generated video trailer.

Working data store also may include temporary data and results produced by video trailer generation system . For example working data store may include one or more selected videos one or more of video segments from the selected videos one or more video clips identified from the video segments one or more adjusted video clips and one or more video trailers generated from the video clips. Further video trailer generation system may use working data store for example to perform calculations to persist intermediate processing results and to provide generated video trailers to users for review approval and or distribution.

Request receiving module receives requests from users to generate video trailers. For example a user managing a collection of one or more videos on website may request automatic generation of one or more video trailers. Request receiving module may receive the user request and initiate video trailer generation processing for the collection of videos.

In another embodiment request receiving module receives a system request to generate a video trailer for a collection of one or more videos. For example one or more video trailers may be generated automatically for a video collection without user input. The generated video trailers then may be provided to user automatically for review and consideration.

Video selection module determines which videos from a collection will be considered as part of the video trailer generation process. In an embodiment video selection module selects one or more videos to analyze from a video collection.

In one example many different videos may exist as part of an online video channel. However some videos are more interesting and more popular than others. For example videos with the most views the most likes the most comments the most shares the most recommendations and or the most follow on views may be considered the most desirable content to promote because of the associated interest. Video selection module may analyze and compare one or more attributes of videos to determine which videos will be considered in the video trailer generation process.

Video analysis module analyzes video segments from selected videos and identifies audience engagement peaks occurring in the video segments. In an embodiment video analysis module determines one or more video segments to analyze from each of the selected videos. In an example video segments may be determined based on a uniform or near uniform length to facilitate comparison of the video segments that otherwise might be of unequal lengths.

In one embodiment video analysis module computes blended audience retention for a set of video segments. For example video analysis module may average the computed audience retention rate throughout each of a plurality of equal length or near equal length video segments. Blended audience retention generally refers to averaging audience retention rates e.g. a percentage of retained viewers across a number of video segments. In one example blended audience retention for a set of video segments may reflect an average audience retention rate as measured at a plurality of different time intervals e.g. every second or continuously throughout the duration of the video segments.

In one embodiment video analysis module analyzes the video segments by comparing audience retention computed in each of the video segments to the blended audience retention computed for the group of video segments. For example video analysis module may compare audience retention of a video segment to the blended audience retention at corresponding time intervals to compute a relative retention ratio. For example a video segment with an audience retention rate of 80 at a point in time e.g. 80 out of 100 viewers continued to watch the video at a point in time could be compared to blended audience retention of 40 for all of the video segments at a corresponding point in time. Thus the video segment may be said to have an audience retention ratio of 2.0 i.e. two times the average rate as compared to the blended audience retention.

In one embodiment video analysis module identifies one or more audience engagement peaks for the video segments. In one example video analysis module determines audience engagement peaks in a video segment based on one or more of the largest audience retention ratio values computed for a video segment.

In one embodiment video analysis module selects one or more video clips from the video segments based on identified audience engagement peaks. For example video analysis module may identify one or more audience engagement peaks in a video segment based on the highest computed relative retention ratios.

In one example video analysis module may identify an audience engagement peak within one or more video segments based on the highest relative retention ratios computed for each of the video segments. Video analysis module also may identify a plurality of audience engagement peaks in one or more video segments for example by choosing one or more of the highest distributed relative retention ratios computed for each of the video segments.

In an embodiment video analysis module selects one or more video clips from the video segments based on the identified audience engagement peaks. In one example video analysis module selects a video clip from a video segment by capturing a portion of the video segment around an identified audience engagement peak. e.g. 10 seconds before and 5 seconds after each identified audience engagement peak .

Video trailer generation module generates video trailers by assembling and adjusting selected video clips into a new video. In an embodiment video trailer generation module receives a set of selected video clips from video analysis module . Video trailer generation module then may adjust the selected video clips by arranging a sequence shortening video clip length providing visual transitions providing audio transitions removing audio applying a new soundtrack and or applying textual description related to an associated video channel.

Video trailer delivery module provides a generated video trailer to a user. In an example video trailer delivery module may receive a generated video trailer from video trailer generation module . Video trailer delivery module then may provide the generated video trailer to a requesting user e.g. video channel administrator for review and approval.

In another example video trailer delivery module also may provide the generated video trailer as an advertisement presented to other users. For example the generated video trailer may be displayed in an advertising space on a website or before playing another online video to promote a video channel associated with the generated video trailer.

Method begins at stage when blended audience retention is computed across a set of video segments. In one example a set of one or more video segments from one or more videos are provided. Each of the video segments may be the same length may be nearly the same length or may be of different lengths. Further each of the video segments may be associated audience retention data.

In an example a video may have an audience retention rate from 0 100 at any point in time throughout the video s duration. The audience retention rate may be determined by comparing a number of viewers who continue to watch a video at a point in time to the total number of users that have viewed the video. For example if 100 users have viewed a video and 75 of the users continued to watch the video at the two minute mark then the audience retention rate would be 75 at that point in time. Audience retention data for a video may be provided with the video as pre collected information or may be collected and compiled from one or more other sources.

In an example generally illustrates audience retention for a video according to an embodiment. Diagram includes general audience retention ranges video time scale a point in time within the video measured audience retention throughout the video i.e. audience retention curve and an audience retention rate measured at a specific point in time .

In one embodiment video analysis module uses audience retention data to compute blended audience retention for a group of video segments. For example video analysis module may average audience retention rates across a set of equal length or near equal length video segments.

In one example the audience retention rates used to compute blended audience retention for a set of video segments may be weighted equally. For example audience retention at a single point in time for three different videos may be 1 80 2 70 and 3 30 . Thus blended audience retention for the single point in time would be 60 i.e. 180 3 .

In another example the audience retention rates used to compute blended audience retention may be weighted based on one or more factors. In one example blended audience retention may be computed based on a number of user views not straight percentages as computed above . Thus a video with a higher number of views would have greater influence and a video with fewer views would have less influence in blended audience retention computations. Stage may be performed by for example video analysis module .

At stage each of the video segments is analyzed by comparing audience retention in a video segment to the blended audience retention. In an embodiment each of the video segments is analyzed by comparing audience retention rates in a segment to the blended audience retention for all of the video segments. For example relative retention ratios may be computed by comparing video segment audience retention rates to blended audience retention for the video segments at corresponding points in time.

In one example a video segment with an audience retention rate of 90 at a point in time would have a relative retention ratio of 2.0 as compared to a blended audience retention of 45 at the same point in time. In another example an relative retention ratio of 1.0 would mean that the audience retention rate of the video segment is equivalent to the blended audience retention rate at the same point in time. Further a relative retention ratio less than 1.0 indicates that the video segment lags behind the average audience retention for the video segments at a particular point in time. Stage may be performed by for example video analysis module .

At stage one or more audience engagement peaks are identified for the video segments. In one embodiment identification of audience engagement peaks may be based on relative retention ratios calculated for a video segment. In one example one or more of the highest relative retention ratios occurring at different ranges of time in a video segment may be identified as audience engagement peaks for the video segment e.g. the top one two or three relative retention ratios that do not coincide within a 15 second range of time . In another example audience engagement peaks also may be contingent on other criteria such as a minimum audience retention ratio a maximum number of audience engagement peaks for a video segment when an audience engagement peak occurs in a video segment duration and or slope s . Audience engagement peaks also may be identified across video segments. For example audience engagement peaks may be defined as the top three audience retention ratio values as measured within fifteen second intervals across six different video segments. Stage may be performed by for example video analysis module .

At stage one or more video clips are selected from the video segments based on the identified audience engagement peaks. In an embodiment a portion of a video associated with an identified audience engagement peak is selected as a video clip. In one example four identified engagement peaks may be used to generate a 60 second video trailer. For example four video clips that begin 10 seconds before and ends 5 seconds after each of the identified audience retention peaks may be selected to produce the 60 seconds of content for the video trailer.

In another embodiment the duration of selected video clips may be based on one or more user defined or system parameters. For example one or more parameters may specify an amount of video content to select before and or after an identified engagement peak for example to provide viewers with context. Duration of selected video clips also may be non uniform and may be based on for example a duration of an audience retention peak. Stage may be performed by for example video analysis module .

At stage a video trailer is generated by combining the selected video clips into a new video. In an embodiment selected video clips are assembled to generate a video trailer. In one example one or more visual effects may be used to transition between video clips. In another example no visual effects are used when transitioning between video clips.

In one embodiment audio associated with one or more of the selected video clips may be modified. In one example audio of a first video clip may gradually decrease as a scene is transitioned or cut over to a second video clip. At the same time audio of the second video clip may gradually increase until presented at a normal volume. The audio transition between the first video clip and the second video clip may or may not be performed proportionally. In another example audio associated with a selected video clip may be erased and replaced by different audio such as a soundtrack a voice over or other sound.

In another embodiment a summarized version of information associated with a video channel is presented in the video trailer. In one example a summarized version of information associated with a video channel is displayed with video trailer content near the end of a trailer. For example the video trailer may be reduced to a portion of the display e.g. half of the top bottom left or right side of the display and a summarized version of information associated with a video channel may be presented alongside the video trailer on the other portion of the display.

In one embodiment the summarized information associated with the video channel may include for example a number of subscribers user comments received for the channel user comments received for videos associated with the channel and comments from a user that manages the channel. In one example the summarized information is automatically generated and incorporated into the video trailer. In another example the summarized information is linked to the video trailer and dynamically updated on a regular or periodic basis. In yet another example one or more aspects of the summarized information may be selected and or provided by a user that manages the video channel.

In an embodiment one or more actionable prompts e.g. a call to action may be included in one or more locations throughout a generated video trailer. For example selectable text overlays speech bubbles notes titles hyperlinks spotlights images labels or any combination thereof may allow a viewer to access a full version of a highlighted video to subscribe to a channel to visit a related website and or to perform one or more other actions.

In one example one or more actionable prompts may be generated automatically as part of generating a video trailer. For example actionable prompts may be generated with a video trailer based on one or more pre defined templates and or one or more sets of stored instructions.

In another example one or more actionable prompts may be added to a video trailer after the video trailer has been generated. For example actionable prompts may be defined in an editor and inserted into or linked to a portion of a generated video trailer. An editor also may allow modification and removal of actionable prompts that already have been packaged or associated with a generated video trailer. Further actionable prompts may be integrated directly into a generated video trailer and or may be linked to and updated independently from the generated video trailer. Stage may be performed by for example video trailer generation module .

Method begins at stage when a request to generate a video trailer for a collection of one or more videos is received. In an embodiment request receiving module receives a user request to generate a video trailer for one or more videos associated with one or more online video channels. In one example a user may request generation of a video trailer for a single video channel. In another example a user may request generation of a video trailer for a plurality of video channels. For example a user may request generation of a video trailer for an entire category of related video channels such as cooking sports or comedy. Stage may be performed by for example request receiving module .

At stage one or more videos are selected from the collection of videos for consideration based on the user request. In one embodiment one or more videos are selected from a collection of videos based on one or more video attributes. For example video selection may be based on one or more of how many times a video has been viewed e.g. by distinct users or total views how many likes a video has received how many times users have commented about a video the words users have used to describe a video how many times users have shared a video with others how many times users have recommended a video an average rating given to a video by users video length and or how many follow on views e.g. sum or average a video has generated for a channel. Follow on views generally refer to a number of times that videos in a channel have been viewed after a user views their first video in the channel.

In an example one or more video attributes may be weighted and or combined to produce a video score. Videos may be ranked based on the score and selected for example based on a ranking or for meeting exceeding one or more thresholds. Videos also may be excluded from selection for example when not meeting or exceeding one or more thresholds. Stage may be performed by for example video selection module .

At stage one or more video segments are determined for analysis from each of the selected videos. In one embodiment video segments are unmodified versions of the selected videos. For example selected videos of uniform length or near uniform length may be compared without any further modification.

In another embodiment video segments are modified versions of the selected videos. In one example an early portion of each video is disregarded to normalize audience retention statistics across a set of videos. In another example one or more portions of a video are trimmed to produce a video segment of a standard duration for comparison with other videos of or near the standard duration. Stage may be performed by for example video analysis module .

At stage blended audience retention is computed for the video segments. In an embodiment blended audience retention is computed by averaging audience retention rates of the video segments across the duration of the video segments. Stage may be performed by for example video analysis module .

At stage the video segments are analyzed by comparing audience retention in each of the video segments to the blended audience retention computed for the video segments. In an embodiment relative retention ratio is computed throughout a video segment by comparing a video segment s audience retention rate at various points in time to blended audience retention computed for the video segments at corresponding points in time. Stage may be performed by for example video analysis module .

At stage one or more audience engagement peaks are identified in each of the video segments. In an embodiment a defined time interval is used to continuously compute audience retention across an entire video segment based on relative audience retention. In one example relative audience retention for a video segment is determined by computing an integral of relative audience retention i.e. the area under the relative retention ratio curve across a video segment in sets of continuous 15 second time intervals. Time intervals having the highest computed relative retention include audience engagement peaks in the video segment. The time interval number of audience engagement peaks to identify and spacing between audience engagement peaks may be defined as one or more of a system default system setting or user preference. Stage may be performed by for example video analysis module .

At stage one or more of the video clips are selected based on the identified audience engagement peaks. According to an embodiment one or more video clips may be selected based on a level of determined audience engagement. In another embodiment one or more video clips may be selected to provide additional content variety in a generated video trailer. Stage may be performed by for example video analysis module .

At stage one or more of the selected video clips are adjusted. In an embodiment duration of one or more selected video clips is adjusted. In one example length of a selected video clip may be extended to provide additional video content for a video trailer. In another example length of a selected video clip may be reduced.

For example a selected video clip may be further analyzed using shot boundary detection analysis to determine whether a camera shot transition occurs in the selected video clip. When a camera shot transition is detected then the selected video clip may be adjusted for example by removing the portion of the video before or after the detected event. In one example selected video clips determined to have a camera shot transition may be excluded from the video trailer. Stage may be performed by for example video analysis module .

At stage a video trailer is generated by combining the selected video clips into a new video. In one embodiment one or more video trailers are generated from the selected video clips based on a ranking of the selected video clips according to relative audience retention. In one example a minimum number of video clips are selected from one or more of the video segments to provide variety. In another example selected video clips from one or more different videos may be used to assemble different combinations video clips and thus generate multiple video trailers for consideration. Stage may be performed by for example video trailer generation model .

At stage the generated video trailer is provided to a user. In an embodiment the generated video trailer may be provided to a user for approval. In an example an approved video trailer may be provided to other users to promote one or more online video channels associated with the video trailer. Stage may be performed by for example video trailer delivery module .

The exemplary computer system includes a processing device processor a main memory e.g. read only memory ROM flash memory dynamic random access memory DRAM such as synchronous DRAM SDRAM double data rate DDR SDRAM or DRAM RDRAM etc. a static memory e.g. flash memory static random access memory SRAM etc. and a data storage device which communicate with each other via a bus .

Processor represents one or more general purpose processing devices such as a microprocessor central processing unit or the like. More particularly the processor may be a complex instruction set computing CISC microprocessor reduced instruction set computing RISC microprocessor very long instruction word VLIW microprocessor or a processor implementing other instruction sets or processors implementing a combination of instruction sets. The processor may also be one or more special purpose processing devices such as an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA a digital signal processor DSP network processor or the like. The processor is configured to execute instructions for performing the operations and steps discussed herein.

The computer system may further include a network interface device . The computer system also may include a video display unit e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD or a cathode ray tube CRT an alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard a cursor control device e.g. a mouse and a signal generation device e.g. a speaker .

The data storage device may include a computer readable storage medium on which is stored one or more sets of instructions e.g. software embodying any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The instructions may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory and or within the processor during execution thereof by the computer system the main memory and the processor also constituting computer readable storage media. The instructions may further be transmitted or received over a network via the network interface device .

In one embodiment the instructions include instructions for a video trailer generation system e.g. video trailer generation system of and or a software library containing methods that call a video trailer generation system. While the computer readable storage medium machine readable storage medium is shown in an exemplary embodiment to be a single medium the term computer readable storage medium should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more sets of instructions. The term computer readable storage medium shall also be taken to include any medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying a set of instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present disclosure. The term computer readable storage medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories optical media and magnetic media.

In the foregoing description numerous details are set forth. It will be apparent however to one of ordinary skill in the art having the benefit of this disclosure that the present disclosure may be practiced without these specific details. In some instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form rather than in detail in order to avoid obscuring the present disclosure.

Some portions of the detailed description have been presented in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on data bits within a computer memory. An algorithm is here and generally conceived to be a self consistent sequence of steps leading to a desired result. The steps are those requiring physical manipulations of physical quantities. Usually though not necessarily these quantities take the form of electrical or magnetic signals capable of being stored transferred combined compared and otherwise manipulated. It has proven convenient at times for reasons of common usage to refer to these signals as bits values elements symbols characters terms numbers or the like.

It should be borne in mind however that all of these and similar terms are to be associated with the appropriate physical quantities and are merely convenient labels applied to these quantities. Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the following discussion it is appreciated that throughout the description discussions utilizing terms such as computing comparing applying creating ranking classifying or the like refer to the actions and processes of a computer system or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and transforms data represented as physical e.g. electronic quantities within the computer system s registers and memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the computer system memories or registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices.

Certain embodiments of the present disclosure also relate to an apparatus for performing the operations herein. This apparatus may be constructed for the intended purposes or it may comprise a general purpose computer selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored in the computer. Such a computer program may be stored in a computer readable storage medium such as but not limited to any type of disk including floppy disks optical disks CD ROMs and magnetic optical disks read only memories ROMs random access memories RAMs EPROMs EEPROMs magnetic or optical cards or any type of media suitable for storing electronic instructions.

It is to be understood that the above description is intended to be illustrative and not restrictive. Many other embodiments will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reading and understanding the above description. The scope of the disclosure should therefore be determined with reference to the appended claims along with the full scope of equivalents to which such claims are entitled.

