---

title: Assistance device
abstract: An assistance device may provide a user with an identifier of an access point which is to be set in a wireless device. The assistance device may extract, from network information related to a network and stored in the assistance device, an IP address of an assignment server which had assigned an IP address to the assistance device. The assistance device may obtain from the access point, by utilizing the extracted IP address of the assignment server, information including the identifier of the access point, so as to display the information including the identifier of the access point on a display unit.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09094850&OS=09094850&RS=09094850
owner: Brother Kogyo Kabushiki Kaisha
number: 09094850
owner_city: Nagoya-shi, Aichi-ken
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20130911
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No 13 072 757 filed on Mar. 27 2011 which claims priority to Japanese Patent Application No. 2010 493349 filed on Aug. 31 2010 the contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference into the present application.

The present specification discloses an assistance device for providing a user with an identifier of an access point which is to be set in a wireless device.

In order to have a wireless device e.g. a printer participate in a wireless network including an access point a user normally sets wireless setting information including an SSID Service Set IDentifier of the access point to the wireless device. When such wireless setting is performed the wireless device normally displays a list including SSIDs of one or more access points existing around the wireless device itself. By selecting one SSID from the list the user can set the SSID to the wireless device.

For example when wireless setting is performed in a case where two or more access points exist around the wireless device the wireless device normally displays a list including two or more SSIDs. In this case a user having limited knowledge of wireless communication is unable to determine which SSID should be selected from the two or more SSIDs.

The present specification provides a technique that enables a user to easily set to a wireless device an identifier of an access point which is to be set in the wireless device.

The present specification discloses an assistance device for providing a user with an identifier of an access point which is to be set in a wireless device. The assistance device may comprise an extracting unit and a display controlling unit. The extracting unit may be configured to extract from network information related to a network and stored in the assistance device an IP address of an assignment server which had assigned an IP address to the assistance device. The display controlling unit may be configured to obtain from the access point by utilizing the extracted IP address of the assignment server information including the identifier of the access point so as to display the information including the identifier of the access point on a display unit.

Moreover a control method a computer program and a computer readable device storing the computer program for realizing the assistance device described above are also novel and useful. Furthermore a system comprising two or more devices among the assistance device described above an assignment server and an access point is also novel and useful.

The technique according to the present embodiment is applicable to systems of both a case A and a case B shown in . First a configuration of a system of the case A will be described. The system of the case A may e.g. constitute a home LAN. The system of the case A comprises an access point hereinafter referred to as an AP a printer and a PC .

The AP is connected to the Internet . The AP functions as a relay point in other words an AP for wireless communication and further has a NAT Network Address Translation function a router function and a DHCP Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol function. The NAT function is a function for executing address translation between an IP address used on the Internet in other words a global IP address and an IP address used in a LAN that includes the AP in other words a local IP address . The router function includes a filtering function and a routing function. The filtering function is a function for allowing passage of a packet in which a predetermined IP address e.g. an IP address within a range of IP addresses including a predetermined network address is designated as destination and not allowing passage of a packet in which an IP address other than the predetermined IP address is designated as destination. The routing function is a function for handing over a packet to a next router or a specific device corresponding to an IP address of a destination designated in the packet so that the packet is sent to the specific device along an optimal route. The DHCP function is a function for assigning an IP address to a device e.g. the PC connected to a LAN including the AP .

The AP further has a web server function. The web server function of the AP is a function for sending to an external device in response to a request from a web browser of the external device e.g. the PC data representing a web page including wireless setting information sometimes also referred to as a wireless profile currently being used in the AP . In the present embodiment wireless setting information in a web page includes an SSID of the AP an authentication method WPA WPA2 or the like an encryption scheme AES TKIP or the like and an encryption key in other words a password .

The printer executes printing according to data sent from an external device e.g. the PC . The printer is not yet connected to the LAN including the AP and is about to be connected to the LAN. In the present embodiment the printer is to be connected to the LAN by a wireless connection. In other words the printer is to participate in a wireless network including the AP . In order to have the printer participate in the wireless network the user must set wireless setting information currently used in the AP to the printer . Hereinafter setting in other words storing the wireless setting information to the printer will be referred to as wireless setting .

Methods for the user to perform the wireless setting on the printer include a so called automatic wireless setting mode sometimes also referred to as a easy wireless setting mode and a manual wireless setting mode. In the automatic wireless setting mode e.g. when the user operates a button provided on the AP or inputs a PIN code into the AP the AP sends the wireless setting information currently being used in the AP e.g. an SSID of the AP and an authentication method an encryption method and an encryption key currently being used in the AP to the printer . The printer sets the wireless setting information acquired from the AP as wireless setting information of the printer itself. As a result the printer can participate in the wireless network including the AP . In other words the printer can communicate with other devices via the AP by utilizing the wireless setting information that has been set in the printer itself.

On the other hand in the manual wireless setting mode the printer first searches for APs existing around the printer and causes a list including SSIDs of the APs that have been found to be displayed on a display unit not shown of the printer . The user operates an operation unit not shown of the printer to select one SSID the SSID of the AP in this embodiment from the list. Furthermore in the manual wireless setting mode the printer normally causes a list including a plurality of combinations of authentication methods and encryption methods on the display unit of the printer . The user selects one combination of an authentication method and an encryption method from the list. Moreover in the manual wireless setting mode the user normally inputs the encryption key currently being used in the AP into the printer . The printer sets the wireless setting information selected or inputted by the user as wireless setting information of the printer itself. As a result the printer can participate in the wireless network including the AP .

As described above in the manual wireless setting mode the printer searches for the APs existing around the printer . For example when the AP constitutes a LAN in a specific home the printer may possibly find in addition to the AP an AP existing in an other home in a vicinity of the specific home. In this case the printer displays two or more SSIDs including the SSID of the AP existing in the specific home and an SSID of the AP existing in the other home. Although the user must appropriately select the SSID of the AP from the two or more SSIDs displayed on the printer if the user has only limited knowledge of wireless communication the user may find it difficult to determine which SSID should be selected. In particular in a case where construction of a wireless network including the AP had been commissioned to a professional contractor it is likely that the user is not aware of or has forgotten the SSID of the AP because the contractor may decide the SSID of the AP . In the present embodiment the PC described below is adopted in order to display information for assisting the user when the wireless setting of the printer is to be performed in the manual wireless setting mode.

The PC comprises a display unit an operation unit a wireless interface a wired interface and a controlling unit . The respective units to and are connected to a bus line . The display unit is a display for displaying various types of information. The operation unit comprises a keyboard and a mouse. By operating the operation unit a user of the PC can input various information into the PC . The wireless interface is an interface for wireless communication. The wired interface is an interface for wired communication to which a LAN cable or the like is connected. In the present embodiment the PC is connected to the wireless network including the AP by the wireless connection. In other words the wireless setting information currently being used in the AP is set to the PC and the PC is capable of communicating with other devices e.g. devices on the Internet via the AP .

The controlling unit comprises a CPU and a memory such as a ROM a RAM or the like. The CPU executes various processes according to programs and stored in the memory . Respective functions of an extracting unit and a display controlling unit are realized due to the CPU executing processes according to the programs and . Moreover the extracting unit comprises a first determination unit and the display controlling unit comprises a second determination unit .

The memory stores the browser program the support program and network information . The browser program is a program for acquiring a web page by communicating with a web server and causing the web page to be displayed on the display unit . The browser program is a known program that is installed in the PC from e.g. a medium. The support program is a program for executing first and second assistance processes to be described later. The support program is installed into the PC from a medium provided by a vendor or manufacturer of the printer a medium packaged together with the printer upon shipment of the printer . However the support program may be installed into the PC via the Internet from a server provided by the vendor or manufacturer of the printer .

The network information is information related to a network to which the PC is connected the wireless network including the AP in this embodiment . As illustrated in the network information includes an IP address of the PC information hereinafter referred to as DHCP information indicating whether or not the IP address of the PC is an IP address assigned by a DHCP server and an IP address of a DHCP server that had assigned the IP address to the PC .

The user of the PC can select whether or not a DHCP server is to be used by operating the operation unit . When using the DHCP server has been selected Enabled is stored in the memory as DHCP information . In addition when not using the DHCP server has been selected Disabled is stored in the memory as DHCP information .

When the DHCP information included in the network information indicates Enabled the DHCP server in other words the AP assigns an IP address to the PC at a predetermined timing refer to the case A shown in . In doing so the IP address assigned to the PC by the DHCP server is stored in the memory as the IP address of the PC included in the network information . Furthermore when the IP address is assigned to the PC by the DHCP server an IP address of the DHCP server in other words the IP address of the AP is sent from the DHCP server to the PC . In doing so the IP address of the DHCP server is stored in the memory as the IP address of the DHCP server included in the network information .

On the other hand when the DHCP information included in the network information indicates Disabled the DHCP server does not assign an IP address to the PC . Normally the user of the PC operates the operation unit to input into the PC an IP address in other words a fixed static IP address that should be set as the IP address of the PC . In doing so the IP address input to the PC by the user is stored in the memory as the IP address of the PC included in the network information . Moreover in this case the IP address of the DHCP server is not included in the network information .

Similar to the system of the case A the system of the case B may e.g. constitute a home LAN. The system of the case B comprises a router an AP a printer and a PC . The router is connected to the Internet and also to the AP by a wired connection. The router has the NAT function the router function and the DHCP function.

The AP functions as a relay point in other words an AP for wireless communication and further has the router function and the DHCP function. Moreover similar to the AP of the case A the AP further has a web server function.

The printer is not yet connected to a LAN including the AP and is about to be connected to the LAN. In addition the PC is connected to the AP by a wireless connection. Moreover configurations of the printer and the PC are the same as those in the case A.

Although only a single AP is connected to the router in the system of the case B in a plurality of APs can be connected to the router . In other words while only a single AP exists in the system of the case A the number of APs can be increased in the system of the case B. Therefore compared to the system of the case A a greater number of devices PCs printers and the like can participate in the wireless network in the system of the case B.

In the system of the case B both the router and the AP have the DHCP function. An administrator of the system in other words a user of the printer and the PC normally turn on the DHCP function of the muter and turn off the DHCP function of the AP . In this case the router assigns an IP address to the PC refer to a case B 1 in . Therefore in this case the IP address of the router is stored in the memory of the PC as the IP address of the DHCP server included in the network information .

However there may be a case where both the DHCP function of the router and the DHCP function of the AP are turned on In this case the router may assign an IP address to the PC refer to a case B 2 1 in and the AP may also assign an IP address to the PC refer to a case B 2 2 in . In the former case the IP address of the router is stored in the memory of the PC as the IP address of the DHCP server included in the network information . In the latter case the IF address of the AP is stored in the memory of the PC as the IP address of the DHCP server included in the network information .

Next contents of processes executed by the PC according to the support program will be described. Moreover the respective processes below may be executed in systems of both the case A and the case B. When a user desires to have the printer participate in the wireless network the user operates the operation unit of the PC and activates the support program . In this case according to the support program the controlling unit of the PC first executes the first assistance process shown in .

In the first assistance process in S the first determination unit acquires the DHCP information in other words Enabled or Disabled from the network information in the memory . In the present embodiment in S the first determination unit refer to utilizes a specific API Application Programming Interface prepared in an OS program. In other words by activating the specific API the first determination unit causes the specific API to acquire the network information in the memory and then acquires the DHCP information from the network information acquired by the specific API.

Alternatively in a modification thereof in S the first determination unit may acquire the network information in the memory by executing an IPConfig command instead of utilizing the specific API. In other words generally speaking the network information may be information equivalent to information acquired using the IPConfig command.

Next in S the first determination unit determines whether or not the DHCP information acquired in S indicates Enabled . In other words in S the first determination unit determines whether or not the current IP address of the PC is the IP address assigned by the DHCP server e.g. the AP in the case A .

In a case where a determination is made that the DHCP information indicates Disabled in other words in a case where a determination is made that the current IP address of the PC is not the IP address assigned by the DHCP server in a case of NO in S in S the display controlling unit refer to causes to be displayed on the display unit a message indicating that wireless setting information cannot be displayed. Upon conclusion of S the first assistance process ends.

On the other hand in a case where a determination is made that the DHCP information indicates Enabled in other words in a case where a determination is made that the current IP address of the PC is the IP address assigned by the DHCP server in a case of YES in S in S the extracting unit refer to extracts the IP address of the DHCP server from the network information acquired in S. As a result the IP address of the DHCP server that had assigned the current IP address of the PC e.g. the AP in the case A is extracted.

Next in S the display controlling unit activates the browser program by utilizing the IP address of the DHCP server extracted in S. In other words the display controlling unit instructs the browser program to send a request packet for requesting a web page with the IP address of the DHCP server extracted in S as destination. The respective processes carried out until issuing the above instruction to the browser program are realized by the support program .

Processes after the above instruction is issued to the browser program in S are executed by the display controlling unit that is realized by the browser program . In other words the display controlling unit sends a request packet in other words a signal for requesting wireless setting information including an SSID of an AP to be set to the printer for requesting a web page e.g. a top page with the IP address of the DHCP server extracted in S as destination.

For example in the system of the case A as shown in the case A in the IP address is assigned to the PC by the DHCP server configured integrally with the AP . Therefore the IP address of the DHCP server extracted in S is the IP address of the AP . Therefore when the request packet is sent from the PC in S in the AP receives the request packet and activates the web server function. As a result the web server function of the AP sends to the PC data representing a web page including the wireless setting information currently being used in the AP e.g. the SSID of the AP and the authentication method the encryption method and the encryption key currently being used in the AP . The display controlling unit of the PC causes the web page represented by the data acquired from the AP to be displayed on the display unit . As a result as shown in S in the SSID of the AP abcdefgh the authentication method WPA PSK the encryption method TKIP and the encryption key 12345678 are displayed on the display unit . Therefore the user is able to learn the wireless setting information currently being used in the AP .

In addition e.g. in the system of the case B as shown in the case B 2 2 in the IP address is assigned to the PC by a DHCP server configured integrally with the AP . In this case the IP address of the DHCP server extracted in S is the IP address of the AP . Therefore when the request packet is sent from the PC in S in the AP receives the request packet and activates the web server function. Subsequent processes are the same as those in the case A. Therefore the user is able to learn the wireless setting information currently being used in the AP . Upon conclusion of S the first assistance process ends.

When the wireless setting information currently being used in the AP or AP is displayed on the display unit of the PC the user operates the operation unit not shown of the printer so as to perform the wireless setting on the printer . Specifically when a predetermined operation is executed on the operation unit of the printer the printer causes a message prompting a selection of one mode of the automatic wireless setting mode and the manual wireless setting mode to be displayed on the display unit of the printer . The user can operate the operation unit of the printer to select the manual wireless setting mode.

When the manual wireless setting mode is selected as described above the printer searches for the APs existing around the printer and causes the list including the SSIDs of the APs that have been found to be displayed on the display unit of the printer . The user is aware of the SSID abcdefgh displayed on the display unit of the PC in S in . Therefore assuming that a plurality of SSIDs e.g. the SSID of the AP existing in the home of the user and the SSID of the AP existing in the other home is displayed on the display unit of the printer the user is able to select an SSID of an AP to be set to the printer in other words the SSID displayed in S in e.g. the SSID of the AP existing in the home of the user from the plurality of SSIDs.

Furthermore in the present embodiment by referring to the web page displayed in S in the user is able to learn the authentication method WPA PSK the encryption method TKIP and the encryption key 12345678 . Therefore the user is able to select a single combination displayed on the display unit of the printer in S in among a plurality of combinations of authentication methods and encryption methods. Furthermore if needed if a combination of an authentication method and an encryption method that requires an encryption key is selected the user inputs the encryption key in the web page displayed in S of into the printer . Accordingly the wireless setting is appropriately performed on the printer .

By executing the first assistance process the PC can provide the user with the wireless setting information to be set to the printer in the case A or in the case B 2 2. A user having limited knowledge of wireless communication can easily set the wireless setting information displayed by the PC to the printer . As a result the user can have the printer participate in the wireless network in an appropriate manner.

In the case B 1 or the case B 2 1 shown in the IP address is assigned to the PC by the DHCP server in other words the router configured separately with the AP . Therefore the IP address of the DHCP server extracted in S in is not the IP address of the AP but the IP address of the router . Consequently with the case B 1 or the case B 2 1 in S in the display controlling unit sends the request packet with the IP address of the router as destination and as a result the data representing the web page including the wireless setting information currently being used in the AP cannot be acquired. Therefore in the case B 1 or the case B 2 1 useful information in other words the wireless setting information to be set to the printer is not displayed in S in . In consideration of such cases the PC according to the present embodiment further adopts the following configuration.

After S in is executed the display controlling unit causes a message to be displayed on the display unit which prompts the user to select whether or not a further assistance process is to be executed. Therefore when the useful information is not displayed e.g. in the case B 1 or the case B 2 1 the user can select the further assistance process to be executed. In this case the controlling unit further executes the second assistance process shown in . S to S in are the same as S to S in . In addition S that is executed in a case of NO in S is the same as S in .

In S the display controlling unit surveys a communication path by utilizing the IP address of the DHCP server acquired in S. Specifically the display controlling unit sends an ICMP Internet Control Message Protocol packet by utilizing a specific API for performing a path survey in which the IP address of the DHCP server acquired in S has been designated as destination. The specific API is provided by the OS program. Alternatively in a modification thereof in S the display controlling unit may send the ICMP packet by executing a path survey command e.g. a command equivalent to a traceroute command or a tracert command instead of utilizing the specific API.

Moreover as well known the ICMP packet includes an IP header in which a TTL Time To Live can be set. Whenever an ICMP packet passes a single router 1 is subtracted from the TTL. When the ICMP packet sent from the PC reaches the target destination in the present embodiment the IP address of the DHCP server acquired in S before the TTL becomes 0 the target destination sends a reply packet to the PC . On the other hand when the TTL becomes 0 before the ICMP packet sent from the PC reaches the target destination a router that had subtracted the TTL to 0 sends an error packet to the PC . In other words TTL is a value related to the number of hops that is the number of routers through which an ICMP packet is able to pass.

In the present embodiment when executing a first path survey the display controlling unit sets the TTL inside the ICMP packet to 1 . For example in the case B 1 or the case B 2 1 refer to the IP address of the DHCP server acquired in S is not the IP address of the AP but the IP address of the router . Therefore when the display controlling unit sends a first ICMP packet by setting the IP address of the DHCP server acquired in S as destination and by setting the TTL to 1 the first ICMP packet initially arrives at the AP . Since the AP is equipped with the router function 1 is subtracted from the TTL in other words 1 . As a result the TTL becomes 0 and the AP sends the error packet to the PC .

Upon acquiring the error packet the display controlling unit increases the TTL by just 1 and executes a second path survey. In other words the display controlling unit sends a second ICMP packet by setting the IP address of the DHCP server acquired in S as destination and by setting the TTL to 2 . In the case B 1 or the case B 2 1 refer to the AP subtracts 1 from the TTL in other words 2 included in the second ICMP packet. Furthermore the AP sends the second ICMP packet to the router . As a result the second ICMP packet reaches the router . Therefore the router sends a reply packet to the PC and the display controlling unit of the PC acquires the reply packet. Once the reply packet is acquired the communication path survey the process of S ends. Moreover the reply packet that is sent from the router to the PC includes the IP address of the router in other words the IP address of the DHCP server acquired in S as an IP address corresponding to the number of hops 2 in other words an IP address of a second device on the communication path as viewed from the PC and the IP address of the AP as an IP address corresponding to the number of hops 1 in other words an IP address of a first device on the communication path as viewed from the PC .

Moreover when the display controlling unit is unable to acquire the reply packet even after sending the second and subsequent ICMP packets in other words when the display controlling unit receives the error packet the display controlling unit sends a third and subsequent ICMP packets by increasing the TTL by 1 until the reply packet is acquired.

Moreover as described above in the case A or the case B 2 2 the useful information is displayed in S in the first assistance process shown in . Therefore the user normally does not select execution of the second assistance process after the first assistance process is conclude However even in the case A or the case B 2 2 the user may select execution of the second assistance process after the first assistance process is concluded. In this case the following operations are executed in S of the second assistance process shown in .

Specifically in the case A or the case B 2 2 the IP address of the DHCP server acquired in S is the IP address of the AP or the AP . Therefore when the display controlling unit sends the first ICMP packet the first ICMP packet reaches the AP or the AP without traveling through a router. Consequently the AP or AP sends the reply packet to the PC and the display controlling unit of the PC acquires the reply packet and ends the survey of the communication path the process of S . Moreover the reply packet that is sent from the AP or the AP to the PC includes the IP address of the AP or the AP in other words the IP address of the DHCP server acquired in S as the IP address corresponding to the number of hops 1.

After conclusion of S the second assistance process proceeds to S. In S the second determination unit refer to utilizes the reply packet acquired in S to determine whether or not the AP configured separately with the DHCP server that had assigned the IP address to the PC may exist on the communication path between the PC and the DHCP server. Specifically when the reply packet acquired in S includes only the IP address corresponding to the number of hops 1 the second determination unit determines that the AP configured separately with the DHCP server does not exist on the communication path the second determination unit makes a determination of YES in S . On the other hand when the reply packet acquired in S includes not only an IP address corresponding to the number of hops 1 but also an IP address corresponding to the number of hops 2 the second determination unit determines that an AP configured separately with the DHCP server may exist on the communication path the second determination unit makes a determination of NO in S .

For example in the case A or the case B 2 2 refer to the reply packet acquired in S includes only an IP address corresponding to the number of hops 1 in other words the IP address of the AP or AP . Therefore in the case A or the case B 2 2 the second determination unit determines that an AP configured separately with the DHCP server does not exist on the communication path between the PC and the DHCP server in other words makes the determination of YES in S and proceeds to S. S is the same as S in . In other words in the case A the wireless setting information currently being used in the AP is displayed on the display unit and in the case B 2 2 the wireless setting information currently being used in the AP is displayed on the display unit . Upon conclusion of S the second assistance process ends.

On the other hand e.g. in the case B 1 or the case B 2 1 refer to the reply packet acquired in S includes the IP address corresponding to the number of hops 1 in other words the IP address of AP and the IP address corresponding to the number of hops 2 in other words the IP address of router . Therefore in the case B 1 or the case B 2 1 the second determination unit determines that the AP configured separately with the DHCP server may exist on the communication path between the PC and the DHCP server in other words makes the determination of NO in S and proceeds to S.

In S the display controlling unit acquires the IP address of the AP by acquiring the IP address corresponding to the number of hops 1 from the reply packet acquired in S. Next in S the display controlling unit activates the browser program by utilizing the IP address acquired in S. In other words the display controlling unit instructs the browser program to send the request packet for requesting the web page with the IP address of the AP acquired in S as destination. Moreover similar to the case of the first assistance process processes after the above instruction is issued to the browser program in S are executed by the display controlling unit that is realized by the browser program .

As described above in the case B 1 or the case B 2 1 refer to the IP address acquired in S is the IP address of the AP . Therefore when the request packet is sent from the PC in S the AP sends data representing the web page including the wireless setting information currently being used in the AP to the PC . The display controlling unit causes the web page represented by the data acquired from the AP to be displayed on the display unit . As a result the user can learn the wireless setting information currently being used in the AP . The wireless setting of the printer to be subsequently executed is the same as in the case of the first assistance process.

According to the present embodiment e.g. in the case A the PC acquires the wireless setting information from the AP by utilizing the IP address of the DHCP server configured integrally with the AP S in S in . In addition in the case B the PC acquires the wireless setting information from the AP by utilizing the IP address of the DHCP server configured integrally with the AP S in S in . Furthermore in the case B 1 or the case B 2 1 the PC acquires the IP address of the AP by executing the survey of the communication path by utilizing the IP address of the DHCP server configured separately with the AP S in and acquires wireless setting information from the AP by utilizing the IP address of the AP S in . Therefore according to the present embodiment in any of the cases the PC is capable of acquiring wireless setting information including the SSID of the AP or the AP to be set to the printer by utilizing the IP address of the DHCP server that had assigned the IP address to the PC and causing the wireless setting information to be displayed on the display unit . Consequently the user can easily set appropriate wireless setting information e.g. the wireless setting information currently being used in the AP existing in the home of the user to the printer .

In addition according to the present embodiment since the survey of the communication path is executed in S of the second assistance process shown in the PC is able to appropriately determine whether or not the AP having the router function may exist between the PC itself and the DHCP server that had assigned the IP address to the PC S in . Moreover the PC is capable of appropriately acquiring the IP address of the AP configured separately with the DHCP server based on the result of the communication path survey in other words the reply packet S in .

The PC and the printer are respectively examples of an assistance device and a wireless device . The DHCP information included in the network information is an example of specific information . In addition the request packet sent in S in or S in and the request packet sent in S in are respectively examples of a first signal and a second signal . The ICMP packet sent in S in and the reply packet in response to the ICMP packet are respectively examples of a specific signal and a reply signal .

 First modification While the PC is adopted as an example of the assistance device in the above embodiment a server a printer a scanner a facsimile a mobile phone a PDA or the like may be adopted instead.

 Second modification While the printer is adopted as an example of the wireless device in the above embodiment a PC a server .a scanner a facsimile a mobile phone a PDA or the like may be adopted instead.

 Third modification While the DHCP server is adopted as an example of an assignment server in the above embodiment a BOOTP Bootstrap Protocol server may be adopted instead.

 Fourth modification While the AP has a router function in the system of the case A shown in in the above embodiment alternatively the AP need not be equipped with the router function. Generally speaking an access point may be an access point having the router function sometimes referred to as a wireless router or may be an access point not having the router function sometimes referred to as a wireless bridge .

 Fifth modification While the SSID is adopted as an example of an identifier of an access point in the above embodiment an ESSID Extended Service Set Identifier may be adopted instead.

 Sixth modification The AP or the AP and the PC may be connected by a wired connection. In other words generally speaking the assistance device and the access point may be connected to each other so as to be mutually capable of communicating.

 Seventh modification In the above embodiment a configuration is adopted in which upon conclusion of S of the first assistance process shown in an inquiry is made to the user regarding whether or not the second assistance process shown in is to be executed. Alternatively an inquiry may be made to the user before executing the first assistance process regarding which of the first assistance process and the second assistance process is to be executed. According to this configuration e.g. the user who is aware that the system of the case A has been constructed can select the first assistance process and the user who is aware that the system of the case B has been constructed can select the second assistance process.

 Eighth modification The support program need not be a program for realizing both the first and second assistance processes of and may be a program for realizing only the first assistance process or a program for realizing only the second assistance process. In other words generally speaking the assistance device need only be capable of executing at least either the first assistance process or the second assistance process. Both of the assistance processes are capable of realizing a configuration to obtain from the access point by utilizing the extracted IP address of the assignment server information including the identifier of the access point so as to display the information including the identifier of the access point on a display unit .

 Ninth modification In the above embodiment in S in S in and S in when the request packet is sent from the PC the AP or the AP sends the data representing the web page including all of the SSID the authentication method the encryption method and the encryption key. However the AP or AP may send data representing a web page at least including the SSID and not including all of or a part of other information the authentication method the encryption method and the encryption key . In other words whether or not to send all of or a part of the authentication method the encryption method and the encryption key in addition to the SSID may be dependent on an AP type. In a configuration of the present modification similarly the PC can acquire at least the SSID and cause the SSID to be displayed on the display unit . Generally speaking information including the identifier of the access point includes at least the identifier of the access point and may or may not include other information an authentication method an encryption method and an encryption key .

 Tenth modification In the above embodiment in the case of NO in S in in other words in the case of a value of the number of hops being greater than the display controlling unit activates the web browser by utilizing the IP address of the AP . Alternatively in the case of NO in S in the display controlling unit may end the second assistance process without activating the web browser. In both the above embodiment and the present modification in the case of NO in S in the display controlling unit does not send the request packet with the IP address of the DHCP server included in the network information as the destination. In other words generally speaking in a second case where a determination is made that the access point having the router function may exist on the communication path the display controlling unit need not send a signal with the extracted IP address of the assignment server as destination. According to this configuration in the case of not being able to acquire the identifier of the access point transmission of the signal with the extracted IP address of the assignment server as destination can be inhibited. In other words wasteful transmission of signals can be reduced and an increase in communication load of the network can be suppressed.

 Eleventh modification Moreover the functions of the respective units and in the above embodiment may be realized by software as in the above embodiment. However at least a part of units and may be realized by hardware such as a logic circuit.

