---

title: Likelihood-based personalized  navigation system and method
abstract: A system may be configured to provide a user interface on a mobile device for a social network having a plurality of functions. The system may include a display, configured to display a representation of each of a subset of the plurality of functions, wherein each function of the subset is implementable upon selection of a representation corresponding to the function by a user and a processor, configured to dynamically generate the subset of the plurality of functions based, at least in part, on a likelihood for each of the functions that the user will select a corresponding representation. The display may be configured to display the subset as dynamically generated.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09189139&OS=09189139&RS=09189139
owner: LinkedIn Corporation
number: 09189139
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130523
---
This application claims the benefit of priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 806 221 filed Mar. 28 2013 titled USER INTERFACE FOR PERSONALIZED NAVIGATION which is incorporated herein in its entirety.

This application is a continuation in part under 35 U.S.C. 120 of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 853 948 filed Mar. 29 2013 titled Providing a Personalized Navigation Experience in a Mobile Application which is incorporated herein in its entirety.

Contemporary social networks display content from a variety of sources. Member profiles user messages and comments information from groups and companies advertisements and the like may combine to create the overall content that constitutes at least some of the content that may be displayed on a user interface to users of the social network. Certain types of content may tend to be accessed by various users more or less frequently than by other users.

Example methods and systems are directed to the generation of a personalized navigation system. Examples merely typify possible variations. Unless explicitly stated otherwise components and functions are optional and may be combined or subdivided and operations may vary in sequence or be combined or subdivided. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth to provide a thorough understanding of example embodiments. It will be evident to one skilled in the art however that the present subject matter may be practiced without these specific details.

Functions related to social networks may be provided to users of the social network according to a variety of different formats. Such functions may include the display of news and other information personal and or professional information related to members of the social network information related to groups and organizations associated with the social network messages between members of the social network and updates related to activities and uses of the social network. For instance information displayed on a user device having a relatively large visual display such as a personal computer a table computer and so forth may provide relatively substantial amounts of information on a single screen such as a home screen. Such home screens may include social network information as well as a variety of menus and links to screens related to specific types of content. For instance a representation of a function such as an icon link or other visual representation of the function may be displayed that allows the function to be accessed such as by opening a new webpage or starting an application. Owing to the large display area relatively large amounts of information may be displayed without creating undue clutter and or confusion on the part of the user.

By contrast functions or representations of functions displayed on relatively small visual displays such as on mobile devices including smartphones personal digital assistants PDA and the like may be relatively constricted. Placing large amounts of information on a small screen may lead to difficulty on the part of users in finding and accessing information or functions that they are seeking and or may result in relatively poor visual aesthetics. Consequently it may be relatively more significant to determine what kind of information menus and or links should be displayed on user devices that conventionally have relatively small visual displays than may be the case for user devices that conventionally have relatively large visual displays. However it is to be understood that the principles that may be applied to the organization and display of information menus and links on a small screen may be applied to large displays so as to result in similar organizational and aesthetic advantages.

A social network user interface has been developed along with a process for providing the user interface on user devices. The user interface may be primarily adapted for display on a mobile device but may be applied equally well to user devices with relatively large visual displays. The user interface may incorporate the ability of a user to select individual functions of the social network. Certain of the functions and or representations of functions displayed on the user interface for selection by the user may be presented without respect to user interaction with the social network such as certain core functions that are displayed on the user interface of some or all of the users of the social network. Conversely certain of the functions and or representations of functions may be dynamically displayed on the user interface based on user interaction with the social network. The process for providing the user interface may take note of user interaction with the social network such as what functions the user either utilizes the most or has deliberately selected for display on the user interface and display those functions accordingly based on predefined rules. Consequently the user interface may provide both static functions to all or a group users and dynamic functions based on the conduct and preferences of the individual users to which the user interface is provided.

The social network server may be communicatively coupled to the network . The server may be an individual server or a cluster of servers and may be configured to perform activities related to serving the social network such as storing social network information processing social network information according to scripts and software applications transmitting information to present social network information to users of the social network and receive information from users of the social network. The server may include one or more electronic data storage devices such as a hard drive and may include a processor . The social network server may store information related to members of the social network. For instance for an individual person the member s information may include name age gender profession location activities likes and dislikes and so forth. For an organization such as a company the information may include name offered products for sale available job postings organizational interests forthcoming activities and the like.

The server includes a user interface engine . The user interface engine may include or be provisioned by the processor and electronic storage devices of the server . The user interface engine may generate a user interface that may be unique to each user and or user device of the social network .

The front end of the social network server consists of the user interface engine e.g. a web server which receives requests from various client computing devices and communicates appropriate responses to the requesting client devices. For example the user interface module s may receive requests in the form of Hypertext Transport Protocol HTTP requests or other web based application programming interface API requests. The application logic layer includes various function server modules which in conjunction with the user interface engine s generates various user interfaces e.g. web pages with data retrieved from various data sources in the data layer. With some embodiments individual function server modules are used to implement the functionality associated with various first functions and second functions of the system . As will be discussed in detail herein the first functions may be configured to be statically displayed on a visual display while the second functions may be configured to be dynamically displayed on the visual display . An ability to identify second functions that may be dynamically displayed on a visual display of a user device of a particular user may be a service implemented in an independent function server module .

The data layer may include electronic data storage that includes one or more databases such as a database for storing user data such as user characteristics and information related to social network functions such as interest groups companies advertisements events news discussions text posts short form posts questions and answers and so forth accessed by each user. The social network information may include a date and time at which particular social network functions were accessed or otherwise utilized by the user. In some examples the user interface engine operates in the background e.g. in an offline configuration without the need to access the network based on information already stored in the database .

In various examples when a person initially registers to become a member of the system the person may optionally be prompted to provide some personal information such as his or her name age such as by birth date gender interests contact information home town address the names of the member s spouse and or family users educational background such as schools majors etc. employment history skills professional organizations and so on. This information may be stored for example in the database .

Once registered a member may invite other users or be invited by other users to connect via the system . A connection may involve a bi lateral agreement by the users such that both users acknowledge the establishment of the connection. Similarly with some embodiments a user may elect to follow another user. In contrast to establishing a connection the concept of following another user typically is a unilateral operation in some examples does not require acknowledgement or approval by the user that is being followed. When one user follows another the user who is following may receive automatic notifications about various activities undertaken by the user being followed.

The system may provide a broad range of other functions that allow user the opportunity to share and receive information often customized to the interests of the user. In some examples the system may include a photo sharing application that allows users to upload and share photos with other users. In some examples users may be able to self organize into groups or interest groups organized around a subject matter or topic of interest. With some embodiments users may subscribe to or join groups affiliated with one or more companies. For instance with some embodiments users of the system may indicate an affiliation with a company at which they are employed such that news and events pertaining to the company are automatically communicated to the users. In some examples users may be allowed to subscribe to receive information concerning companies other than the company with which they are employed.

In various examples the user interface engine such as in conjunction with the function server module and based on information from the database may generate a user interface unique to each user of the system . The user interface as disclosed herein may include representations of first functions of the social network that are displayed without respect to the way in which the particular user of the social network actually utilizes the social network. Such representations of first functions may in various examples be static with respect to some or all users of the social network. The user interface may further include representations of second functions that are dynamically provided to the individual user of the social network based on prior user interaction with the social network such as may be recorded in the database . The second functions may be provided dynamically based on a likelihood that the user will select the functions.

At for a user of the social network a filter of one or more functions may be assessed for frequency or pulse with which the user has accessed a particular function in the past. The frequency may be over a predetermined time period such as a preceding three month time period. In an example the functions may be filtered based on meeting a frequency threshold.

At for the user the overall usage or amplitude may be determined by summing a number of uses of the function and the number of actions every time the function is used. In an example the functions that first pass the second threshold may be considered for overall usage. In an example a threshold may be applied for overall usage.

At the results for frequency and overall usage are normalized based on expected frequency with functions that are expected to have high use normalized down and functions that are expected to have low use normalized up. For instance a function that displays news updates may be expected to be visited at least daily while a function that displays job postings may be expected to be visited weekly. Thus the frequency of a user who visits the updates function daily may be normalized to be the same as the frequency of a user who visits the jobs function weekly. Normalization may be equally applicable to overall usage or amplitude in that an overall usage of an update function may be expected to involve dozens of user selections of or interactions with news items while usage of a jobs posting function may be expected to involve two to four user selections or interactions.

At a threshold for adding representations of functions see below may be set or adjusted. In various examples to add a function to a user interface may require a certain minimum usage threshold for the function . For instance a user may need to access the function at least once per week in order to pass the threshold to add the function to the user interface. Additional or alternative thresholds are contemplated. Further the same or a different threshold may be applied to remove a function from the user interface. For instance while a function may be added based on a threshold of one use per week a function may be removed from the user interface based on being used less frequently than once per month. Alternative removal thresholds are contemplated.

In various examples the threshold may serve in place of normalization at . In an example the threshold may be set us that an access of the function in each of three consecutive predetermined time periods or intervals or on seven days over a period of six predetermined time periods or intervals. In such an example the threshold may be low enough that normalization may be superfluous. In various examples however normalization is utilized notwithstanding a relatively low threshold.

At a user validation may be obtained from a selection box see below upon which a representation may be added to a function selection screen see below . Alternatively the representation may be added without respect to a user validation. The process may then return to assessing for frequency providing a feedback loop for updating the functions presented on the user interface based on use of the social network.

The first representations and the second representations are selectable by a user of the user device to select a corresponding first or second function as appropriate. For instance where the user device includes a touchscreen the user may tap the touchscreen on or proximate the representation to access the corresponding function . Other selection mechanisms known in the art may be utilized such as with a mouse and cursor.

The first representations may be displayed on the function selections screen without respect to interaction by the user with first functions of the social network. Thus the process with respect to the frequency amplitude threshold and so forth described in detail herein may not be utilized with respect to the first representations . Rather the first representations may be static on the function selections screen and may be displayed without respect to actions by the user. Such first functions may include functions such as notifications messages updates and a profile of the user.

The second representations may be displayed dynamically on the function selections screen based on the use of the social network by the user and the process . As noted above such second functions may be functions that are relatively likely to be selected by the user or are functions that the user may be relatively likely to want to select. In the illustrated example the second functions are People You May Know jobs and companies.

The user of the social network may in certain examples be enabled to change the screen position of the second representations . For instance a user may select one or more of the second representations for repositioning by holding a select command on the second representation for for instance two 2 or more seconds whereupon the second representation may be repositionable. Upon becoming repositionable the second representation may be dragged and dropped to its preferred position. The user interface engine may note the change in location of the second representation and save the setting.

The function selections screen further includes a selection representation for the user to select one or more of the second representations for display on the function selections screen . By selecting the Add Shortcut representation the user may be presented with a list of second functions that may be added among the second representations . In various examples if a user adds a particular second function the representation corresponding to the second function as added is displayed on the function selections screen while representations corresponding to other functions such as those corresponding to functions selected by way of the process may be removed from the function selections screen .

Alternatively or additionally the second functions may be weighted and corresponding representations displayed on the function selections screen accordingly. In an example each second function is weighted according to whether the second function was added by the user by way of the representation . In an example a function added by the user may be weighted relatively highly while a function not added by the user may be weighted relatively lowly. The weight may be applied against the likelihood as determined by the process . Thus a representation of a function with a low likelihood of being selected according to the process may nevertheless be displayed on the function selections screen if the user has added the function using the adding representation . By contrast a representation of a function with a relatively high likelihood as determined by the process may not be displayed on the function selections screen if the user has added several other functions already.

The weight of a function added with the representation may be a decaying weight. In other words the weight may be high initially but if the user does not subsequently utilize the function after the corresponding representation has be added on the function selections screen the weight may decline so that another second function with a higher likelihood may ultimately replace the previously added second function with the lower likelihood. In that way after a period of time such as several weeks a function that was added to the function selections screen by a user but then not subsequently heavily utilized may ultimately be replaced notwithstanding the user having deliberately added the function . It is noted that reducing the weight does not inherently remove a function and corresponding representation . Rather reducing weight may merely increase a likelihood that another function will eventually replace the function in question.

The function selections screen further includes a slide screen that corresponds to one of the functions . As illustrated the slide screen corresponds to the updates function representation A as denoted by the arrow . The slide screen may show a currently active function while the functions displayed on the function selections screen may be functions that are either the currently active function or functions that may be activated by the user as disclosed herein.

As illustrated the selection box includes a prompt for adding the shortcut in which the user is asked if the user would like to add the second representation A. Alternatively the selection box may be a ratification for a second representation A that has already been added. In such an example the selection box may display text such as You use function X often and a shortcut has been added. Would you like to keep the shortcut and allow the user to select to keep or not keep the shortcut. Further alternatively a second representation A may be added and rather than providing a selection for the user a user may simply receive a text notification such as in a box similar to the selection box notifying the user of the addition of the second representation A but not providing a selection to approve or reject the addition of the second representation A. Further alternatively a user may not be notified of the second representation A.

As illustrated in the second representations include both category or branch representations B and individual or leaf representations C. Category representations B may correspond to multiple individual functions . Thus the Groups representation B may lead to a page that shows multiple individual groups. By contrast the Business Review representation C may pertain to a specific individual group by that name.

The associated images may be static and display a permanent or semi permanent image associated with the notifications . For instance an image associated with a notification related to a particular person or company may be an image of the person or the company s logo respectively. While such an image may change from time to time the image may not be expected to update without refreshing the function implementation screen.

By contrast the image may be a live image that may incorporate information related to the notification that may include animation or information that regularly changes or updates. A changing image may provide teasers for associated content such as by stepping or rotating through images of people associated with a notification . Additionally or alternatively a changing image may change based on changes to the associated notification . For instance if the notification is related to a location the image may update regularly based on a change in the location without having to update the function implementation screen as a whole. In various examples live images may be applied to any image or graphic displayed on the user device with respect to the social network. For instance the image of the updates representation of may include teasers for the content that may be arrived at in the updates screen such as by rotating through the images that are ultimately displayed on the update screen .

At a first representation of a first function of the plurality of functions is displayed the first representation being selectable by a user to implement the first function the first representation being displayed on the function selection screen without respect to a user interaction with the social network. In an example the first representation is fixedly positioned on the function selections screen.

At a second representation of a second function of the plurality of functions is displayed the second representation being selectable by the user to implement the second function the second representation being dynamically displayed on the function selection screen based on a likelihood of the user to select the second representation. In an example the likelihood is based at least in part on a prior interaction by the user with the social network. In an example the prior interaction with the social network is via at least one of the user interface for the mobile device and a user interface for a computer the user interface for the mobile device being different than the user interface for the computer. In an example the user interface for the mobile device has a first display area and the user interface for the computer has a second display area larger than the first display area. In an example the likelihood is based at least in part on a prior interaction by a second user with the social network.

At a third representation of a third function of the plurality of functions is displayed the third representation being selectable by the user to implement the third function the third representation being dynamically displayed on the function selection screen based on a command by the user. In an example the third representation is dynamically displayed further based on a likelihood of the user to select the third representation. In an example the second representation and the third representation are positionable on the function selection screen with respect to one another. In an example the second and third representations are positionable based on a relative likelihood of the user to select the second and third representations. In an example the second and third representations are positionable based on a user command.

In an example the third representation of the third function is selectable by the user to implement the third function the third representation being dynamically displayed on the function selection screen based on a likelihood of the user to select the third representation. In an example the second and third representations are positionable based on a relative likelihood of the user to select the second and third representations.

At a representation of each of a subset of the plurality of functions is displayed wherein each function of the subset is implementable upon selection of a representation corresponding to the function by a user.

At the subset of the plurality of functions is generated based at least in part on a likelihood for each of the functions that the user will select a corresponding representation. In an example the subset is displayed as dynamically generated. In an example the corresponding likelihood for each function is based on at least one of a consistency of selection of a function over time an amount of use of the function per selection and a minimum number of selections of the function. In an example the subset is ordered for display of the representations based at least in part on a weight of the corresponding functions of the subset. In an example the weight of each function is based on the corresponding likelihood and a user command to include the function in the subset.

In an example the function includes at least one activity and wherein the amount of use of the function is based at least in part on a number of times the at least one activity is performed per selection of the function. In an example the minimum number of selections is normalized over time among the plurality of functions. In various examples dynamically generating the subset includes periodically changing the functions of the subset based on a user interaction with the social network. In one such example the social network is interacted with via the user interface of the mobile device and via a user interface of a computer.

In various examples dynamically generating the subset includes removing a function from the subset based at least in part on the likelihood. In such an example the minimum number of selections of the function is compared against a first threshold for adding the function to the subset and a second threshold higher than the first threshold for removing the function from the subset. In another such example dynamically generating the subset includes removing the function from the subset further based at least in part on a user command to remove the function from the subset.

The machine includes a processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a radio frequency integrated circuit RFIC or any suitable combination thereof a main memory and a static memory which are configured to communicate with each other via a bus . The machine may further include a graphics display e.g. a plasma display panel PDP a light emitting diode LED display a liquid crystal display LCD a projector or a cathode ray tube CRT . The machine may also include an alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard a cursor control device e.g. a mouse a touchpad a trackball a joystick a motion sensor or other pointing instrument a storage unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker and a network interface device .

The storage unit includes a machine readable medium on which is stored the instructions e.g. software embodying any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The instructions may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory within the processor e.g. within the processor s cache memory or both during execution thereof by the machine . Accordingly the main memory and the processor may be considered as machine readable media. The instructions may be transmitted or received over a network via the network interface device .

As used herein the term memory refers to a machine readable medium able to store data temporarily or permanently and may be taken to include but not be limited to random access memory RAM read only memory ROM buffer memory flash memory and cache memory. While the machine readable medium is shown in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable medium should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database or associated caches and servers able to store instructions. The term machine readable medium shall also be taken to include any medium or combination of multiple media that is capable of storing instructions e.g. software for execution by a machine e.g. machine such that the instructions when executed by one or more processors of the machine e.g. processor cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies described herein. Accordingly a machine readable medium refers to a single storage apparatus or device as well as cloud based storage systems or storage networks that include multiple storage apparatus or devices. The term machine readable medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to one or more data repositories in the form of a solid state memory an optical medium a magnetic medium or any suitable combination thereof.

Throughout this specification plural instances may implement components operations or structures described as a single instance. Although individual operations of one or more methods are illustrated and described as separate operations one or more of the individual operations may be performed concurrently and nothing requires that the operations be performed in the order illustrated. Structures and functionality presented as separate components in example configurations may be implemented as a combined structure or component. Similarly structures and functionality presented as a single component may be implemented as separate components. These and other variations modifications additions and improvements fall within the scope of the subject matter herein.

Certain embodiments are described herein as including logic or a number of components modules or mechanisms. Modules may constitute either software modules e.g. code embodied on a machine readable medium or in a transmission signal or hardware modules. A hardware module is a tangible unit capable of performing certain operations and may be configured or arranged in a certain physical manner. In various example embodiments one or more computer systems e.g. a standalone computer system a client computer system or a server computer system or one or more hardware modules of a computer system e.g. a processor or a group of processors may be configured by software e.g. an application or application portion as a hardware module that operates to perform certain operations as described herein.

In some embodiments a hardware module may be implemented mechanically electronically or any suitable combination thereof. For example a hardware module may include dedicated circuitry or logic that is permanently configured to perform certain operations. For example a hardware module may be a special purpose processor such as a field programmable gate array FPGA or an ASIC. A hardware module may also include programmable logic or circuitry that is temporarily configured by software to perform certain operations. For example a hardware module may include software encompassed within a general purpose processor or other programmable processor. It will be appreciated that the decision to implement a hardware module mechanically in dedicated and permanently configured circuitry or in temporarily configured circuitry e.g. configured by software may be driven by cost and time considerations.

Accordingly the phrase hardware module should be understood to encompass a tangible entity be that an entity that is physically constructed permanently configured e.g. hardwired or temporarily configured e.g. programmed to operate in a certain manner or to perform certain operations described herein. As used herein hardware implemented module refers to a hardware module. Considering embodiments in which hardware modules are temporarily configured e.g. programmed each of the hardware modules need not be configured or instantiated at any one instance in time. For example where a hardware module comprises a general purpose processor configured by software to become a special purpose processor the general purpose processor may be configured as respectively different special purpose processors e.g. comprising different hardware modules at different times. Software may accordingly configure a processor for example to constitute a particular hardware module at one instance of time and to constitute a different hardware module at a different instance of time.

Hardware modules may provide information to and receive information from other hardware modules. Accordingly the described hardware modules may be regarded as being communicatively coupled. Where multiple hardware modules exist contemporaneously communications may be achieved through signal transmission e.g. over appropriate circuits and buses between or among two or more of the hardware modules. In embodiments in which multiple hardware modules are configured or instantiated at different times communications between such hardware modules may be achieved for example through the storage and retrieval of information in memory structures to which the multiple hardware modules have access. For example one hardware module may perform an operation and store the output of that operation in a memory device to which it is communicatively coupled. A further hardware module may then at a later time access the memory device to retrieve and process the stored output. Hardware modules may also initiate communications with input or output devices and may operate on a resource e.g. a collection of information .

The various operations of example methods described herein may be performed at least partially by one or more processors that are temporarily configured e.g. by software or permanently configured to perform the relevant operations. Whether temporarily or permanently configured such processors may constitute processor implemented modules that operate to perform one or more operations or functions described herein. As used herein processor implemented module refers to a hardware module implemented using one or more processors.

Similarly the methods described herein may be at least partially processor implemented a processor being an example of hardware. For example at least some of the operations of a method may be performed by one or more processors or processor implemented modules. Moreover the one or more processors may also operate to support performance of the relevant operations in a cloud computing environment or as a software as a service SaaS . For example at least some of the operations may be performed by a group of computers as examples of machines including processors with these operations being accessible via a network e.g. the Internet and via one or more appropriate interfaces e.g. an application program interface API .

The performance of certain of the operations may be distributed among the one or more processors not only residing within a single machine but deployed across a number of machines. In some example embodiments the one or more processors or processor implemented modules may be located in a single geographic location e.g. within a home environment an office environment or a server farm . In other example embodiments the one or more processors or processor implemented modules may be distributed across a number of geographic locations.

Some portions of this specification are presented in terms of algorithms or symbolic representations of operations on data stored as bits or binary digital signals within a machine memory e.g. a computer memory . These algorithms or symbolic representations are examples of techniques used by those of ordinary skill in the data processing arts to convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. As used herein an algorithm is a self consistent sequence of operations or similar processing leading to a desired result. In this context algorithms and operations involve physical manipulation of physical quantities. Typically but not necessarily such quantities may take the form of electrical magnetic or optical signals capable of being stored accessed transferred combined compared or otherwise manipulated by a machine. It is convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to such signals using words such as data content bits values elements symbols characters terms numbers numerals or the like. These words however are merely convenient labels and are to be associated with appropriate physical quantities.

Unless specifically stated otherwise discussions herein using words such as processing computing calculating determining presenting displaying or the like may refer to actions or processes of a machine e.g. a computer that manipulates or transforms data represented as physical e.g. electronic magnetic or optical quantities within one or more memories e.g. volatile memory non volatile memory or any suitable combination thereof registers or other machine components that receive store transmit or display information. Furthermore unless specifically stated otherwise the terms a or an are herein used as is common in patent documents to include one or more than one instance. Finally as used herein the conjunction or refers to a non exclusive or unless specifically stated otherwise.

